It is Thursday, July 19th, 2018 and there is so much news to get to and cover here today
on the Alex Jones show that even when Alex goes away to try to take a vacation, wild
horses cannot drag him away because the news is simply too big. Alex joins me now on the
phone. He's going to be with us at least for the first hour. Alex, I'm not sure what the
biggest news to you today is, but it is a real plethora out here and all of it's important.
Well, I mean, centrally, this is the most important thing. Just be clear, I wasn't clear
with you. I was just dealing with some family issues with my wife's family and some family
she's had that's been ill. That's what I took these few days off. I did this a few weeks
ago, but I'm going to be working here from the road and I really appreciate you and the
rest of the crew doing a superlative job. I mean, here's the headline. Trump says he'll
have another meeting with Putin, again, calls the media the enemy of the people and the
enemy of peace and says they want war. And it's absolutely true. And now the Democrats
and Republicans are saying, oh, this will keep the whole Mueller probe going more now.
So we're, we're covering it all at infowars.com. But if you go to drugsreport.com, you can
see all the headlines right there and it really breaks down the situation we're in as a culture,
as a country, as a world. This is really a extremely profound time to be alive. And
folks really do need to decide which side they're going to be on in this fight because
they are projecting everything they are on to President Trump. They are the globalists.
They're the anti-nation state people. They're the anti-prosperity folks. They want centralization
of control. They want social, they want social engineering. And if you go to drudge, it's
also also up on infowars.com. It lays out really the big picture there because Trump
looking forward to second Putin meeting. Media wants war, he says, hell to pay. White
House struggles to contain political outcry because there's so many traders in both parties
and so many cowards. Damage control and Air Force One, botch summit may protect Mueller
probe, but it's not a botch summit. They wanted him to go over there and basically say that
Russia is the enemy when clearly it's China. It's almost got control of the nation. So
true enemies of this country are using Russia as the distraction for their Benedict Arnold
level treason. A court, 500 pieces of evidence against Manafort. What new indictments reveal
about spy craft? But remember, none of it's about Russia collusion. It's about offshore
bank accounts from 15 years ago. And then the big one, Ivanka versus robots pushes jobs
for humans. What have I said? Trump was going to announce that his inauguration speech,
I just knew, a pro human future, unlocking the secrets of the universe, releasing the
secret technologies that they've developed. And the deep state doesn't want that. They're
a covetous, jealous, hateful, breakaway civilization that doesn't want that. So there's Trump working
for better deals for humans, working to build a pro human future, building up people's confidence,
building up confidence in America and free market in the world, and being a cheerleader
for humanity. And that completely and totally scares the globalists. And so they're the
outsiders. They're the enemies. They're the multinationalists. And so their biggest Achilles
heel is that they are the globalists, that they're tax exempt, that they have diplomatic
immunity, all the things we talk about. And Trump's the only one listening to common sense
and listening to what I've said. When the media is owned by foreign corporations, it
is the enemy. CNN is the enemy of the American people. MSNBC is the enemy. You listen to their
privately recorded recordings of Hillary and Obama and the WikiLeaks. It's how much they
hate Americans, how they hate Christians, how they hate gun owners, how they hate their
own constituents and call them worthless scum and baristas in their mother's basements,
that they're going to get everything free and how she sees them as slaves. Trump is
really trying to turn the engine of humanity on. And so really, they're bigger than just
enemies of the American people. They're enemies of humanity. They're enemies of progress. They're
enemies of peace. They're enemies of truth. And Trump and Putin, for two hours, 15 minutes,
they genuinely came out. You could see the report. Russia wants to not be under economic
warfare. They don't want war. They've cut their defense spending. We'll be back on the other
side. I'm Alex Jones on the road. History's happening now. Stay with us, infohorses.com.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and
carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients
you receive. There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with
carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and
outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well
they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support
recovery. Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
A lot of his supporters believe that we are the enemy of the American people and that
is really, really an awful situation. We are not the enemy of the American people. We love
the American people. We are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American
people. We love the American people. We love the American people. They came in peace. We
are not the enemy of the American people. We love the American people. This is CNN.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is Thursday. We're broadcasting worldwide. I'm from the road.
Owen Shroyer is in the Info Wars News Center in Austin, Texas. We are seeing epic history
unfold just days after the enemy of the American people, the enemy of world peace, the enemy
of prosperity, the enemy of Christians, the enemy of unborn children, the enemy of prosperity,
the globalist Chinese Communist controlled, big mega bank controlled, big college controlled,
big Hollywood filth bag controlled. Hore media complex said that Trump was a traitor for
meeting privately with which every president does with every other major leader. After
lying about what was said and done after covering up Hillary and all their collusion with the
Russians, after all of this, he came out. So look, I accept the conclusions. All these
countries meddle in each other's elections, but Russia is barely on the Richter scale.
A lot of people meddle. Hell, the US spends billions a year trying to mess with Russia.
We want prosperity. We want economic development. Russia is cutting their defense spending.
Let's not start a new Cold War with them. China is the big threat. They're the big enemy.
They come out. They ignore all that and they say, oh my God, he's been at a garner. He's
a traitor. Kill him, remove him. Just just unbelievable. It's all over the news. All
these former Obama and Hillary people, former CIA directors, deputy FBI directors, military
removing Congress from Cohen says military coup. They're the enemy folks. They're the
enemy of all this progress you already see and everything that the left always claim
they wanted peace. Trump calls media real enemy of the people and goes on to say that
mainstream media, corporate media like CNN are enemies of world peace and want war. Close
quote. While revealing the second meeting with Putin saying that he's going to meet
with him again to discuss all of these issues. The summit with Russia was a great success
except with the real enemy of the American people, the fake news media. Trump wrote.
Now they're going to spend that. He says the press is the enemy and free speech. No, he's
attacking back with free speech. They're saying he's a traitor that needs to die. They're
saying he needs to be removed by the military. He says you are the enemy, which they are.
They are the enemy. They're trying to shut me down. They're trying to shut you down.
They're having congressional hearings lying about us, what we've said and done and then
having a consensus. We need to be shut down with even the Republican congressman going
along with it. They've gotten to Matt Gates. The summit with Russia was a great success
except with the real enemy of the people, the fake news media. Trump wrote. I look forward
to our second meeting so that we can start implementing some of the many things discussed
including stopping terrorism, security for Israel, nuclear proliferation, cyber attacks,
trade, Ukraine, Middle East peace, North Korea and more. There are many answers, some easy
and some hard to these problems, but they can all be solved.
Trump likes to fix things. Trump is a pragmatist. He likes prosperity and the summit with Russia
was a great success except with the real enemy of the people, the fake news media. Proliferation,
cyber attacks, trade, we can solve it all and they are so upset because the globalists
of their own white papers and WikiLeaks everywhere else admit they have a continual crisis paradigm
of continuing to fund terrorist, to fund civil wars, to fund destabilization. Look at every
blue state area, not just in our country or blue city, but socialist, communist, authoritarian,
progressive leftist systems worldwide. They're all collapsing. They're all super bad. They're
all hopeless because that's a system of feudalism that globalists like and the tyrants have
always liked to maintain control. So we're now at the epic moment in history, the hyper-epic
moment where I'm telling you folks, it's not hype. When I say they're trying to institute
beyond a civil war, but a civil war with their idiot constituents causing an insurrection,
causing a destabilization in their own words to create a civil emergency to give cover
to the criminals that are clearly some of them in Trump's cabinet. He's surrounded.
We've got them in Congress on both parties and the deep state said you will remove Trump.
He will stop this populist insurrection because they need America, they need the United States
to hold down the rest of the world, to prop up the EU and to prop up globalist operations
in Latin America and Africa and everywhere to exploit all these countries and then use
them as political weapons with giant refugee mobs pouring in en masse. It's the Democrats
saying occupy federal buildings and shut down the borders and pull down any gates. It's
the Democrats trying to bankrupt the nation and saying they want to bankrupt the economy
to teach America to come to heal and submission. This is all public now. It's not me telling
you it 20 years ago. It's the Democrats that are trying to bankrupt the dollar. It's the
globalists that are trying to sabotage national sovereignty. They're the ones caught funding
ISIS and al-Qaeda. They're the ones that funded the Arab Spring. They're the ones that overthrew
Ukraine. They're the ones that have terrorists attacking Russia on its borders. They're the
ones trying to start a new Afghan war. They're the ones that are trying to stop trade deals
that are more fair and equitable. They're the ones that are trying to keep people poor.
They are your enemy. They are my enemy. They are the enemy. They are the enemy. And they're
going to stage false flags against themselves once they launch their violent revolution
that they're going to call a civil war towards the end of summer, end of the fall. They've
all announced it in white papers. They've got the former deputy director of the FBI
and CIA, Phil Mudd on TV saying we need a civil emergency. We need to overthrow the
president. We need the military to take his ass out. Now I've been proven 1,000 percent
correct in royal flush, absolute ace of spades every time because I've studied history. I've
studied globalists. I know how they overthrow other countries and I can read their damn
statements. I can read their statements. I can read their statements. I can read their
actions. I know an enemy wants attacking me. I know an enemy wants attacking my family.
I know an enemy foaming at the mouth to abort as many babies as it can. I know an enemy trying
to inject us with deadly vaccines filled with pathogens, declassified the brain damages.
I know that they spike our troops after they leave the military with a final round of shots
to debilitate them, that's declassified. We have a criminal deac state in control and
if we ever remove these face suckers, if we ever get oxygen back into our country, which
we're starting to see, Trump's only gotten two tentacles off our neck. We've still got
three more over our head. It's laying eggs in our guts and we've got to pull the damn
thing off and we've got to have an emergency surgery and get the embryos out of our stomach
to use an alien analogy. He has not even got the face sucker off yet and it's trying to
strangle us. He left us. He fools. He scum. He loves. Look, look, look. Coming up, I'm
going to break it down. Come to Chicago, to Portland, to San Francisco. Everyone is canceling
their conferences there. Everyone is leaving. There are piles of feces and trash and just
people running around. It's like a demon spirit. Men dressed as women with huge beards
with feces running down their legs. This is happening in Austin now too and they worship
men with beards wearing women's wigs with feces all over them and they just run around
going Satan, Satan. I mean, I've seen it myself. It's something weird. You go look at who
protested Trump. It's the same spirit and it just sucks everything down. It's a spirit
of starving children, rats everywhere, rotting garbage, globalist helicopters flying around,
landing on top 50 story buildings. They never even leave the ground level and their spirit
is they want to look down from penthouses with their $20 million helicopters and they
want to be able to look down with their binoculars and just see starving, dead, dumb people
on fluoride stumbling around with snot running out of their nose. That's what Bill Marr thinks
of you and your family. He told you he's going to have a depression and you're going to starve
in the street and he said he wants more abortion and death. He said, I hate everyone. I want
to kill everybody. And even though he tells you that, he sits there all high and mighty
trying to destroy this country and destroy this world. But the spirit of liberty is
rising and we will defeat these people. If I get angry when I think about who they are
and what they stand for, my spirit wants to crush them, doesn't yours? We got to hold
our fire and we've got to be political and we've got to expose these bastards. But only
President Trump at his level understands that we have enemies running our country that are
in full control at a certain level. We have to get back control and these are people that
enjoy hurting you and your family. We'll be right back in FullWars.com, NewsWars.com.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
bottle.
You have been lied to. My name is Kevin Schipp. I'm a former decorated CIA officer. Finally,
someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government
ever. We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled
by a shadow government. We got to get this out because just because you're awake folks
doesn't mean other people are. This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to
give them a church, to get them right now at KillingUncleSanBook.com. KillingUncleSanBook.com.
Bacon Lovers. We ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required. For a proprietary
value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center
cut, fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm
and serve. Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today
at ReadyToEatBacon.com. ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey Purified
Water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. For
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to GoBerkey.com. We're called 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. GoBerkey.com.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials and decades later we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective. It is
not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking
the activity of tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses
in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to InfoWarsLife.com and
grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products. That's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest, fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus. Real Red
Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantum product. It features the same great
formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine
boost included. A powerful Pregnantum base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one
of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products. Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend
inside, including green tea extract, your Ramante leaf extract, and more, you can get
that extra. Pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. It's got all
the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost at it. Get the Real
Red Pill Plus at InfoWarsStore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
While you're now seeing mainstream news, do everything it can to demonize Trump and
InfoWars. Where, if you were watching the newsroom on Fox today, you had commentators
on Fox say that InfoWars are holocaust deniers. Once again, never playing a clip, no proof,
no evidence, just making outlandish claim to try to demonize us. While CNN may want
to shut down, Fox might be afraid of us as competition, but regardless, that's what
they do.
Just like they say Trump-Russia collusion, Russia hacking, and then we've got the video
clips, Obama was warned about the Russian hacking in 2014 and 2016, including in congressional
hearings. They have testified on this. He stood down. That is a direct quote from his
own officials. Stand down on Russian hacking. Now they try to blame President Trump. It
shows you how fake they are. And this is why, Alex, they are the enemy of the American
people. And I think it's important for Trump to continue to hit them because they're the
visual surface enemy of the deep state that we can identify. The shadow government's
harder to identify, but the media's easy to point out and say they are the liars. Here
are the people dividing this country.
That's right. When you see MSNBC or CNN or even ABCNBC, all of them are just as bad
now. You are looking at the mouth of the deep state, the mouth of the globalist. And see,
I haven't even made the last few segments about info wars, but we're right at the center
of this. Yes, Zuckerberg came out yesterday and basically defended info wars as a good
cop-bad cop scenario. I'll talk about that in the last segment of the show. But he wasn't
really doing that. They're already censoring all libertarians, all conservatives, all
nationalists. Everybody's been dolled back 80 to 90% on Facebook, YouTube, and Google
and Twitter. They've all agreed about a year and a half ago. And they now admit that. I
told people that for years. Now they use that exact number 80%. It's more like 90% now,
but they admit 80. It's the same thing. First, they misrepresent what I said about Sandy
Hook, where I've had debates on both sides. Then they follow lawsuits to create some type
of credibility in the media about that. Then they have congressional hearings and say that
I said no one died at Parkland and they were crisis actors, which I never said. I was very
careful about that because I think it did happen. They misrepresent that. They take
down our YouTube channel. Then they have to reinstate it later when it's admitted I didn't
say those things, but in congressional hearings, the head of YouTube goes along with, oh, yes,
I had my videos taken down. Oh, yes, I did that. Then they have two different congressmen
in the meeting say, well, that's like Holocaust denial. And then two days later, it is Holocaust
denial. See how that extrapolates? So they lie and say that I said nobody died at Parkland
and they were crisis actors. Then they lie and say, and connected to the Holocaust denial.
And then now they just continue to move forward. And exactly, I told everybody this four months
ago, the Wall Street Journal had a huge subscription article by the ended up subscribing to read
it like 35 pages long. And other people picked up derivatives of it and said, hold on to your
ten full hat. Alex Jones, YouTube is going to ban you. And it was the head, the new head
of news corps saying, we are going to move. We met with the big corporate heads of Time
Warner and others. We're going to work together. We're going to work with Facebook, Twitter
and YouTube. We're going to ban Alex Jones and WikiLeaks. Once we set the precedent to
de-platform them, we're going to de-platform everyone. I began ringing the alarm bell.
One month later, they launched the attempted takedown with CNN cheerleading of us on CNN.
This is history. Zuckerberg is now talking about in full wars. In major statements, they're
having congressional hearings in the Judiciary Committee. They are misrepresenting us everywhere.
As Owen said, I got calls from the media this morning saying, do you want to respond that
you're a Holocaust denier? And I called back two of the media people and I said, I'm not
going to respond to you anymore. Find a damn clip of me saying it or shut up because I'm
going to start having to sue some people only because you guys are the ones that are defaming.
You're the ones that are out of control. You're a bunch of known frauds.
But what they do is they get together as a group like locusts and they all just start
lying and lying and lying and lying. And why are they doing it? Because I'm exposing
that Chinese communists own our national debt. They own the most of it. They own Hollywood,
a controlling interest in all six major studios. They were trying to buy three other sub studios.
When Trump got in, he killed it. The communist Chinese own the media. Now, that's what we've
gotten into. They bought up the universities. They're in control. Basically, they have the
Office of Personnel Management Act. The media is their mouthpiece. They are the enemy with
this constellation of the corrupt unelected EU, the chai comms, Hollywood, the big banks,
radical Islam, allied with the devil pope. That's the constellation. That's the army
of Mordor. That's all the groups and all the people openly saying, take America's guns.
Open Europe's borders. Open America's borders. You must get rid of your borders. You must
bring 200 million people in from the Middle East to North Africa. That's Macron. This
is their move. They're making their move. It's happening now. It's going on. This is
the globalist takeover. This is World War 4. The Cold War was World War 3. Putin is
a nationalist. They are under attack by the very same globalist combine, the very same
evil combination. We are under the same attack. That's the only reason they keep bringing
up Russia is because they're attacking them as well, and they're the globalists. So again,
they have to point at a foreign enemy to make it look like they're Americans. They are the
enemy of the American people. They hate the American people. It's in their public statements.
It's in the vile hatred of anything Hollywood puts out. It's in all the crap they do. These
people are coming for you. They think you're stupid. They think you're done. A lot of people
say, how are you taking it being demonized everywhere? How are you taking it being censored?
How are you taking it being sued? I thank God for putting me on the front line. I prayed
for this on air. Everybody's seen me do it. I prayed at 3 a.m. at night that I could
be used as a vessel to take on these people, and God would give me the strength. God said,
I'll do it, but you've got to be ready for what's going to happen to you. I said, amen.
Whatever has to happen, I love my family. I love my children. I love life. I'm not looking
for this. I don't want to get hurt, but you know what? We're all going to get real hurt
if we don't do something to stand up to these people. History's happening right now.
A lot of wars, it's not clear who the good guys and bad guys are. Usually, there's beefs
on both sides. This is the clearest war anybody could ever ask for. It's not a war we ask
for, but it's one. If we got to have one, this is it, because it's so clear and dry.
It's 100% who's good. It's 100% who's bad. It's 100% who's for death and war. It's 100%
who's for life and peace. It's 100% who's for prosperity and our unborn children. It's
100% who's for Satan and evil and death and disease and failure and collapse and ruin
for this planet. I'm telling you, God's testing the world right now with Trump, and with all
of us, and with all these other people, these nationalists, and the worldwide movement of
Christians from Latin America to Eastern Europe to Asia, trying to fight the globalist
takedown, because every culture's being targeted by the media. Every culture's got the same
psychological warfare systems attacking them, and this is a spiritual war. Owen, we're going
to come back and get into the blue state, collapse, how it fits into the whole global
paradigm, their master program, and how to defeat it. But history is now, and listeners,
you need to financially support us, because that's the number one way you can stop them
from shutting us down is spread the links and articles, and take advantage at infowarstore.com.
We're in a war. We need resupply. We've got products you need, and if everybody doesn't
start really getting down and putting them on the line, I'm telling you, the globalists
have a chance of winning, but I know people are going to come through infowarstore.com.
And it's amazing to see what they do, and you can see it. We just illustrated it as
Alex was talking about it. They put out in all of the Mockingbird Press, Washington Post,
New York Times, CNN, everywhere, Facebook says info wars and holocaust deniers should exist.
So they pretend to separate us while putting us in that conversation, and then what's the
next step? Info wars are holocaust deniers. That's the propaganda. That's how they do
this. This is historical. This is what the Nazis did. We know what we're talking about.
If you or anyone you love has been diagnosed with lung cancer, asbestosis, or mesothelioma,
your diagnosis may be the result of job-related exposure to asbestos, and you may be entitled
to compensation. Over 30 billion in trusts have been set aside for individuals who have
been affected by asbestos exposure. How do you protect your rights and get the compensation
you deserve? Call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG. Capital Legal Group is one
of the nation's resources for settlement of lung cancer in mesothelioma cases. Law firms
have successfully recovered over $2.7 billion for their clients in all 50 states, and claims
have been paid in as little as 60 days. If you or a family member were diagnosed with
lung cancer asbestosis or mesothelioma, call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG. We'll
open a no-cost case review on your behalf. A history of tobacco use or cigarette smoking
will not disqualify your case. Visit 800-400-LUNG.com or call 800-400-LUNG. Call 800-400-5864
now. That's 800-400-LUNG.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new
addition to the Super Blue Line, Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle. Available in 1oz, 3.5oz
and 16oz bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you
go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever
you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing
formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative. With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin-free
is easy and affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue
Silver Immune Gargle, only available at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best
source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and
for regularity and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture
for a life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the
gut. So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time. And I'm doing this to introduce these
products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we
can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till
it's sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today
in FullWarsLife.com.
everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now. Everybody should be very, very urgent
because the left and the globalists are frantic and launching their antihuman plan because
they crave to control people. Those of us that are prohuman, don't crave power, we already
have the power, but we have to realize these scum are coming after us, and we have to
speak out and and take action now.infowars is on the frontline and so are you. We are
resistance.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The year is 1995 and Info Wars launches the last of America's counter globalist probes
in a freak mishap Info Wars dot com and Alex Jones are blown out of their trajectory into
an orbit which freezes his life support systems and returns Alex Jones to earth 25 years later.
Transdimensionally over the space time continuum where people are extremely lazy.
The social engineers are there laughing.
What we envisioned 100 years ago, 20 years ago, is now real.
While the society unravels, men run around totally frantic, not knowing how to be men
and women run around frantic, not knowing how to be women and they don't understand
that it's an animating contest of life and that it's fulfilling to be informed.
It's fulfilling to be involved.
It's fulfilling Info Wars, tomorrow's news today.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War.
And we are back.
It is an information war.
I'm on the phone.
Owen Shroyer is in studio riding shotgun with me.
He'll be taking over at the end of the hour completely and has a bunch of guests and critical
information for you.
Now, I'm going to lay something out here that I've laid out pieces of over the years.
Not that I'm going to completely basically break down now and I'm a big student of history
so I already knew this and I've seen pieces of it in textbooks and in history books.
But if you get deeper into the history and the declassifications that happened in Russia
and things in the last 20 years, understand it, but when Joseph McCarthy and his head
lawyer Roy Cohn, who was then the president's mentor and lawyer for 25 years, got into the
classified documents, they discovered the Carnegie Endowment, the Ford Endowment, and
the Rockefeller Endowment were funding communism along with the British government and others
and that they had actually created communism previous to that in the 1870s and had commissioned
it as a way to get the serfs who were being freed all over Europe while Russia, these
were white slaves, they lived off the land, they're basically sharecroppers, they even
had military, the famous Hessian troops out of Prussia, so brainwashed, they were proud
to be slaves, but they were war slaves.
They were actually bred and trained for war, so they had all these different slave colonies
all over Europe and all over Russia and the serfs were being freed, so they came in with
communism to basically trick serfs back into a communal system and back into, oh, you'll
own this, you'll own that, it'll be communal.
And of course we know it was a total setup, that's what communist China is, all this is
communist systems who aren't really communists with a bunch of rich people over at ruling
it, exploiting the labor of the poor people.
Now why do I say that?
General Benton K. Parton was the former head of Air Force Weapons Development, head of
HARP, so many other programs and he exposed Oklahoma City as being an inside job and a
lot more, but he would come on my show along with the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, Admiral Moore, before he died and when he didn't care if they killed him.
And they would break down the master plan, but there were groups in our government that
knew it was real and knew it was true and that they were trying to stop it.
Now I'm not going to get the whole treatise on how communism works, but again, the communism
you see in the public is just the outer shell, it's run by the ultra rich who want monopolies,
they want combats and what they do in communism is they take over a country or city or a company,
they exploit it, they max out the debt, they bring in a bunch of people that are dependent,
they create their own taxing authorities, they then loot that, they then collapse it
and then organize the people in that city, in that state, in that nation, in the exploitative
phase, they go into the exploitative phase, they now use it as a domino to attack the
next country, it's called the communist world takeover program, it's a program, it's like
you go see a play, it has its acts, it has its rollout, people should look up the communist
international program, this is their plan, they admit it's their plan and once they get
control of your country, they loot it, they suck everything out, they move it to the next
country where they're going to set themselves up and then they exploit and bring that one
down and sometimes they can bring down countries and exploit them within a year, usually takes
10 years to really get in, suck them dry, like Venezuela or North Korea or any place
you've seen, so they're in their exploitative phase and so it's like a domino and it falls
and then it falls into the next country, after they've exploited it, they then leverage
it to attack the next country, so you wonder why is everybody fleeing California, why are
they fleeing Oregon, why are they all fleeing Chicago, why are they fleeing Maryland, why
are they fleeing New York, why are they fleeing all the, even in places like Florida or Texas,
they will flee a leftist area like Austin and then move somewhere else but set the same
thing up because it's the same program of just like locusts, they come eat your fields
and move on, but this is directed and so Austin is in a phase of being ratcheted up, pumped
up, get the investment in, pump and dump, bring it down, collapse it, move on to the
next area, so that's why they celebrate really deranged psychopathic, homeless people,
crafting everywhere, it's why they celebrate garbage everywhere because it gets more sophisticated
now because they're going to send everybody an exploitive phase towards the Midwest, how
I would illegal aliens who are not even bad people but who they are openly propagandizing
and using, who are already in the Midwest, they are going to exploit that and bring
down the Midwest and then when everybody leaves places like Chicago and San Francisco and
other areas, they're going to buy it up for pennies on the dollar once those real estate
bubbles finally pop, so this is all very well and very, very skillfully engineered and so
just as they do it with nations, they do it with counties, with cities, with states and
then that's what's happening, so when you look at the police chief of places like Portland,
who seems like a nice person, saying I've never seen so much feces, there's piles of
it, no one's even picking it up, there's just mental illness everywhere, people trying
to kill cops, anti for running around, what have we become, we need to stop this, why
are you doing this, we used to be a great city, San Francisco, same way, all their big
medical stuff's getting canceled, all their, it's all over the news, all these big conferences
every week, people won't go to them anymore because there's just mentally ill schizophrenic
meth heads everywhere, running around screaming Hail Satan and the very same people then literally
go down and do story time at the local public schools dressed up like women, go about homeless
men with lice all over them, crafting on themselves, go and then do story time for your children
and you go that sounds insane but it's true, what, it's the most evil thing they can do,
the most bizarre thing, they can make you worship a homeless man in a leather skirt with feces
running down his legs, wearing a purple wig saying I'm a transgender to your children,
you will put up with anything, just like they have Nambla now, openly pushing child sex education
and saying it's normal, you've got all these sex education people and all these exploited
children experts being caught having sex with children and trying to rape two-year-old babies,
it's in the news every day, this is a cult of pure 1000% evil because Tabistock Institute,
the CIA that left us arms of it, it was declassified 20 years ago, you can just type in CIA funded
ugly art, ugly buildings, ugly housing, ugly culture, you say why would they do that?
Why is the weapon system a schizophrenic method with lice all over them, defecating everywhere?
Because if they can do that, they can run everybody out of the area and take full control
and then pose as the saviors and get more funding for sex changes and more funding for
psych wards and more funding for their medical systems they set up, they're actually giant
weaponized systems meant to break down the family, the culture and the society, so they
create the crisis to offer the solution and that's only one facet, but notice they say
come here, come here, break down the borders, Latin America's collapsing, same globalists
did that, Venezuela's had 4 million people just the last year fleeing north, many of
them are getting here and they're saying it's all free, come to El Norte, it's all free
and then once you get here, you're going to be communist and you're going to help overthrow
America and you're going to follow Congresswoman Cortez who says occupy and overthrow the government,
this is the plan, this is the program and Trump and others and myself, we're just saying
we're not going to be part of this, we're not going to do this, we're not going to sit
there and let this continue and let them put all of this right in our face on national
news showing two-year-old children putting $10 bills in the G-strings of fat obese men
wearing purple wigs shaking their butts in children's faces and you say why is this all
over the news because this is the weaponization, if you can have two-year-olds putting $10
bills in G-strings of fat men wearing purple wigs, you can do anything, they are psychologically
attacking us and the poor mentally ill people they used to do all this, they're not even
the enemy, they are people that have been spiritually taken over, we'll be right back
with critical intel.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax
fiber, prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Add to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why InfoWarsLife created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
It's supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today, available at infowarsstore.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced four-stage compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants
from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
When Mark Zuckerberg makes a statement, it's usually one of the top news stories in the
world, and he came out yesterday and made statements about Alex Jones, you're truly
an InfoWars.
And then the media dutifully took what he said and twisted it.
And then today, Fox News is seeing in her saying, Mark Zuckerberg defends Alex Jones'
holocaust and all statements, a perfect example of fake news, a perfect example of the hearings
they had two days ago for seven hours, most of the hearings about me saying that I said
no one died at Parkland.
Now, even if I said no one died at Parkland, which I didn't say, I would have a right to
say that, wouldn't I?
If somebody could sue me, and then if it's true, they could win a judgment, but if it's
not, I have anti-slapback and I have to sue them, which unfortunately to maintain my rights,
I have to sue them.
The media is going to spend that, that Alex Jones is suing Sandy Hook survivors.
But notice they haven't even covered that I've already filed the anti-slapback provisions.
It's just amazing, but yes, I'm having to sue people because they keep saying stuff
I didn't say, but, and I'm at the sue other folks as well, and I put people on notice
that these big banks and these big media companies, they don't care if they lose a judgment against
me, they're going to keep doing it because they're in a war, just like they say, President
Trump hates all Mexicans and says they're all criminals and rapists, ever say any such
thing.
He said, you've got a lot of criminals coming across, some of them are murderers, some of
them rapists, some of them criminals, so this is how they deceive, and I got a lot of calls
yesterday and I talked to a few of the media and I said I did not say that and of course
none of them ran with it.
So I have been completely silenced, except for my radio show and TV show, in FullWars.com.
I have no way to respond to their constant, intensifying lies, and again, why are they
doing it?
That's the answer to everything.
Forget Alex Jones.
By understanding, this has meant to shut your speech down, but what is it, I'm saying
it scares them.
The globalists have taken control of the media, the globalists want you poor, the globalists
are controlled and mainly financed by Communist China that openly owns most of Hollywood,
a lot of the media, the big universities are under their control, congressional hearings
on that, opposite personnel management hack was for them to compromise the whole country.
We've been sold out and it's incredible, and I'm here saying that mainstream media is the
enemy of the American people, they're globalists.
They change the subject with Putin because that distracts us away from the real enemy,
the chikoms.
So, I told some of my own people last night when I said, why do you think Zuckerberg's
defending your free speech in this lunch mob coming against you?
I said, he's not.
It's a false dichotomy, good cop, bad cop.
He's coming out saying, oh, people even deny the Holocaust, I don't agree with it, but
they have a right to do it, which is the first amendment, so you can give him that.
But then it gives him already ratcheting back 89% of all conservative content just out of
the gates, governed back, choked back to nothing, this cover like that's free speech, oh, we're
just smothering you, we let you have one gasp of air a minute, it's going to give you a
heart attack, but it's okay, we're slowly killing you, but at least we don't totally
ban you.
No, we'll have standing if they totally ban us, and then we'll have to go build our
own platforms, which we should have done years ago, like Matt Rudd said.
I did build my platforms.
That's another reason they're after us is because they can't stand that they've silenced
everybody else but President Trump and me, and Drudge and a few others, and that's why
in the hearings, they were lying about Breitbart, and saying Breitbart had done things Breitbart
never did.
That's why you see all this stuff going on, because they don't like anybody having a voice
that's just a common sense capitalist pro-America person, because comparing that to San Francisco
lunacy and Dian Feinstein and Maxine Waters and all these loon bags, but think about it.
Nowhere in the news, thousands of articles about Zuckerberg statements cover the New
York Times, you know, Politico, everywhere with their false headlines.
Where's Alex Jones?
Where am I in the hearing to face my accusers for seven hours that lied about me?
Well, they couldn't have me there, because I'd have said those strikes on my YouTube
were taken back.
They admitted that I did not say nobody died there, but I would have had a right to say
that, even if I was crazy.
But I didn't.
They couldn't have me there, because I would have destroyed them in 10 seconds.
I'd have said, Mr. Chairman, please ask the head of YouTube right here if my strikes were
taken off.
Because she knows full well there were, because she gave a statement to Bloomberg saying we
had a mutiny inside the company of the Southern Primary Law Center people we hired.
They took down thousands of sites, including Alex Jones, and he didn't do what they said.
That woman is quoted in newspapers.
She knew full well when she sat there and lied to them and said, oh, we did take down
Alex Jones for saying that.
So she went along with it.
I don't want to be that lady's enemy.
I don't want to be Zuckerberg's enemy, but I'm not going to sit here and be played by
these people.
I'm not stupid.
Oh, how nice of Zuckerberg, his backhanded attack.
Zuckerberg defends, allowing him full wars, holocausts, and irons on Facebook.
The average idiot reads that, and what do they get?
Then the media translates it to, I'm a holocaust denier by today.
That's how they're coming after Trump.
It's how they're coming after me.
It's how they're going to come after you.
So I'm honored to be in this position of standing with America against this.
Facebook's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, defended the social media platform decision, not to
kick off conspiracy theory peddling, websites like Far Right Info Wars, saying in an interview,
release Wednesday that doing so would violate Facebook's commitment to being an open platform.
So he's hanging this on, oh, we don't have prior restraint, because he knows that under
law he's getting in trouble, but they already have prior restraint.
They already moderated, they already governed it, they already cut it back.
The company has faced mounting criticism over the past week for allowing Alex Jones, let's
cite, a known prover of his information.
These people just say that.
That's defamation.
About issues like Sandy Hook Massacre and Pizzagate to remain on the platform.
No, the media hyped questions about Sandy Hook and about Pizzagate to divert off of
other issues.
Then when we debated what they were saying, they then said that we were the presenters
of it.
They're the ones constantly saying, I said nobody died at Sandy Hook or Parkland.
See how they worked for years, I've said, look, I looked at both sides, but they're
taking out of context.
I think people died there.
I apologize.
It was taken out of context with families.
Then I get to see the families, everybody on TV every week going, Jones attacked us
again today and he won't stop and we're really tired of it.
Please, Alex, stop attacking us.
And it's the mainstream media bringing it up over and over and over and over again.
The company has faced mounting criticism and then it goes on from there.
Democrats grilled Facebook officials over the choice of House Yashiri committee hearing
on Tuesday.
And then it goes on.
Zuckerberg responded to criticism during an interview with Recode.
Look, as abhorrent as some of the content can be, I do think that it gets down to the
principle of giving people a voice.
The Facebook CEO said, Zuckerberg said that instead of banning websites out, right?
The company removes individual posts that violate Facebook's terms of service.
Post promoting violence are particularly likely to be taken down yet, which we're not doing.
Zuckerberg, who was Jewish, said that even Holocaust Senators have a place on the platform
as long as they genuinely believe the content they share.
I find it deeply offensive, he said, but at the end of the day, I don't believe that
our platform should be taken down because I think there are different things and different
people get wrong.
I don't think they're intentionally getting it wrong.
So then they get to basically act like I'm saying that when I'm not, and then put out
this disinfo to make it look like the other side calling for total censorship is right
because we're all a bunch of Holocaust Senators.
And that's how it started in Germany.
It's the same formula, ban Holocaust denial, then ban being in a nationalist party, then
ban reporting on Muslim crime, then ban mothers and fathers saying their mothers and fathers
on school entry forms because the word mother or father is hateful.
This is already happening.
This is the plan where if anybody finds something offensive, it's banned and we're being walked
into this false dichotomy, into this false debate.
Now, finally, I need to say this because I never, never plug like I should.
We are winning, but barely and they are really trying to block us and if listeners want to
help us defeat these globalists, it is so critical that they go to info or store.com.
Look at the history of the tap them, the congressional hearings, Zuckerberg, the globalist.
We are seen as Trump's booster.
We're seen as Trump's guard dog.
We're seen as the engine of the, the reassurgents of America because we are, you, the audience,
the symbiotically, the economy we've created, the interface we've created, the system we've
created of rebooting America is so sexy and so real and so amazing, they have to close
our restaurant.
So we're a restaurant.
Our food's so good.
What we're promoting is so honest and so decent and so real, they can't have it operated
because it shows what a fraud they are.
They have to have us shut down.
That's why when you buy the products, you get great products, you get great prices.
Everybody needs air filtration.
We've got the best lowest price.
Everybody needs water filtration.
We've got the best, great price.
We've got incredible non-GMO heirloom seeds, wide selection.
We've got shortwave radios, tactical gear, great Patriot apparel, amazing supplements.
Get in there every day and check out the products.
Take advantage of store-wide free shipping.
I brought back the biggest super sale, the anti-globalist pro-free speech, mega-sale
right now.
Stop their attempt to shut us down.
We need to bring in a lot of money, folks, just to continue on and to expand on their
face because we don't expand their winning.
And quite frankly, I don't want to give them any encouragement, but we need your support.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are under attack.
We're not complaining about it, but we're running out of ammo here, and we're on the
hill fighting hard, okay?
And infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple-A-253-3139, up to 67% off of the store,
50% is the average.
Take advantage of it.
Hour number two with Owen Schroyer and myself, Fred.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Remember the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract, plus peppering from black pepper, makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and
so much more.
Turmeric root from the store only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric
root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com, or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You realize that when you spread the links from infowars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist.
It is you, the info warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the info warrior.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide.
It's Alex Jones.
All right, final segment with me here today, and then we've got Dr. Rume Corsi coming on
about the $400 million in the real collusion with the State Department laundering money
into Russia, anti-Russia operations and laundering and reportedly back to Hillary and her campaign.
It's a famous tactic that's coming up.
We're also going to have John Robert Ford on to get into all these subjects and probably
open the phones up.
We should open the phones up for people to respond, but infowars is now the center of
attention along with President Trump.
And why is that?
It's because we're saying the truth.
We're saying the kryptonite to the globalist.
We're saying the coffin nails to their tyranny high noon to have empire, that the globalists
are Chinese communist funded, that they want to implode America and make us dependent and
domesticated, that they're working with Hollywood, the unelected EU, radical Islam is being used
as their third world weapon to collapse our borders and bring down our sovereignty.
It's all admitted.
And we're pointing out that CNN and MSNBC are owned by the big multinational corporations
that are in these powerful combines with China and others in the one world, new world order
system that our own robber barons and British robber barons in the last 60, 70 years set
up.
And this is in Carol Quigley's strategy, you know, and Brzezinski wrote books about it.
I'm just telling you what the established but said they were building.
People ask how did I 25 years ago know all this stuff and predicted how it all came true
because I read the white papers, I read the books, we sell some of the books written by
them at infowarstore.com.
So ladies and gentlemen, they are coming after us in congressional hearings and calling us
holocaust deniers with no proof and all this stuff because they're scared of us because
they're the globalists, they're the traders.
They sold out the unlimited money of the Federal Reserve and the fiat system and I'm not going
to sell out Christianity.
I'm not going to sell out the unborn, I'm not going to sell out free market.
I'm not going to sell out to a global elite that are going to hurt people and dump people
down and enslave them.
So everyone has a choice to make right now, which side they're on.
This is historic.
And everybody's got to really look themselves in the eye and say, wow, why are they saying
Trump's a traitor and the military needs to take him out in Congress?
Why are the Republican cowards rolling over and joining in the chorus?
Because they're cowards, they are on the wrong side of history.
They've been winning so long against America and Christians and others because we were
asleep.
They think they used to intimidate us for getting our face or threaten us that we'll get back
in line.
We're never getting back in line.
You can't defeat 3% in any revolutionary war that won't give up.
You cannot defeat us.
We're way more than 3%.
We're more like 10% that are hardcore, another 20%, 30% get it to a certain extent.
And that's the enemy's own numbers.
We are winning, but the bottom line, folks, M4s needs your prayers.
We need your financial support.
We need you to go to M4store.com.
We have some of the biggest sales ever, 67% off the biggest deal, 50% off the average
sale, free shipping store line.
You need Alexa Pure Breeze Air Filtration 4-stage, very best out there for the price.
Carvalry units are $500, $600.
It's $200.
You can beat it.
Water filtration, whatever is the best highest rated, at a great price, Alexa Pure Pro Pure,
we carry it.
You need that in your family.
You need that at your shop.
You need that at your police station.
You need that in your church.
You need the fund, info wars while you get reciprocal trade of high quality products,
a total 360 non-zero sum game, win.
I didn't really plug a lot last hour, so I just wanted to put it out there again, that
it is so critical.
Everybody listening to me right now to choose which side of history you're on, but whatever
you do, you may not have a pot to piss in.
That's fine.
The biggest thing you can do is infowars.com, newswars.com, share it by hand, put it on business
cards, ride it on the wall, whatever you've got to do to get the info out, we are going
to win because info wars is verboten because we have the answer.
We can bring down the globalist.
We know the truth.
We're rebooting Americana.
We're rebooting free market common sense.
We love God.
We love you.
We love justice.
We have goodwill.
And you hear that all from Trump and you see it in his actions and that's why evil is so
incredibly upset.
So please, please, whatever you do, get involved in the fight now more than ever.
I salute all of you that have helped us and taken action over the years.
Without you, we are nothing.
All right.
Back to the crew at Owen Schroyer.
Now spread those live links to Facebook, YouTube and Twitter of our live feeds.
And info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest
release.
Winner sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D three.
Winner sun is a premium quality vitamin D three nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D three content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D three.
The research and development took over two years, but the result as verified by independent
laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D three product in the world.
Read the facts at info wars life.com about winner sun vitamin D three.
Not only does vitamin D three promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalist are targeting.
Visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host, Owen Shroyer.
All right, taking over the captain's seat now for Alex Jones and about to be joined by
John Rappaport from no more fake news.com.
Now I've got stacks of stacks of stacks of news on my desk.
I've got video clips that I need to get to.
I hope I can get to all of them.
It's just crazy because you have, let me tell you the biggest difference between what we
do here at info wars and what every other news outlet does.
And we're going to have the clip before the show is over.
Even Fox News will say things about Alex Jones and info wars and they won't play a clip.
We play the clips.
We read their stories.
We pull their quotes.
We go to them for the source and then we respond.
They make claims about us.
Never cite anything.
Never play the clips.
Never show the stories.
They just make baseless claims whether they believe it or not.
I mean, I don't know.
They report on it.
And this is why John Rappaport started no more fake news.com.
Years ago, John, I have a new analogy for what info wars is when it comes to news and
just news outlets.
Info wars is the hulk of news media where the more they attack us, the more angrier they
make us, the bigger and stronger and more powerful they get.
And they haven't realized that yet.
So keep attacking us.
Keep demonizing us.
In fact, I know that some of the crews probably listening.
We should probably put out a meme of info wars being the hulk and just getting bigger
and stronger every time they attack us.
But John Rappaport, what do you make?
For example, where they say, Trump's colluding with Putin.
Look at Trump.
He's the bad guy.
Russian hacking.
Russian meddling.
Obama was warned about this in 2014 and 2016, stood down.
That's a direct quote from his officials, stand down.
And yet the fake news can still report as if that never happened.
So John Rappaport, what do you make of the state of the news media in America right now?
Bought off, I would say completely.
I've been going back and forth on this because I know a lot of mainstream reporters over
the years that I've worked as an independent reporter.
And for the most part, I used to think that they were dumb.
They were smart enough to know what lines they weren't supposed to cross, but otherwise,
not very curious, not interested in digging down.
Now I'm seeing something else completely.
This is an agenda.
This is a plan.
This is money.
This is George Soros.
This is people being bought off to say not only that Trump is a bad guy, not only to
say that he colluded with Russia, not only to say that this is, he was never really elected,
but to say that violence should be visited upon him, that it's okay.
For example, I don't know whether you guys have flashed current New Yorker cover on the
screen.
You know what?
I don't think we have covered that yet.
I have the tweet from Judge right here.
He says, the left's continued fetish for Trump's physical harm slash death is stunning.
And they make it look like, oh, he's falling down the stairs here.
But the way they have the red tie, that could easily be, oh, is that a pool of blood?
Yeah, exactly.
And it looks like he's been shot, okay, assassinated.
This is on the cover of the New Yorker recent, you know, current edition.
And of course, they give this explanation, okay, well, we're just talking about the fact
that he came down the escalator when he announced that he was going to run for president.
And this is a metaphorical picture of what happened after his disastrous meeting with
Putin, blah, blah, blah.
But no, it's not, you know, to anybody with any sense looking at this in this media atmosphere
that everybody is swimming in and sucking air in.
This is another version of, hey, if Trump dies, that's okay.
If Trump is killed, that's, well, you know, that's the way it goes.
And that's just the light stuff.
All of this is part of a plan.
This is not just accidental.
People in the media who were formerly just being nasty and critical are now emerging
with Trump should be assassinated.
Well, they came out and said that pretty much immediately after he was elected.
I mean, you had Madonna saying, let's blow up the White House.
Johnny Depp saying, has anyone, when was last time an actor killed the president?
Snoop Dogg depicting an assassination, the one ugly man, woman, chucky child that had
the decapitated Trump head.
So it's really nothing new.
It just continues.
Well, the thing that I find that's new about it is the willingness, first of all, the willingness
of the media to give space to these stories as if they're really legitimate news stories.
And secondly, for some of these supposedly objective news people themselves to come
forth and in some kind of smirking fashion indicate that they kind of think it's okay
if somebody kills Trump, too.
Yeah, it's like, it's kind of like numbing them to it.
So it's like when it happens, you know, they won't feel bad, they've already been numb
to it.
The thought has already reached their consciousness stream.
So then it's just like, oh, he's dead, yeah, you know, cool, let's even celebrate that.
But this is like 1984 level brainwashing, John, where last night, moveon.org hosted
an event.
They live streamed the whole thing.
I actually rebroadcasted it and responded it in real time.
Some people enjoyed my improv comedy.
Some people thought I was a hack.
But either way, they're talking about, they say Trump is destroying the country.
Trump is destroying us.
Trump is rebuilding.
I got another record right here.
U.S. oil production hits record first at 11 million barrels a day.
So you've got record confidence in the housing market, record stock market, record jobs.
Just record, record, record, building, building, building.
And then what do they say?
Trump's destroying the country.
So destroying is now building and building is now destroying.
That's literally right out of 1984.
We've got Alex Jones who wants to pop in on the conversation here.
Guys, let's pop Alex up.
I just wanted to just call him for a minute or two because I'm listening to you and John
here while I'm with my family.
And I just wanted to back up what he's saying.
It is new that they've gotten rid of just the Dumbo's and brought in operatives and
deep staters.
Most of them have intelligence agency backgrounds.
And Phil Mudd, former deputy director of FBI and CIA, is on TV again this week saying,
the military needs to take out Trump.
He needs to be dealt with.
You've got Congressman Cohen saying military could.
So yes, they are laying the groundwork for normalization to kill the president and intimidate
him and his family.
But meanwhile, his daughter is out saying we need a pro human future, not one of robots.
Let's build a future where we still have workers.
Trump is for real folks.
That's why they're so scared.
That's why things are turning around.
I just wanted to back up what he's saying is this is criminal.
This is going on because these people have committed crimes.
They're backed up by the communist Chinese.
And Tucker Carlson finally brought that up the other night.
China owns our debt.
China owns Hollywood now.
China is in control of most of the universities.
That's admitted.
That's the real threat.
They're scared.
They've committed espionage.
They believe the CFR of the Chinese century.
They sold us out.
They were on the anti-American bandwagon.
That's why it's in all their own internal documents.
That's why people like Bill Maher is betting against America and hopes we go bankrupt because
they really are traders.
And they're the enemy.
And that's why they keep saying we are.
Back to you guys.
Great job.
I really appreciate the work of NoMoreFakeNews.com and John Rappaport.
Remember, folks, share those links.
Subscribe to the podcast.
Get the new free app, infowars.com, port slash app, infowars official.
People are really ready to hear the truth.
The strident effect right now, hey, this is the forbidden.
This is the verboten.
They don't want you to hear Alex Jones.
Just say tune in for yourself and see what he's really saying, why they're having congressional
hearings.
I know you're a media analyst, Rappaport.
I want to get your take when we come back.
I'll be listening about why you think they're honing in on us so much and why they're so
afraid.
Back to you guys.
Sorry to interrupt.
I'm getting John Rappaport's opinion on that in the next segment and I just want to put
a bow on what Alex was just saying.
I had actually just, I guess it was two days ago, I had a conversation with Alex about
this exact thing and I said, look, Alex, I think they're going to kill him.
I think straight up they're going to kill Donald Trump.
They want him dead and he's not going to stop fighting them.
I think that they're going to assassinate President Trump and then you see the New
Yorker and then everything else and Phil Mudd and we went down the road in this conversation.
He said, you know what though, Owen?
Even if they kill him, he still wins.
Even if they strike him down, he becomes more powerful than ever.
So they don't know what to do.
We have them against the ropes.
We just have to keep fighting and keep punching politically and if the red wave wins, it's
over.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids, $39.95 in free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your flyswatter.
Get your bug assault today.
It's an O-brainer.
A big, bulky water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
With the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon.
No refrigeration required.
For a proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest,
thickest center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve, savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price, the Fox Carambit Knife.
Finally available in the US, the Fox Carambit Knife opens with one hand faster than you
can pull a handgun for utility, for defense and for way less than other knives of this
caliber.
Go to TheUltimateKnife.com, truly the best knife you will ever own and only available
at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get TheUltimateKnife at TheUltimatePrice at TheUltimateKnife.com.
Patrick in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide, thanks for
holding.
I've been following you since I was 14 and I'm 32 now, I remember back when Info Wars
and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen and it had to load down the
page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool and read all the books
and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've been using your products since
the first iteration of Survival Shield and since then I'm on the X2, the Super Male
Vitality, the Caveman, the Real Red Pill, Michael ZX biting, it's all amazing.
Thank you brother.
Yeah and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more
you know God, the more you fear God, the more you chase God and I wanted to say that it's
an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
Everyone who's studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified.
We have global, hardcore, anti-human psychopaths in control of the big corporations.
They're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control, dumb humanity down ahead of
replacing us with machines and Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have
a human future.
They are launching a civil war against nation states right now, collapsing our borders and
my only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now.
Everybody should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and
launching their anti-human plan because they crave to control people.
Those of us that are pro-human don't crave power, we already have the power but we have
to realize these scum are coming after us and we have to speak out and take action now.
Info wars is on the front line and so are you.
We are the resistance.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now your host, Owen Troyer.
All you have to do is ask yourself what would the response be like in the media had somebody
depicted Barack Hussein Obama's assassination as many times as President Trump's assassination
has been depicted.
This is of course at the same time they say when they go low we go high.
I guess that means they get so high on ketamine that they imagine Donald Trump being assassinated
over and over in their head.
We got a clip coming up here of Fox News even now and I'm not saying Fox News is our enemy
but the clips now of them even attacking us.
And so Alex wanted to get John Rappaport's take on this from NoMoreFakeNews.com.
John, why do you think info wars is at the center of the crosshairs right now when it
comes to real media being under attack?
Issues.
One is globalism and the other is also connected which is the immigration issue.
These are two major, major powder cakes.
The media assumed that Hillary Clinton was going to win the election and then it was
going to be one giant wonderful fascist scum global village for all.
That everything would sink into a kind of collective oblivion for the entire planet
after eight years of her after Obama and that the media would be complicit as always and
then all of a sudden on election night something happened and it wasn't that way at all.
And this guy out of nowhere named Trump whatever you think of him and I don't care what anybody
thinks of him, one way or another, what was he talking about?
He was talking about destroying globalism especially on issues of trade.
He was talking about nationalism which is like the silver bullet to vampires or werewolves
and he was talking about a ceiling on immigration which any sensible person would understand
clearly from the point of view of what does it cost governments all over the world to
have open borders.
In other words, ask a so-called liberal anytime what is your top limit on immigration?
You must have a number after which you'll be satisfied, right?
And then it turns out no, you're wrong.
No, these lunatics are saying there is no number, there is no country, there is no border,
there is no law, there is no anything and that's their platform.
That's what they're aiming for.
This is an operation of chaos to bring on what would be a major global security action
in the middle of chaos to install a puppet kind of dictatorship over the entire planet.
So it's because we've been so anti-globalist, because we've been so pro-america and now
we have the president in the United States that echoes the same sentiments.
But John, I want to get your response to this video clip.
Let's now go to this was Fox News today going along with the next phase I guess in this
attack of Info Wars.
One you group us in with holocaustinars, you don't originally call us holocaustinars
but you group us in with the holocaustinars then you go down to the next step and now
we are holocaustinars.
Let's go to now even Fox News wanting to attack Info Wars.
Facebook in the hot seat again, Mark Zuckerberg is now trying to clarify comments he made
about holocaustinars.
The CEO now saying in a post, if a post crossed the line, it wouldn't be removed.
But that is a little different from what we heard him say earlier, listen.
I don't believe that our platform should take that down because I think that there are things
that different people get wrong either, I don't think that they're intentionally getting
wrong.
But I think it's hard to have three-page intent and to understand the intent.
Fox News headlines 24-7 reporter Carly Schimkus joins me now, Carly, this is an incredibly
complicated story and Mark Zuckerberg himself does not seem to have figured out how to go
about this.
You're right, you're right.
It's almost like they're kind of learning as they go along.
Now, Facebook has been facing a lot of difficult questions, a lot of tough questions, over
why they haven't deleted controversial conspiracy theory websites from their site.
Now, right now the policy that they have implemented is that they will delete individual
controversial posts, but they will allow the source to remain on the site, like Info Wars,
as long as they are not expressing violence in those posts, those posts will then be deleted.
A lot of people say that Info Wars does do that, Mark Zuckerberg faced a lot of questions
from what he said because he said that people don't intentionally get it wrong.
Many of those say that, yes, exactly, that's exactly what they're trying to do.
He's really coming under fire for a lot of this, forcing him to respond and in his clarification
he says, I personally find Holocaust denial deeply offensive, and I absolutely did not
intend to defend the intent of people who deny that.
That's right.
Another important point to make is that Mark Zuckerberg himself is Jewish.
I think that what is really important to him, of course, is freedom of speech, and that
is a very good thing, of course, but it gets confusing because Mark Zuckerberg says he
doesn't want to decide what is wrong and what is right, but at the same time they're
fighting this ongoing battle with fake news.
So what we're seeing unfold right now is that they don't really know what to do here in
these tough issues.
Yeah, they want to ban us, but they don't want to be outriding against the first amendment.
They want to be outriders of his shareholders and making money, and he has the confidence
to shore up of his users.
That's for sure.
Thank you very much.
All right, so you know what, look, maybe I was a little too hard on them and they didn't
really come out and attack infowars, but the point is, but that's it, though.
It is all about infowars.
We're the ones that are effective.
We're the ones that are influencing all of these other smaller channels that are liberty-based,
free thought-based, free speech-based, and that now they're getting a big audience, too.
So we're having an impact, so they're like, okay, we have to stop this at the head.
That's why infowars is the target.
John Rappaport.
Yeah.
I almost fell asleep during that Fox segment, by the way.
Really riveting stuff, right?
Yeah.
I mean, boy, it's just, but they said, John, we're going to break it down.
They just kept throwing in infowars here, infowars there, infowars here.
No context, no nothing.
Yeah.
Look, all these media outlets, they look at infowars numbers, they look at their own numbers,
and their blood begins to boil because they're losing, infowars is winning along with other
independent media outlets, and they don't know what to do.
What are they going to do, except maybe decide that, you know, let's have an assassination
special tonight where we'll have 16 reporters on saying, let's kill Trump.
Let's kill Trump.
And maybe that will raise our numbers up higher.
You know, I mean...
You know what?
Here's the thing.
I got a clue and a hint, and Fox News kind of gets this.
Look, again, that's why I don't attack Fox News.
I don't think they're the biggest enemy.
I understand that there's people over there that are full of it, people over there that
hate us, but honestly, like the trick, the trick, John, and some of them are starting
to get this.
Like, I can't even believe Tucker Carlson is on air, honestly, some of his shows.
The trick is to be more like infowars.
That's the trick.
That's how you get more audience, that's how you get more viewers.
People think like we think.
Those are the people that are looking for news these days, but that's why they just sit there
and they do these milk toast segments like the last one.
That's not hard hitting.
People want the hard hitting.
They want to know what's really going on.
We'll be right back with more from John Rappaport.
We're waiting for you at oneway.com, oneway.com.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no
batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids, $39.95 and free economy shipping.
Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your flyswatter.
Get your bug assault today.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard
seed.
Your high-quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep
earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
You realize that when you spread the links from infowars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Glovelist.
It is you, the info warriors across the planet, that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats, that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word.
You are the info warrior.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
So now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and limit a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
in infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info
war so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
Start listening to the Alex Jones show.
You found it.
The tip of the spear.
It is the Alex Jones show with Owen Troyer.
It is the Alex Jones show with Owen Troyer.
So we've been talking about the fake news with John Rappaport but I've got another story
that's right up his alley but first I want to get a good laugh here with John Rappaport
from nomorefakenews.com.
There is a Major League Baseball player, Josh Hader.
He is a pitcher for the Milwaukee Brewers and when he was a teenager in high school apparently
he tweeted something that was well a little insensitive.
So the MLB is now ordering the Major League pitcher Josh Hader to go to sensitivity training.
This is now our reality, John.
If you tweeted something insensitive, you need to go to sensitivity training.
So John, I'm going to send over the sensitivity training officials to your house.
I think that you need some sensitivity training, John.
You're just too insensitive.
I agree.
I agree and it's getting worse.
My condition is not improving in any way.
I mean, I'm becoming more and more.
We have to do something about this immediately.
Yeah, and it's all your fault too, by the way.
We're going to have you...
No, no, no.
This is actually...
This is a typical insensitive person right here trying to blame somebody else.
Don't worry.
We're going to train this out of you.
Okay.
Well, I need it as fast as possible because I'm afraid that I might do something dangerous.
Now, for example, let me show you how insensitive I really am.
Listen to this quote, which you won't find, by the way, folks, all you millions of people
here, you're not going to find this quote on any other news outlet of any prominence
in the world.
This quote is, in 2016 alone, the Obama administration dropped at least 26,171 bombs.
This means that every day last year, meaning 2016, the U.S. military blasted combatants
or civilians overseas with 72 bombs, that's three bombs every hour, 24 hours a day.
Is that why he's Barack Obama?
Obama, exactly my point.
This is a revelation.
This comes from The Guardian newspaper in England, which is one of the most left-wing
liberal news outlets, and there it is.
You guys are incredible.
I don't know how you do this.
You just pop it right up on the screen.
The crew's amazing.
Yeah.
So there you have it.
Okay.
This is the kind of thing that you're not going to find on CNN or Fox.
Wait a second.
Wait a second.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Who?
Which Hussein dropped more bombs, Saddam Hussein or Barack Hussein?
Well, Saddam Hussein was gone by 2016.
I don't think there's any question that I would have to bet on Barack Hussein as having
dropped more, because in 2016 dropped at least 26,171.
Now suppose this became a major story on MSNBC and CNN and so forth.
This discovery, blah, blah, blah, Chris Matthews, my God.
I don't know what to say.
The tangle is gone from my leg now.
Chris Matthews.
Man, you know, look at this, Obama just revealed here.
Forget what Trump said to Putin or Putin said to Trump or whether Trump had to apologize
or whatever.
No.
Let's forget about he said, he said, they said, let's look at a couple of facts here.
In 2016, Obama dropped 26,000 bombs.
Actually bombs.
Oh, and by the way, and the list of all the countries that he was bombing was the list
that he originated as the travel ban, which then they called Trump's Muslim ban.
So it was Obama's travel ban because he was bombing those countries.
Then Trump gets in and it becomes Trump's Muslim ban.
But just while we're on Obama, and then I want to get your take on another story here.
You know, this is all coming out.
I'm actually going to highlight this in the next segment.
But Obama was warned in 2014 and 2016 about the quote, unquote, Russian interference.
We have the C-SPAN videos.
We have the hearings.
His own officials said, quote, Obama said, stand down.
So it's just like the children at cages, the separation of families, it's just like everything.
It all can be led back to Obama.
It's really unbelievable.
But you can you can respond to that or John, this story is right up your alley.
There was a story from pewtrust.org today.
These pills could be the next U.S. drug epidemic public health officials say they're talking
about anti-anxiety pills, things such as Xanax, Valium, Ativan, Clonopin, etc.
The next drug epidemic, of course, the opiates or are the current drug epidemic, but they're
saying these anti-anxiety pills could be the next.
I don't know if it's fair to say the next, John.
I think that you know the numbers and the facts here.
I think it already is.
Yeah.
These drugs like Xanax, for example, have been the epidemic for the last, I don't know,
20 years.
I mean, it just gets bigger and bigger and bigger.
And by the way, those are the drug companies that fuel news outlets like CNN and MSNBC.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
That's right.
That's a major point, Owen, because these pharmaceutical companies in a sense own the
news outlets.
So therefore, they control the news.
And what they want as news is news, and what they don't want is not news.
Meanwhile, they're poisoning populations.
They're eating out America from the inside.
You want to find out what globalism is really all about at the core.
You look at the medical cartel, the Rockefeller brand of medicine, which is the most toxic
ever devised on the planet.
And what they're talking about, I don't know who these people are at the Pew Trust that
are just waking up from their own delirium.
I don't know what pills they've been taking.
Well, they just got, they just ratcheted the Xanax bars down.
Yeah.
They just woke up to the fact.
They're alive again.
Yeah.
That these pills have been destroying people's lives for at least the last 30 or 40 years,
and it isn't getting better.
It's getting worse.
And this is part of what it means to make America livable again, is for people to be
able to walk away from these drugs and put their lives back together in terms of natural
health and what health is actually all about.
Not these incredible drugs that, because people are not just taking these for a week in an
acute crisis.
They're getting prescribed these drugs for years and years and decades, and it's destroying
populations.
Well, and it's actually incredible.
You know, I don't know when this whole phase started, but I remember being in high school
and college, and it was like, it was like pop culture.
It was like a thing.
You heard it in rap songs and everything, you know, get barred out.
They had a bunch of different nicknames for it, like buses and stuff like that.
I was never into any sort of pharmaceutical drugs, honestly.
I thank God that I never went down that road, as some of my friends did.
But you can see it in real time when they're high on these drugs, which I don't know.
It's like, honestly, the crazy thing too about it, John, is they're so prevalent.
These are supposedly prescription drugs that should be hard to get, but they're so prevalent
where you have large groups of people getting high on these things every day.
It's like, how is that even possible?
The obvious answer is that the pharmaceutical companies are actually trafficking, which
has been already proven in the area of opioids with Purdue, pharma, and other companies.
They're not just selling to pharmacies, to doctors, to patients who are in severe pain.
They're trafficking millions of pills to dealers.
And under Obama, here we go again, 2016, a law was passed, almost unanimously voted on
by Congress, that hamstrung the DEA from being able to walk into a major pharmaceutical company
and say, we know you're trafficking.
We know which shipments you're sending out that are not legitimate.
We're freezing the shipments, we're busting your ass, and we're going to put you on trial
and send you to prison.
That is now very, very, very, very, very difficult to do for the DEA because of Congress.
But wait, John, we warned them.
We said in the things, in the fine print, the commercials warning could cause brain damage
and suicidal thoughts and all that good stuff.
We warned them, John.
Wait a minute.
Let's see.
Hold on.
Can I find a small note?
My magnifying glass isn't big enough to actually find a small print.
Can you find that small print for us, John?
Please.
I don't know.
Somebody ought to bring that up.
All right.
We're going to get the fine print for John, but John Rappaport from No More Fake News,
he's about to leave us.
John, we're sending the sensitivity team over to your place.
We're taking you to sensitivity training.
You're too insensitive, John.
We cannot handle your website, nomorefakenews.com.
We cannot handle it.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
Mycos went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment.
Our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco
bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Anyone who's studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified.
We have global, hardcore, anti-human psychopaths in control of the big corporations.
They're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control, dumb humanity down ahead of
replacing us with machines.
And Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a human future.
They are launching a civil war against nation states right now, collapsing our borders.
And my only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now.
Everybody should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and
launching their anti-human plan because they crave to control people.
Those of us that are pro-human don't crave power.
We already have the power.
But we have to realize these scum are coming after us, and we have to speak out and take
action now.
Info wars is on the front line, and so are you.
We are the resistance.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it
in fuller's life.
It take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
It's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake, and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Let's really look at how fake most television news is.
Let's really analyze how fake the Democrats and the left-wing media have become.
Hillary Clinton is going to win the election.
It's over.
It's not even close.
Oops, wrong.
Trump colluded with Russia.
That's how he won the election.
Oops, no, it's Hillary Clinton that colluded with the Russians.
On so many different fronts, like it's absurd whether it be Uranium-1, whether it be hundreds
of millions of dollars at the Clinton Foundation, whether it be half a million dollars to bill
Clinton for a speech, whether it be the dossier that the Clinton campaign paid for that came
from five Russian intelligence sources.
That's all the proof of Hillary Clinton colluding with Russia.
Where is the evidence of Trump doing it?
None.
How about Trump's travel ban?
They say it's a Muslim ban.
It was started by Obama as a travel ban from the countries he bombed, but somehow it becomes
Trump's Muslim ban.
Separating kids at the border.
Trump, he's separating kids at the border.
Look at how heartless he is.
No, this is a practice that is law that's been going on for decades.
And if you want to know the truth of it, the children are separated from their parents
in their home countries and they send them here.
There's no parents when they even get here.
Look at Trump separating kids at the border.
Trump putting kids in cages.
Oops.
You find out that the photo that originated that headline was from the Obama administration.
And it just goes on and on and on and on and on.
There's a hundred different examples.
The latest though has to be the Russian hacking or the Russian meddling in the election.
It's all Trump's fault.
He's out of control.
How dare he say that America is to blame for this?
But wait.
If Russia is really trying to influence and hack our elections, why did the Obama administration
stand down?
And just one step further, and then I'll retreat, if we're really so afraid about Russia meddling
in our elections, why are we having open voter registration for non-citizens?
If Russia wanted to meddle in our elections, they could send one million Russians to California
to vote and then it'd be game over.
They could send a million to Texas and it'd be game over.
So if you're really worried about Russian meddling in our elections, why do you have
non-citizens voting?
So there's no rhyme or reason to it.
But to go back to my point, why did the Obama administration stand down?
Oh, let me guess, CNN, MSNBC, and the Washington Post, New York Times are going to say, I'm
a conspiracy theorist.
Look at Infowars saying, oh look at Infowars saying that California wants to have non-citizens
vote.
No.
That's a fact.
That's a fact right now.
And they even have ads with Michelle Obama and a bunch of other liberals in Hollywood
and everything like, oh yeah, get out and vote.
The democracy, is it a threat?
Like everyone agrees with that.
No, people are going to get out and vote for the Republicans and Trump.
You don't even get how you're losing yet.
But Infowars is a conspiracy theorist saying that the Obama administration ordered a stand
down.
The Obama administration ordered a stand down according to Infowars conspiracy theorist.
Well, unlike everyone else that attacks Infowars and Alex Jones, that doesn't play the clips,
I'm going to play you the clips.
Let's go to C-SPAN.
This is from June of this year, the Obama official admitting Obama ordered a stand down
on Russian hacking.
This is a question I have for you, Mr. Daniel, and this puzzle's, there's a quote I want
to read you from an article that appeared of what happened in late August of 2016.
At his morning staff meeting, Daniel, matter of fact, said to his team, it had to stop
working on options to counter the Russian attack, quote, we've been told to stand down.
That's a quote from you.
Daniel Prito, one of Daniel's top deputies, recalled, quote, I was incredulous and in
disbelief.
It took me a moment to process.
In my head, I was like, did I hear that correctly?
End quote.
Then Prito asked, quote, why the hell are we standing down?
Michael, can you help us understand?
Question mark, end quote.
Is that an accurate description of what happened?
So that is an accurate rendering of the conversation at the staff meeting, but the larger context
is something that we can discuss in the classified session.
But I can say that there were many concerns about the widespread, how many people were
involved in the development of the options.
And so the decision at that point was to neck down the number of people that were involved
in developing our ongoing response options.
And it's not accurate to say that all activities ceased at that point.
So that's strange.
So Russian meddling, Russian hacking, the biggest story, oh my gosh, we have to impeach
Trump over it.
Obama didn't seem to care that much.
Let's now go to a clip of former DHS Secretary Jay Johnson on MSNBC once again saying this
can come right back to the Obama administration standing down.
When it comes to superpowers, we all tend to behave the same way.
If you make something cost prohibitive, then you deter the actor from doing it again.
And we've yet to do that when it comes to the Russian government.
We've yet to say to them, hey, don't do this or else.
We began that in the closing days of the Obama administration, but it's really up to this
current administration to follow through in a lot of those actions.
I've asked you this before, so I know the answer will Russia try to interfere again.
The answer from you has always been yes.
I'm very concerned that in the midterms in the 2020 election, we could see Russian influence
because basically they've been given very little reason to stop.
So there's Jay Johnson, well, Russian influence is a big problem here.
We stood down on it, but Trump should it.
You go back to the Obama official, yes.
We have here quotes saying that Obama said, stand down on the Russian influence.
Is that accurate?
Yes, that is an accurate recount, yes.
You had Devin Nunes.
You know what?
This is actually the incredible thing about it.
I mean, look at this.
This is even political, a left-leaning rag headline.
Obama team was warned in 2014 about Russian interference and did nothing.
This is the, see, I remember when I went back reading these stories, I remember in 2016,
and I've said this many times, Devin Nunes was actually kind of anti-Trump in the sense
that he was kind of leading the forefront with the Russian meddling crap because he
was actually seeing it in real time and seeing the Democrats standing down for two years.
So when this was all happening in 2016, Devin Nunes is sitting here throwing papers in
the air, like, what the heck is going on here?
We've got Russian meddling, and at this time he believes it got Trump in office.
So he kind of thinks that there's something to Trump-Russia collusion, maybe not in so
many words, but he sees the Russian hacking, he sees Obama standing down on it, and he
sees Trump getting in, and he thinks that there's something to this.
And so he kind of comes out as anti-Trump, but not as much anti-Trump, but pro-Russia
interference in meddling.
Then as time goes by, he sees what really happened here, and he's now obviously pro-Trump
and doesn't buy the Russian influence thing, but I remember going back and seeing Nunes
do this.
So again, doesn't this just illustrate how fake it all is?
It's so 1984, you might as well be reading 1984 and just call it 2018.
Obama warned for two years about Russian interference, they stood down.
Obama was putting, but it's not even Obama, it's been going on.
During the Obama administration, kids were being put in cages.
During the Obama administration, kids were being separated at families.
Oh, but it's Trump's fault, Trump's the bad guy.
Last night, there's a move-on protest that I filmed and responded to, it's on the Alex
Jones channel, and on the Alex Jones Facebook, Donald Trump is destroying America.
Yeah, he's destroying America by rebuilding it.
He's destroying America by record job growth.
He's destroying America by record economic growth.
He's destroying America by record low unemployment.
That's destroying.
Building it, creating it, making it wealthy and prosperous, again, is destroying it.
This is the 1984 doubling.
Oh, Trump colluded with Russia.
Really how?
Well, indictments and Mueller and Manafort, no, no, no, tell me how he colluded with Russia.
Well, we're gonna find out.
Well, Hillary colluded with Russia.
Oh, please, how did Hillary collude with Russia?
Well, okay.
Bill Clinton got half a million dollars for speech.
Hillary Clinton has had hundreds of millions of dollars donated to the Clinton Foundation
by Russians.
She did the Uranium One deal, 20% of America's uranium went to Russia.
She had intelligence officers get intel from Russian intelligence, and then that created
a dossier.
So there's all of the Clinton-Russia collusion sitting right out there, and with all of it,
they, imagine, they're wearing a Russian hat, they have a Russian shirt on, they're
waving a Russian flag, and they're like, look, Trump's colluding with Russia, he's colluding
as they're waving the Russian flag, rubles pouring out of their pockets, just flush
with Russian money, just Russia all over them, all of them met with Putin, it's all the
same.
Trump's colluding with Russia as they're waving the Russian flag, taking all hundreds of millions
of dollars from Russian.
And so this is now the 1984 society I live in.
Trump actually stands up to Russia, Obama stands down, and somehow Trump's colluding.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse Pregnanton product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnanton base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow
Info Warrior's favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up, all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost added.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Warrior's Life.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info War's Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Is there anything more disgraceful than a stooge and a puppet that goes on television
pretending to be a voice of truth, pretending to be a voice of righteousness when they're
nothing more than cowards and frauds?
Is there anything more disgraceful than that?
Well, see it for yourself with Anderson Cooper and Stephen Colbert slamming Trump saying
he's disgraceful.
You called Trump's performance disgraceful.
I said the most disgraceful performance by an American president on the world stage
in my lifetime.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Pause it right there.
Yeah, yeah.
In your lifetime as a CIA operative mockingbird press, yeah, yeah, it wasn't President Bush
lying about weapons of mass destruction.
No, I'm sure it wasn't that.
I'm sure it wasn't all of the other lies that got us into war.
I'm sure it wasn't if you want to keep your doctor, you can keep your doctor.
That's Obamacare.
Oops, nope, not.
It wasn't oh, free healthcare for all.
Oh, you paid $27,000 to receive Obamacare before you even get any treatment.
No, it wasn't any of those lies.
Wasn't any of the lies from Obama, none of the lies from Bush.
Yeah, it wasn't Bill Clinton lying about sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky or using
a cigar for sexual pleasure.
No, no, no, it was none of that.
It was Trump being real and wanting to have a good relationship with Russia.
Apparently, according to Anderson Cooper, who must want war with Russia, that's the most
disgraceful thing he's ever seen.
Go back to the CIA operative.
It just popped out.
The first thing I said as soon as the press conference was done, it just sort of popped
out of my mouth.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
But you heard about, he changed one of the words, right?
You heard about it.
Yes, I did.
Well, that all makes sense now.
Sure.
Yeah, it's very clear.
So now it's not disgraceful, it's graceful.
Yes, exactly.
It's the most graceful performance.
Yes.
Yeah.
But he has the best words, as he told us during the campaign.
Because he has the best words.
But you?
Very stable genius.
Stable genius.
You're a deep stable genius.
He is a stable genius.
Yes.
This is a jump ball.
It's either one of you.
Does anyone else share my feeling that I find it offensive to call it a performance?
That it's a disgraceful performance?
It's not a performance.
That's what they're doing.
Because he is the president.
He's just disgraceful.
There's no, if it's a performance, it's even worse.
Yeah.
So see, here's what you learn following these people.
Everything that they try to project on Trump or Info Wars or just to project out there
on anything, that's who they are.
That's them.
They're the liars.
They're disgraceful.
Stephen Colbert is disgraceful, going on air as a mouthpiece for the globalist against
Trump.
Anderson Cooper is disgraceful, a traitor to this country working as a CIA operative
mockingbird press.
Where are the disgraceful scum?
That's why they projected on Trump.
Honestly, I mean, you want to be perfectly honest, folks.
Donald Trump is probably the most accomplished president the United States have ever had.
I mean, you talk about individual accomplishments.
I mean, other than the people that fought in the Revolutionary War, maybe Dwight Eisenhower,
I mean, Trump, it's not even close.
But I digress.
You talk about disgraceful.
How about Peter Stroke and Lisa Page, who now Lisa Page in her closed-door testimonies
might be saying bombshell things that is going to bring this whole thing down.
Let's listen to Representative John Ratcliffe revealing some of the things Page said in
the closed-door hearing.
There are differences in their testimony.
In many cases, she admits that the text messages mean exactly what they say as opposed to Agent
Stroke, who thinks that we've all misinterpreted his own words on any text message that might
be negative.
Uh-oh.
Uh-oh.
Uh-oh.
Uh-oh.
Our stroke and Lisa not on the same page.
Oh, Peter Pennywise Stroke is in trouble, Peter.
Peter, we all float in the end.
Peter Stroke, you're going to float in the end, Peter.
Float away, Peter, float away.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
here's the deal ladies and gentlemen as we covered hold on I got a little I got
a peter stroke on my desk here it's like a little fly smash him into smithereens wipe
him off all right anyway welcome back to the Alex Jones show Owen shroyer filling in here's
the deal we covered this with John Rappaport the reason why mainstream television networks
can't tell you about the drug epidemic going on because of big pharmaceutical drugs in
this country is because that's who funds them you can probably not even go through one commercial
break at CNN without seeing a prescription drug commercial and for that matter you know
MSNBC probably Fox News as well so these are the people that fund television news and they
have essentially unlimited resources and finances to be able to do this and then they're protected
by secret courts now why am I telling you this a because it shows you kind of how mainstream
news operates where when you have sponsors and certain people that fund your news organization
you have to protect essentially those clients by not producing content that might hurt their
bottom line to put it simply okay so what does that mean well how often are you going
to see mainstream television news mention the fact that almost every time there's a mass
shooter they're on psychotropic drugs how often are you going to see mainstream news
talking about the drug epidemic going on in this country how often are you going to see
them write the stories about how the number is honestly incredible I can't remember I
think it's 70% of college students are on some form of big pharmaceutical pills every
day I mean you want to talk about mass poisoning you know just look at the side effects of
these 70% of students are taking them so that's why you don't see those stories on television
because they have to cater their message to their clients fine understandable our clients
are you our clients support us at info or store.com so we don't have to worry about
other businesses or corporations or industries being offended or hurting their bottom line
when we report news our our loyalty is to the truth our loyalty is to justice our loyalty
is to our audience so that's the difference between what we do here as an independent
news organization versus what you see almost everywhere else where they have to have funding
from big industries you know fast food pharmaceutical that's what they do to to fund themselves
we created our own store info or store.com and you fund us by shopping and we have big
deep discounts going right now this is the defeat the democrat censorship sale you've
got 67% off on some of the supplements right now at info or store.com you got 50% off top
sellers like alpha power vitamin mineral fusion brain force plus super male and super female
vitality super blue fluoride free toothpaste it's all at info or store.com take advantage
of the huge specials right now and download the new info or is official mobile app it
is a very powerful app I know some of my friends and family that have downloaded have told
me how great it is so it's all possible with your support at info or store.com take advantage
of the huge defeat the democrat censorship sale and if you want to rub your your thumb
in the nose of the fake news you want to rub your thumb in the eye of the fake news go
to info or store.com and support us today so I'm now joined by Dr. Jerry Corsi here now
Dr. Corsi I don't know how much research you've done into this and we can go down this road
or we can go down a different road but there is an individual Bill Browder who most people
have probably never heard of in fact I know Russ is very aware of him one of our producers
was telling me about him two years ago how we needed to report on him but it kind of
wasn't in the news so I just kind of dropped the ball but now last week Bill Browder has
been doing his media campaign tour Dr. Corsi he's going on like five media outlets a day
telling the world how bad Putin is telling the world how bad Trump is so this is now
another deep state operative anti-nationalist operative who's going vocal against Trump
and Putin why well I guess he's probably got something to hide of his own what do you
think Jerry Corsi well definitely has something to hide on his own he is the was an entrepreneur
who in the early part of 2000 went over to Russia and made about $1.5 billion renounced
his US citizenship didn't pay any US taxes managed to get out of the Soviet Union gave
part of his company his hermitage capital to HSBC and then I got involved in a money
laundering scheme where he got the 1.5 billion out of Russia and didn't pay any Russian taxes
and then he came back to the United States periodically and is the force behind this
Magnitsky act because Magnitsky was his attorney that the Russian said cheated them out of
the $230 million in tax and taxes and put him in prison so it's a complicated story
but it's the story that Putin brought to the surface again and the Helsinki press conference
by saying Browder engaged in all this fraud and contributed $400 million to Hillary Clinton
which nobody knew about yeah and it was amazing to me when Vladimir Putin said that because
again I'm somebody that kind of monitors media all day long and you never really saw or heard
of Bill Browder outside of some other independent news outlets and Russian media you never really
heard Bill Browder's name and then I see him going on all the different TV networks telling
everybody how bad Trump is how bad Putin is how Russia's this big problem even though
he left the United States to go to Russia I mean a total fraud and then Putin says Bill
Browder's name he says George Soros his name so this is why they hate Russia so much this
is why they hate Trump getting along with Putin because Putin knows what's going on
I mean say whatever you want about Putin you know he's not going to take this crap from
George Soros and Bill Browder well and and also now they've Putin is you know just dropped
another bomb they filed charges in Russia against Browder for you know stealing all this money
and not paying taxes and also then they've filed charges against several US diplomats
and others in the intelligences agencies including this former let's get the file here I've
been researching this extensively for the past week this Michael McFall who is the US
ambassador it was the US ambassador to Russia in the period 2012 to 2014 and Russia is claiming
that McFall is one of the people who helped Browder steal the money out of Russia and
clearly with HSBC owning part of Browder's heritage capital it would have been quite
possible to use HSBC for the money laundering it was at a time when Comey was on the
yeah I was gonna say and then doesn't that doesn't that implicate a lot of more actors
if that was the case right I mean this is serious case I mean this is serious charge
because the Magnitsky case it ties in several different ways one it was the the case where
we impose some of the most severe sanctions on Russia and that was really intensified
the this is all in the Obama administration intensified the tensions with Russia and secondly
the this whole issue of the Browder case comes up in this a attorney for the Russian attorney
that was in there talking to Donald Trump Jr. she was in there talking all about his
whole subject was to talk about Browder and she already had a prior relationship with
Browder via Fusion GPS and this was the lawyer that was essentially snuck in the country
by the Obama administration I mean nobody really still can figure out how she got in
the country other than the Obama administration signing her off so so that's what's going
on Jerome Corsi is on top of all of this Alex Jones is going to be joining us on the
other side to discuss Putin who just who's calling it as it is folks I mean again say
what you want about Vladimir Putin the guy calls it as it is you have to appreciate that
he says forces in the United States are trying to undermine successful talks with Trump
they want war with Russia they planned on war with Russia over Syria they're not getting
their war it's ticking them off this is Jessica Arman founder of my magic mud our team helped
organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water supply this is our passion
my magic mud oral care purifies and brightens your smile naturally GCN listeners please support
my family business by purchasing our products from your local health food store we're also
available at CVS pharmacy or visit us at my magic mud dot com and take 10% off now with
coupon code GCN 10 heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure
and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there
loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong here how heart and body
extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America my blood
pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how much
healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel I recommend heart
and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be
using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order
your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com want revenge on the common house fly well after
10,000 years someone has finally come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized
shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required
so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids 3995 and free economy shipping use
discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com fire your
fly swatter get your bug assault today do you realize that when you spread the links
from info wars dot com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you
that has defeated hillary and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet
that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against
the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting
us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of their
intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get
between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I ask you
more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people
about the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together
with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave
us your mother nature to detoxify the body that's why I'm introducing the shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support it's made in the USA it's filled with known compounds
from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports
the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that I personally have been
taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it
comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want yourself you want your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy
and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of America
to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can
be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's
time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com you're listening to the
Alex Jones show info wars dot com is tomorrow's news today and now your host Owen Troyer
so we're trying to tie all these geopolitical strings together here kid Daniels had a story
last year Putin says Hillary behind Russian collusion hysteria and elites disrespect Trump
voters and in this story he he mentioned some of this collusion and then the names like
Bill Browder that are now becoming mainstream and but here's here's the story and I want
to get Dr. Corsi's take on this in response so let's just look at Putin for a second
let's flash the clocks back two years when there were uprisings and violent protests
in Kiev and in Crimea in the Ukraine where you had unidentified snipers shooting protesters
and then the media blamed Putin for that and so Putin doesn't respond to the fake news
anymore he genuinely doesn't care and so to the fake news they think that means he's
guilty when the truth is he just doesn't care he doesn't bother to sling mud with the fake
news then it comes out a year later that the snipers were actually Ukraine Ukrainian paid
for Georgian snipers that were there to false flag it and blame Putin so it all came out
this is what they do with their false flags and Putin has never really provided them
any fuel he just ignores it and so they take that and they say oh Putin must be guilty
he's ignoring it no Putin is just ignoring your fake news so anyway this is how they
demonize Putin when all Putin's doing honestly is calling out the bad actors here and we
know what Soros does we know Soros has involvement in the struggle with Ukraine and Russia where
the Crimean people want to be a part of Russia but then they fund these violent protest say
that Crimea doesn't want to be part of Russia and then people get shot and they blame Putin
just twisting and concocting the whole thing and you know people like Soros are involved
in this who knows what Bill Browder is doing with his billions of dollars tax free but
what do you what do you make of the hysteria that continues in the media over over Trump
Putin over Russia I mean these people really want war with Russia Dr. Corsi well I also
think there's an element here of the deep state realizing how close Donald Trump is
to really exposing and you're showing the corruption within the deep state and shutting
down Mueller's operation I mean Mueller's indictment here these 22 are now 12 intelligence
agencies plus the other 13 individuals named in the first indictment none of them are going
to come to the United States to face trial and what Putin has done is he's called the
bluff he said well send your FBI or whatever to the United to Russia and you can interview
the indicted 12 intelligence agents in Russia and then he also countered with this suit
charging Browder with crimes in Russia and Browder appears to be protected by the former
U.S. Ambassador to Russia this Michael Michael McFall and as I've researched Michael McFall
Putin's got a lot of reason to be angry at him in 2012 McFall went over to Russia and
started undermining Putin he started having meetings with the various opposition to Putin
in order to see if he could destabilize the election and let Putin lose now that's a correct
that's you know Putin understands that at the heart of what he's just done with this
indictment is to expose that the United States was deeply involved in meddling in his election
in 2012 and this McFall is at the heart of it probably involved in a criminal scheme
with this guy Browder and maybe that involves U.S. money laundering through HSBC when James
Comey was on the board of HSBC and a Robert Mueller was head of the FBI so I mean Putin
is I think quite quite clever and I think he's really put on the table something is
going to be take Americans a little bit of time to understand but I've been trying to
explain this that it's a very brilliant move by Putin well here's here's the thing about
Putin to like again there's all of these different false images of of who Putin really is you
know he's this strong man dictator this that the other thing Putin honestly I mean if you
really want to know Putin Putin is is there a 100% to protect Russia that is his number
one thing he wants to maintain Russia as an independent sovereign nation and and that's
really when where his his if you want to call him a dictator stops this these people don't
even understand the geopolitics half of the country is going to bed when the other half
is waking up so st. Petersburg is at bedtime when Moscow is getting up in the morning you
think Putin is a dictator over this country that makes up 30% of the world's landmass
11 different time zones they don't even have a clue what they're talking about he's just
trying to maintain Russia as an independent sovereign nation and just keep them together
that's all he cares about he doesn't care about the fake news but but Dr. Corsi why
do you think I mean here's my take I think Bill Browder is panicking right now I'm not
sure exactly why maybe Trump knows something maybe Putin knows something but this is a
guy who you never saw on TV barely ever heard of now he's doing like five interviews a day
across all television stations so why do you think Bill Browder is all of a sudden out
in public crying Putin Trump bad well I see I think first of all what Putin realizes and
I think Donald Trump does as well is that they are both under attack by the deep state
the deep state would like to destabilize both of them on the hard left deep state is still
angry that Russia gave up communism and they'd like to get rid of Putin and reinstate reinstate
communism in Russia the same way here Donald Trump stood in the way of Hillary Clinton
go taking the hard left Democratic Party and making us first socialists and then communists
of the same move and Donald Trump and Putin are standing in the way now this indictment
with Browder with the connection to four hundred million dollars to Hillary is a very clever
I think move that will ultimately could bring Mueller down because Mueller's been challenged
if you have this if you've got a indictment against 12 Russians come over here to Russia
and it will help you investigate them you know just like the original indictments with
the I think it's like 13 Russians and three Russian entities so said they they they have
legal representation show up in court and demand discovery Mueller box I mean it's the
same thing Russia's like I you know we're here we'll cooperate and then Mueller walks
away well see Mueller never intended to bring these cases to court I mean look what's happened
the Russian collusion couldn't be proved so now like you know global warming it's more
it morphed into yeah I'm exactly well now we've got instead of Russian collusion we've
just got Russian involvement in our election which by the way has been going on for a long
time and Russia's countering and saying you were involved in my election and they even
admit there was no impassive ambassador right no impact but see again what Donald Trump's
got to say and understand the American people is that this proves there's no collusion because
that whole argument is abandoned and lost in the shift to the focus on Russian involvement
in the election if they prove Russian involvement in the election that does nothing to harm
Donald Trump because he didn't encourage the Russian and it was it was the Obama administration
that allowed it literally and they admit it I mean it's so crazy but I don't know I guess
I should stop being shocked I know I live in 1984 society so I guess I should just expect
this stuff up is down down is up war is peace and truth is fiction this is 1984 society brought
to you by the left now there's a proven powerful anti-inflammatory that absorbs 40 times better
yes nano curcumin plus from one planet nutrition contains smaller particle size that allows
absorption over 40 times better into your bloodstream nano curcumin plus may also help
reduce pain and inflammation detoxify and help against heart disease and diabetes nano
curcumin plus is now on sale at oneplanetnutrition.com use promo code GCN for your special discount
at oneplanetnutrition.com the next generation of nutritional supplementation this is Dan
Pilla do you have the IRS money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you I've defended
people from the IRS for over 30 years I've helped thousands and I can help you to I
wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case
call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of IRS debt with the IRS's new programs there's
never been a better time to solve your problem call 800 34 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or
my website Dan Pilla dot com we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious
health issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep
up with every faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something
to provide clean water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water
filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide
water filtration for your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's
compact in size easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant
reduction you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your
home head to info wars store dot com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase
or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time to go big and go
home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today I want to plow into all of this
that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution I mean I cannot say it any
clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com I
don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults who've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad the colloidal
silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three
one three nine and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with America stands with
Trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they
are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need
your support the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains
one of the most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for
exuding properties our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for
optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune
system and so much more regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent
of active ingredients but our turmeric root extract contains over ninety five percent
of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint
sage lemon balm and time to work synergistically for full body support try bodies today at
info wars life dot com or call us at one eight eight two five three three one three nine
we're listening to the alex jones show he aligns himself with the truth and it's time
for you to choose a side you're listening to alex jones all right we've got investigative
journalist dr. joram course he three time number one new york times bestseller waiting
on the wings to continue his detailed analysis they've owned shroyers sitting in the cockpit
in awesome texas but i'm here to do a breakdown on some of the developments that tie into
all this putin is a straight shooter he's standing up for the sovereignty of russia he's taken
away from the globalist trump sees kinship in putin understanding the model of taking
his country back and then rebuilding it trump realizes that america will be ten times more
successful than russia if we can actually get it out from under the control of the globalist
and turn it back on for the american people and everything trumps done has been a hundred
percent in line not with russia or anybody else but with doing energy deals that help
america and quite frankly hurt russia and and and many other issues so the claim that
trump because he's being nice to putin or or said he's been a strong leader is shelling
out is a total fraud the globalists have sold the country out and they're the ones involved
in mass of fake news i want to go over a few examples of this and then hand it back to
dr. course he and the one shroyer that we saw over a month ago the last big fake scandal
run by the u.n. and george soros but we've got a totally open our borders up and occupy
the ice facilities and tell collapsing this whale of four million people moving north
after its collapse to central america that america's open everything's free come here
that is a u.n. global government plan to collapse the west period that's their plan for world
government is collapsing third world countries into the first world and then we capitulate
to the u.n. to manage the crisis they helped engineer and so trump and putin by the way
are saying we're not going to do this we're standing up for our nation states and so they
put out this fake image on a red background of a little girl crying separated from her
mother with trump looking down on her trump was never at the border the little girl wasn't
taken from her mother all of that came out later to be a hoax but it didn't matter they
had the fake iconography the fake logo the fake imagery of trump standing with a little
three-year-old crying girl well they're back again anybody can morph somebody's face into
somebody else and it's a fraud on its face but intended but they show a morphed trump
and putin at a very archetypal level men look the same humans look the same so when
you morph two faces it makes you automatically think they're one you could morph my face
with somebody and think that so now they're resorting to that look he is putin well if
putin's running our economy coming back and the borders being controlled and the military
being expanded and thousands of new factories being built and the lowest unemployment level
ever recorded my god great job putin but no the truth is just like putin got partial control
of his country from the globalist and the irish economy got better years ago same things
happening here and so putin as a strong nationalist has been the model for many other nation states
around the world to struggle free from the big mega corporations and what they're doing
now after two days after their Helsinki summit putin finally came out in the press conference
today to RT and went off his prepared march for just two minutes the quotes are up on
info wars.com and news wars.com and he said listen you've got domestic groups want political
power trying to demonize Trump I can assure you in our meeting he's a hundred percent
about American interests and we're Russian and US interests meet in a few areas we might
work together but quite frankly that's not what's happening so they want to derail Trump
leaders are supposed to care about their national sovereignty Trump is doing that he was just
point blank he talked to me straight up and we just agreed to try to move forward where
our interests don't collide and Trump understands that you've got globalist like Soros in control
of your country that want to run it in the ground and admit it like Bill Maher and others
have said so that's the bottom line and it's it's amazing and notice they're saying don't
do it don't do the trap where we have this anti crime treaty organized crime treaty
from 99 with Interpol the U.S. and Russia don't don't do that where you get to go look
at the interview these Russian people talk to them don't because Putin wants to interview
Mr. Bonner that Corsi Dr. Corsi was just talking about so the Russians are straight shooting
on all this and again I want to be clear Russia is all about its interests it's mafia run
in many cases that's better to communist run and they're trying to be free market they're
trying to modernize because that's where the well said that they've cut their military
spending China I keep hammering this because Tucker Girls is now covering it Sean Hannity
gets it opposite personnel management hack all of this the sellout Hollywood control
the chai comms even Washington Post admits the big 50 public universities have been chai
comm infiltrated they're the ones running our lives they're the ones trying to bankrupt
the country they're the ones at Davos here in Avago saying don't worry about Trump we'll
work with you we're gonna stop him they are openly allied with the CFR and all these traders
they're the ones that think they can beat America Russia wants America off its back
with Soros try to overthrow their country so damn right their interest are they want
to get with Trump and try to have economic deals and they want to get married they want
to give us their resources they want to get in bed with America and they control about
half the borders in the world between Western Europe Eastern Europe Central Asia East Asia
Far East Asia that is a no-brainer the Pentagon knows that if you're actually pro-America
you go into Russia with economic development hype them up as Christians which they are
ready to do launch the relaunch of the West with Russia total global domination through
free market and open ideas not through the fist with military backed up by the US and
Russia China will be cut off we can make them reform it is the future if not death war the
end of peace these are the enemies of America the enemies of humanity these are the globalists
and Trump is absolutely right I'm just God bless you all I'm honored to be associated
with all you by the doctors around Corsi I was sure another from the central Texas Command
Center all right there goes Alex Jones doctor Corsi well you just heard Alex break it all
down I just want to get your response to that and and and all your research that you've
done into the deep state that you see Trump is fighting against well as usual I think
Alex is exactly right I mean this is a clearly the United States and Russia's two nation
states won't see every issue I die we have our own nation-state interests Russia has
theirs you know Ukraine is an example within their sphere of influence you know going back
to the balance of power theories of two or three hundred years ago that you know that
persisted since then we're probably not going to go to war over Ukraine and Russia's probably
not going to go to war over something that happens in you know Cuba I mean that was we
went through that whole issue in the 60s and we found out that basically you know the western
hemisphere is going to be used US fear of influence and Russia's going to have theirs
but the point is right now it is a fight to the death with the deep state for both Putin
and for Trump and when they got together in their meeting privately I'm sure they exchanged
notes and realized that they were each dealing with the same enemy this is why I think Putin
has come out brilliantly and said to Mueller if you really have a case here if you really
want to go to trial it was just show trial if this is all just you know you want to say
you indicted people therefore you proved your case would say you didn't prove anything come
to Russia I'll let you investigate the 12 intelligence agent and you have you and I did and you have
these just just frankly dumb you know what people say hey what what where's your evidence
of Russian inclusion and they say oh there's indictments that's not evidence they don't
even understand it and I heard one of the congressmen during the hearing you know which
representative Deutsch was calling for info wars to be banned from our Facebook another
one of the Democrats said that this indictment proved that Putin stole the election proves
nothing it proves that he indicted some people well okay now prove your case Mueller it's
like they will say they can indict a ham sandwich and Mueller made these indictments knowing
that there would never be a trial he was shocked when one of the companies in the first indictment
got some lawyers and said we're going to defend the case Mueller wasn't ready to go to trial
because he never expected to go to trial there is no case here that's the there's first of
all no collusion so the Democrats have now morphed it into talking about Russian interference
and Rosenstein admitted the interference that the Russians have done was minimal and didn't
defend Obama stood down Obama said stand down Dr. Corsi right of course do you have a ham
sandwich in your refrigerator maybe I go and diet it well you might want to watch out because
Mueller might be on his way to indict your ham sandwich so you might want to you might
want to get rid of that evidence but then he'll indict you for obstruction of justice
all right Dr. Corsi thank you so much for joining us find him on Twitter at Jerome underscore
Corsi
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is
an all-new version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula
that supports your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost
included a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill they quickly become one of our fellow
info wars favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including
green tea extract your remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up
all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real
red pill has it's also got the boost edit get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com
anyone who studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified we have global hardcore
anti-human psychopaths in control the big corporations they're trying to wreck free
market and consolidate total control dumb humanity down ahead of replacing us with machines
and Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a human future they are
launching a civil war against nation states right now collapsing our boards and my only
message is this everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now everybody should
be very very urgent because the left and the globalist are frantic and launching their
anti-human plan because they crave to control people those of us that are pro-human don't
crave power we already have the power but we have to realize these scum are coming after
us and we have to speak out and take action now info wars is on the front line and so
are you we are the resistance Patrick in the great nation of Australia you're on
the air worldwide thanks for holding hey I've been following you since I was 14 I'm 32 now
I remember back when info wars and prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and
I had to load down the page on my dial up internet and I thought it was pretty cool and read
all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your gas and I've been using your product
since the first iteration of survival shield and since then I'm on the X2 the super male
vitality the caveman the real red pill micro ZX body it's all amazing thank you brother
yeah and I wanted to say that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing
the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know
God the more you fear God but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that it's an
honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there 1776 worldwide
staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements
don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to
the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half
ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever
you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever
you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just
a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful
yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing
alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable
helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available
at infowarslife.com that's infowarslife.com you're listening to the alex jones show
and now your host Owen shroyer so you've probably seen or heard of the viral video
Sasha Baron Cohen tries to troll a gun store owner and then Norris sweet and called him
out caught it all on tape it's all going viral he is going to be joining us tomorrow and I'm
really looking forward to interviewing him that's at 1130 central tomorrow guys I'm really
looking forward to interviewing him because I have a take on this that I've not heard anyone else
put out there I've got a different spin or take on this that I'm not hearing anyone else
say so I'm really looking forward to talking to the owner of warrior one guns and ammo that
Sasha Baron Cohen tried to troll and ended up embarrassing himself so that's going to be happening
to tomorrow in the meantime here I really just want to do it news blitz so just just just look at
how they'll do anything and everything possible to try to bring Trump down now you have New York
governor Cuomo opens door to criminal case against trump foundation don't you remember
they're already suing the trump foundation they've already tried to do x y and z to the trump
foundation nothing comes it it's cleaner than the wind driven snow do and if you did a fair
investigation into the clinton camp or into the clinton foundation they'd all be in jail it's a
rico case there's a lawsuit happening right now so but this is just just why they're panicking here's
another example of the the double standards on the left Iran says Trump sought meeting with
president eight times at the UN last year now let's think about this here's president Trump
that is trying to meet with every world leader and to try to bring about fairness and peace and to
understand all of the different struggles and tensions and here's Iran that just gives him the middle
thing so what does that tell you about Iran and what does that tell you about Trump but more
importantly what does it tell you about the left that wants to coexist everybody get along we can
all get along we can all coexist let's all meet let's all have peace and Trump legitimately tries
to do that with one of our biggest enemies and where are they to be found on that story nowhere
this one is like i mean you are again 1984 level ridiculous russian bots are using
hashtag walk away to try to wound dems in midterms and then you read the story and they're claiming
they're claiming that black people in america are leaving the democrat party because of russian
bots so so they're saying now russian bots are tricking african americans into leaving the
democrat party not the fact that every city run by democrats is collapsing no
and so we're going to be joined by brandon strock i'm hoping next week to talk about this
but this is even the craziest thing they're saying it's russian bots guys pull up the youtube channel
there's a channel on youtube it's hashtag walk away fan club or something and you've got hundreds
if not thousands of videos between facebook twitter and youtube you have thousands of videos
of actual former democrats doing the hashtag walk away and filming it and explaining why
it's just like brandon tatum a year and a half ago who kind of did the original hashtag walk away
video i mean if you really want to get down to it i mean he didn't have the hashtag and the whole
movement but he was like look i thought i was a democrat and then i did some research i realized
i'm nowhere near the values of a democrat same thing happened with canis owens and so canis
owens and brandon tatum then i guess are just russian trolls i guess all of these videos
on the hashtag walk away fan club video of all different types of people men women all
different races all different creeds you have thousands of these videos i guess these are all
russian trolls no these are americans it's like i did this video last night some people think i'm
the worst at improv some people think i'm funny regardless i was joking last night covering
this move on protest with all these brainwashed protesters and i'm like brains brains brains
so these are zombie protesters that want to eat brains and that's why anyone that has brains
is walking away because they don't have their brains eat now that's hashtag walk away and cnn
is such a disgraceful pile of garbage that they're gonna say all of these people are russian
bots that's how out of touch with reality they are that's how big of liars they are but but more
than anything that's how scared they are because the walk away movement is real these are people
abandoning their plantation and so cnn is panicked right now this is from snopes fact check if the
president is impeached for treason is everyone else removed from office as well think about this
so so this is snopes the big fact checker it's like a house cat and a mouse
fact checking and they just imply that the charges of treason are just already inherent
like oh yeah it's a fact that trump could be tried with treason so what does that mean for
everyone else in office he can't be tried for treason there's no treason they can't even explain
the treason they don't trump is siding with russia over the us intelligence agencies that's not treason
so these people don't even know what they're talking about if anything it's the intelligence
agencies guilty of treason spying on us citizens illegally i mean give me a break
brace yourselves for this one leena dunham leena dunham the ham leena ham not the good ham
leena badham leena dumbham deletes tweet about french kissing animals
ladies and gentlemen cocaine is a hell of a drug leena dunham tweets out to her five
and a half million followers saying never trust anyone who doesn't regularly pinch french kiss
animals all right i don't know what to make of this but i think it's fair to ask did leena dunham
just admit she engages in bestiality i'm just asking for a friend and so she obviously deleted
that tweet was it drug induced was it alcohol induced was it reality induced leena dunham
says never trust anyone who doesn't regularly french kiss animals
is she talking about herself i wouldn't trust anyone that french kisses that animal it's like a
a beached sea porpoise or something all right look at this one from the hill
media figures lament toxic twitter let me let me translate this for you because these people
love twitter they run twitter they censor us on twitter they're losing on twitter they don't
know what to do about it twitter is only toxic now because we have dominated it we are kicking
ass on twitter even with all the censorship and they don't know what to do all they have left
is their leftist bots paid for by david brock that's all they have that's all they have and so now
they hate twitter because they're losing so media figures now lament twitter because they're losing
on twitter san francisco registers non-citizens to vote in school election and they want them to
vote in the presidential election oh here you go maxine waters good old mad maxine the mad hatter
the james brown wig wearing freak show warren supporters of possible armed protest against
her hey i got news for you maxine i've already had armed protest against me so why don't you get
on my level mad max i've already had on protest against me but then again we hear the conservatives
and the patriots and the americans we don't do armed intimidation protests that's your people
it's your people that shot steve's police okay it's your people that planned the july 4th bombing
in cleveland it's your people that had an armed protest against me we should run that b-roll if
we have it available so maxine waters warn supporters of a possible armed protest against
her playing the victim hey maxine i've had armed protest against me your thugs did armed protest
against me so get on my level mad maxine with your 12 iq but look out petition calling for
maxine waters expulsion nears a hundred thousand signatures which is what it requires for a white
house response look out mad max you're in trouble you're a deranged lunatic freak show
that is trying to serve violence in this country democrat slam ok ratio quartess
her socialist vision would bankrupt the country i'm telling you democrats in middle america like
in illinois etc are capitalists they don't understand and here's the other thing about it
as this this this brazen arrogant young lady who's totally ignorant is calling for occupation of
airports ice offices all this stuff she's not even elected yet think about that she's not even in
office yet and they're already putting the crown on her if she loses in this upcoming election do
you understand how devastating that is to the democrat party it's already devastating that
she's outed herself as a total moron imagine if she loses the darling of the left the socialist queen
already crowned imagine if she loses it's a total collapse in full wars life is launching
its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got
the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known
to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works
with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as micro zx that targets the yeast
the mold and the funguses in the gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new
incredible fiber product and these other products you get them separately or together and make really
really big savings and get high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce
these products to you bodies sold out in a month a strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can
come up with it's sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and
i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber get yours today in full wars life dot com
as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs
with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary
nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily that's why info wars life created the powerful
vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation
vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body
the tools it needs to support your body using a proprietary process we've managed to make this
powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients
perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different
essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great
tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info
wars store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show we now take you live to the central
texas commence every and the heart of the resistance and now your host owin shawyer all right rand paul is
on fire right now just just what a patriot he is yesterday we had the clip of him being lambasted
by cbs in the morning they just were begging for him to say trump bad he refused to say it so they
kicked him off the show shows you how much integrity they have how much they care about the truth
now he goes on i believe he was on cnn with wolf blitzer and he's talking about trump
derangement syndrome right on their main platform promoting it check out rand paul the patriot
what is lost in this is that i think there's a bit of trump derangement syndrome i think
there are people who hate the president so much that this could have easily been president obama
early in his first administration setting the reset button and trying to have better relations
with russia and uh i think it's lost on people that they are a nuclear power they have influence
in syria they're in close proximity to our troops in syria they are close to the peninsula of
north korea and they have some influence that can help us there the other thing that's lost and
people forget this completely the russians tried to help us stop the boston marathon bombing
we actually did help them stop a terrorist attack in st petersburg because we were communicating
and exchanging information all those things are good right there you know that that's so key you
know again tamerlin sarnev was the guy who they claim was responsible for it had ties to the fbi
and cia yet somehow they didn't know who he was he was going out of um i can't even remember the city
now in western russia maybe one of the crew members can remind me but i can't remember but
it's in western russia and he's going back and forth russia's aware of it they know he's sympathizing
with isis so they warn our intelligence communities and then they stand down chechnya that's where he
was so then they stand down it all happens and that's what woke me up was that story the boston
marathon bombing showed that's what woke me up to the the deep state the lies of the mainstream
media more than anything and i from that day on started transitioning out of sports into politics
here i am today but it's just these are just the little facts that if people understood
that they would just open their eyes let's go back to ran paul all of that's being lost
it's not a matter of hating uh president trump it's a matter of what he did today
what he said today met with a president putin as you know for more than two hours unlike other
presidents especially on foreign soil he blamed the united states for the bad relationship yeah
yeah yeah pause right there hey wolf blitzer where were you when there was a hot mic obama
wasn't aware of it and he said oh uh i think it was with lavrov or some other uh russian officially
says oh don't worry when i get reelected we'll have the negotiations with putin yes just wait
just wait he leans over and he's all secret he's like he's like it's okay just just uh you know
after my reelection we'll get the deals done we'll meet with putin everything no outrage
never aired on cnn all right let's go back pain to back his own intelligence community for its
assessment he declined to support the u.s law enforcement community including the justice
department he continued senator he continues to call right then hold on a second he continues to
call the news media a free press in the united states you are the enemy you're a lying scumbag
wolf blitzer you're out you're a divider any other hope senator any other president in america
history done anything like that he's like listening to ask or the grouch or something for example when
you look at the intelligence community the most recent leaders of the intelligence community
james clapper and john brennan james clapper perjured himself i'm talking about dan codd bingo i'm
talking about dan codes the current director of national intelligence you'll let me answer
this is just what cbs did to him yesterday i have a question wolf we can't really have
no no i just want to be precise it's not clapper it's not brennan it's it's dan codd and mike
pompeo you're usually better you're usually better oh my god i'm telling you folks they are pushing
these republicans i tell you what it does matter who was in charge of the intelligence it does matter
because they started up some of this clapper lied brennan lied brennan was a communist brennan's a
wahhabist they all i mean it's it's ridiculous and so there's the powerful ran paul segment on cnn
so they do the same thing they did to him on cbs they interrupt him they don't let him answer and
then they kick him off these are trash these are scum they lie all day long and then they're
going to point the finger at trump and how dare he say we're the enemy of the american people
by the way america's racist and sexist and misogynist you should hate it what screw you
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no
better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most
potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula
that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today you are listening to
an info wars dot com frontline report if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
and now your host anthony koumia yes hello everybody welcome welcome uh boy i haven't been on in a
while it was a kind of vacation time uh over the the course of the beginning of the summer here
so uh my schedule my schedule wasn't jibing with info wars and and alex and whatnot but uh
uh it's not like nothing happened during the time i've been away it's uh every time i think i say this
every time i do this program uh it just keeps getting crazier it just gets
nuttier and nuttier as time goes on you look back you look back with uh fondness and nostalgia
at the insanity of just a month ago you can look back go i remember when i thought that was
complete insanity a month ago remember oh my goodness when they were saying they're they're
ripping babies out of uh parents arms wasn't that wasn't that quaint and saying that trump was a
terrible person and that oh so quaint because now we are really legitimately literally up to
they want him absolutely removed from office and they are doing everything in their power
to do it and by day we know who it is the uh liberal maniacs the democrats mainstream media
all these uh interest groups for the left antifa and uh and the rest it's it's gotten insane
i i read twitter every day and uh i i cannot even fathom what these people are thinking
if it's just a motive like i would have more respect for them if they are lying through
their teeth and just trying to get the president that they didn't vote for out of office i would i
would have more respect for him if it's that then them being so incredibly stupid that they honestly
believe that donald trump committed some type of treason war crimes crimes against humanity
crimes against the state that he can be removed and quite possibly executed because if you listen
to uh some of the the mainstream media uh liberal news programs or read um twitter you know the people
with the blue checkmarks because a lot of people that don't have checkmarks uh have their own opinions
but uh you're not supposed to see those because twitter um another just cesspool another cesspool
like the rest of social media and uh mainstream media but uh you read this stuff and i really
have to think my god could they be this stupid donald trump it let's whittle it down to the the
simplest simplest terms here donald trump goes to Helsinki and he has a summit with uh putin
and uh he he gets has a press conference after they they had a private meeting and he said things
let's let's remember this he said things he did not enact any policies he did not promise anything
he did not change a thing all he did was say things that some people did not like
and uh that started the frenzy of just twisting this thing around into them saying
that he had committed treason somehow there there are people that believe this there are honestly
people that believe this and yes it is trump derangement syndrome i i knew it existed but
to what extent and and like i said just just before is it is there this just pure motivation
to remove the guy that they didn't vote for because they're mad like little children they're angry
or are they really do they really believe this are they deranged because i know there are a lot
of celebrities oh my god i can't get enough of following just insane celebrities on twitter
and and hearing what they're saying they they really think they're they're making a difference
out there and and putting their opinions out my favorite follows if you'd like to follow along
if you're not blocked already because they will block you with the drop of a hat if you
criticize their uh take on things um rob reiner is is just insane you all might remember him as
meathead uh on on all the family back in the 70s uh he he posts tweets about about treason
and and traitorous acts of this president and and he needs to be removed from office like
what i and none of them can answer me none of them whether it's a celebrity or or your ordinary
liberal joe or jane i'm not sure what i don't want to i don't want to say what gender they might be
but but i never get an answer what first of all what is treason and what did trump do that was
treasonous as far as i know now i'm no scholar here but i do read up on uh the the topics of
the day uh like i said donald trump said things he wasn't pledging any allegiances he was speaking
his his mind and his opinions on what he has seen in his position as president over the course of
the past uh almost couple of years and uh he you cannot blame the man for not being trusting
of the various agencies like the cia and fbi and some of the other uh justice department
agencies you can't be trusting when all they have done since you you won the election was try and
undermine your presidency well anthony they weren't doing that they were doing their job
enforcing the laws no one big enough to jail well then you start seeing tweets from the
likes of uh james comey who was indeed the head of the fbi for most of um uh most of uh trump's uh
presidency if not all of it right didn't they toss uh mule around uh anyway so then he reads
some of his tweets and he's like vote democrat it's so important ah trump we gotta get this guy out
and you what do you think he just changed his mind the republican congress has proven incapable
of fulfilling the founders design that ambition must counteract ambition all who believe in this
country's values must vote for democrats this fall policy differences don't matter right now
history has its eyes on us stop trying to be profound if anyone is traitorous it's uh this
guy against his uh his president uh you know they all the sudden he becomes political all
the sudden this this mindset of of not supporting the president came out no this has been day one
day one they wanted this guy out he's not part of their machine and when people go they're
republicans they were appointed by republicans they love republicans they don't matter it's not
republican and democrat at this point it's it's people that want the best for america
and people that want america in turmoil and and it's exactly what they're doing it's the machine
the political machine that has been running forever in this country they don't want an
outsider in there mucking up the works because that's what trump is doing uh to everything that they
have put in place over the course of decades upon decades there's a system in place politicians go in
there's a cronyism they do favors they get favors they get money uh when they're done
they are wealthy beyond imagination public servants rich beyond imagination because they
have screwed everyone in this country for their tenure and donald trump is pointing it out and
that ain't good they do not like this at all so don't tell me about republicans or democrats
because it's that machine that's been grinding away using the american people as fuel for decades
upon decades don't go anywhere my god i'm going to tell you about the stock market and other fun
things going on in this country uh we'll be right back info wars dot com you have been lied to
my name is kevin ship i'm a former decorated cia officer finally someone has come out and written
what i think is the best x mose on the shadow government ever we're in a constitutional crisis
and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government we got to get this out
because just because you're awake folks doesn't mean other people are this is critical to get to
read to give them the library to give them the courage to get them right now at killing uncle
sam buck dot com killing uncle sam buck dot com bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon
no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right
from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use
order today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready to eat bacon dot com tired of being censored by
facebook youtube twitter and patreon well now you don't have to be one way dot com is the free speech
and human friendly social network built just for you stop feeding the beast every post you make on
those evil anti-human anti-american perverted sites helps them destroy our families our country
and our souls join one way today and take back your liberty your free speech alternative is
waiting for you at oneway dot com oneway dot com most of you know that heart disease is the
number one silent killer in the u.s what if i told you for just 54 95 a month you could fight
against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people
get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it check out all of the success stories
at hp extract dot com or to order call 866 295 5305 that's 866 295 5305 hp extract dot com don't
risk it when you can take charge of it anyone who's studied history and knows how human systems
work is horrified we have global hardcore anti-human psychopaths in control the big
corporations they're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control dumb humanity down
ahead of replacing us with machines and trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we
have a human future they are launching a civil war against nation states right now collapsing our
borders and my only message is this everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now
now everybody should be very very urgent because the left and the globalist are frantic and launching
their anti-human plan because they crave to control people those of us that are pro-human
don't create power we already have the power but we have to realize these scum are coming after us
and we have to speak out and take action now info wars is on the front line and so are you we are
the resistance we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue
info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every
faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide
clean water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system
is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for
your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install
and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you
and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this one filter for
clean and refreshing water all over your home head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your
first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time
to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars.com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now
your host anthony koumia. Yes welcome back super silver wound gel uses silver salt technology
that's an advanced patented technology that has forever changed the coletil nano my god it's crazy
uh silver market there's been extensive research on silver salt technology this research includes
20 plus safety reports and test series as well as the first ever double blind FDA cleared human
ingestion toxicity study done on any silver product this formula is 24 ppm that's 32 ppm version
is FDA cleared as a prescription medical device similar products self of 40 dollars or more
it's only uh it's one of the only otc products that direct uh claims against uh mercer you don't
want that and vre two of the most deadly forms of bacteria that can cause infection great for
first and second degree burns including sunburn the super silver wound gel is essential armor for
your wounds it's a protective barrier that guards the wound and helps keep from getting infected
you don't want an infection the barrier protection can last up to three days on the skin helping to
eliminate the chance of infection it's perfect for athletes of all ages in all areas of sports
yeah super silver wound gel um we might at any moment uh oh are we ready right now nice we're
going to uh let roger stone take over for a few minutes and then we'll be right back on info wars
dot com roger stone thank you anthony uh this is roger stone from the south florida bureau of info
wars with breaking news yesterday it was reported that special counsel robert muhler would ask the
court for immunity for five witnesses to testify against paul manifold we at info wars have
exclusively learned that one of those five witnesses is tony podesta tony podesta is guilty
of the same infraction as paul manifold lobbying uh on behalf of the ukrainian political party
without lobbying it's also interesting that tony podesta was the lobbyist for the russian-owned
energy company rostov that acquired uranium one additionally tony podesta has had a number
of high-profile corporate russian clients of companies owned by the oligarchs around
latimer putin so to make this very clear if you are a democrat and you break the law you are given
immunity yet if you are a republican and you allegedly break the law paul manifold you are
prosecuted this lays bare the completely partisan nature of the mother investigation this is roger
stone with breaking news now back to anthony thank you roger wow look at this you know i love the
little bits and pieces that trickle out of this investigation that just proved the hypocrisy
that's uh going on in uh in this country uh nauseating i was watching um chapa quiddick
the other day and uh you see you know the story ted kennedy is just about uh almost to the day it
was was yesterday maybe the day before that uh 49 years ago ted kennedy having uh one of the one
of their parties out there in the vineyard uh having one of their big parties uh drinking with
some some of the secretarial staff from uh his brother bobby's campaign before well we know what
happened there uh so he's getting those secretaries together and maybe he might be using them in the
future for his own political runs and whatnot so having this party and mary joe kopeckney
is one of these lovely girls that are uh there uh partying with them and at some point during the
evening he takes a little drive with mary joe they go out have a little chit chat maybe a few
drinks god knows what else i'm i'm not insinuating but we all know the kennedy's what uh what was
going on apparently his wife was bedridden at the time so he's gallivanting around with uh with mary
joe so he's a hammered he drives off the bridge a chapa quiddick car flips over underwater he
manages to get out she doesn't uh and then from that point on this attempted cover-up happens
now the movie shows him trying to be a good guy about it after he realizes that maybe his
attempts at covering it up wasn't a good thing and but uh you know we we don't know the whole
political machine was behind him trying to get him out of trouble uh robert macnamara apparently
was in there and and a lot of other big wigs uh in washington to try to get him out of trouble
uh but the bottom line is there was a huge cover-up to this day all the details aren't known uh there
was um strong evidence that mary joe was not killed immediately or did not drown she ran out of oxygen
uh in an air pocket in the car so uh again there was a lot of time to to get her out but apparently
for some reason ted instead called a couple of his buddies got in a little boat rode back to his
hotel which was across a small body of water and took a bath and went to sleep they woke up the
next day and called a bunch of other people and uh finally when the cat was out of the bag he he
started fessing up to some of this with a lot of alterations to the story let's say i'm i'm
bringing this up because again yeah the history of it it was 49 years ago and also the fact that
this guy went on to serve in uh the united states senate for 40 more years this guy held the office
up there in massachusetts like a pope held that office like the pope you're not out till you're
dead they voted him in every time he even did make a presidential run uh he he he lost in the primary
but uh you know he wanted to this was a democrat who up until he died in 2009 i think it was
um was revered iconic a someone that was looked up to by by uh democrats he killed somebody
and tried to cover it up uh and and then you get the democratic party which is supposed to be the
or not supposed to be they fancy themselves this amazing moral compass the people that are there
to tell you what's good and evil and who's being a good guy and a bad guy yeah next month it'll be um
um what was that 18 years 10 years nine years i have no idea it's math don't tell me about math uh
so yeah he he's looked at and they they fancy themselves as being these
morally superior to everybody and you know that's a prime example of that that hypocrisy
that we were just talking about in in uh this country uh you you think you'd hide your head
in the sand to go please don't look at me yeah you do what you want we go blow i i can't even
mention this because we have so many skeletons in our closet no they're going where the ones that
should be telling everybody how to live and lead their lives we know what's best for america and
there was this their hero kind of ran away and left the girl to suffocate in a sunken car uh
back in a matter of moments don't you go anywhere i'm going to tell you about an amazing stock
market i tried other brands but i came back to my sunshine for the best hot or cold pain relief
get the best get a sunny bay heating pad sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or solder
and the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad did you know that the american college
of physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy sunny bay heating
pads are handmade with high quality can be used at home or at work and have a lifetime 100 positive
rating on both amazon and etsy why take another pill many people use our sunny bay heating pads
alone and got rid of the neck pain long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can
take its toll on your body our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us that's
why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public
you can easily find sunny bay heating pads on amazon just go to amazon.com and search for sunny bay
heating pads do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread
the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been
on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now
because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info
wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get
between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more
than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people about the local
stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globlest and live in a free society several years ago
i set out with top formulators in the u.s. to create the strongest most concentrated over the
top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few
months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift
you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total
absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life
dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports
it's for activities and it's made in the us a get your alpha power today at info wars life
dot com everybody needs to try alpha power today nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your
gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your
host anthony koumia welcome back info wars dot com anthony koumia in uh i i i had a revelation
the other day um you saw what happened with the papa john's pizza did you papa john's pizza
uh apparently the guy john the the originator of the company uh you've seen him on all the
commercials papa john uh a while back because they they stopped uh letting him do commercials
because here's how the controversy started the nfl and papa john's pizza were uh partners you know
they're doing a lot of business together so papa john uh decides hey i'm gonna say something about
this kneeling thing this whole kneeling thing during the national anthem i don't like it i like
america whatever and uh so they they were like oh well your opinion why we gotta throw you out
if you voice an opinion we can't allow that so um that started the rocky road of uh the founder of
of papa john's so then they figure all right look we need some kind of a publicist some kind of a
repair crew to come in and repair this guy's reputation he's the face of papa john's pizza
uh the ceo he's on the board of directors uh we we can't have him uh as this bad guy so he gets on
the phone a conference call with uh some people in his company and this uh company called uh
what was it called laundry something laundry it was a cleaning company so they they uh get
on the phone with him and apparently papa john decides at that point he's gonna drop an n bomb
on the phone during this conference call i believe he was uh trying to let the people
know that colonel sanders had used uh the n word uh referring to black people back in his day with
kentucky fried chicken and uh never suffered any ill effects from from saying that not the best
thing you could do there papa john but anyway so uh the stock just takes a hit takes a hit that day
bam down a few percent so that i hit me it hit a light bulb went off in my head i thought this is
the liberal outrage and then corporate knee jerk that we have seen time and time again
uh uh a a ceo an employee a higher up in a company says something incredibly stupid
the company fires them sends off that heartfelt apology and everything's back to normal everything's
fine and dandy again so i'm like i'm not going to give you a lesson in options trading but
what i did i bought the chance to buy papa john stock at a low price so it gave me the opportunity
to say i'm betting that papa johns will go back up that's all it is your betting is like it's like
uh casino wall street i'm like i'm gonna bet now even though papa johns took a dump right there
because uh john said something stupid the mechanics are all still there they're still making pizza
they're still delivering a lot of pizza it's amazing so i uh i i i did it i got on my little
e-trade app and i i went online and and i bought uh options that bet that papa johns go back up
up low and behold the next day they say well we we've gotten rid of john you'll never see him
again he's has nothing to do with this pizza anymore and by the way we here at papa john's
pizza want an inclusive and diverse and tolerant company that will up the same just change the
name of the company it's the same speech the same please please we didn't do this it was that guy's
speech well don't you know within 24 hours not even i punched out and made uh over $2,500
in a quick less than 24 hours so i'm like this is great you can actually finally make money
on the outrage like i figured out how to capitalize on liberal outrage slash corporate knee jerk
so so a couple of days later i'm looking now i'm just looking for this stuff and tesla
elon musk from tesla was mad at one of the divers from the thailand rescue the kids that
were in the cave uh one of the divers said that elon musk's submarine he had that big thing it
looked like a sexual pleasure device that uh he was going to put in the cave and put a kid in and
pull the kid out and do that a few times and the divers said well this is crazy it's a publicity
stunt it never would have worked so then uh so elon musk called him a pedo guy he goes sorry pedo guy
you really uh did ask for it he uh was making um his accusations that the diver was a pedophila
was a pedo a pedo uh so again tesla stock takes a die and i'm like this is just like the papa
john's thing he's still building rockets he's still building cars nothing changed except
someone said something stupid people got outraged knee jerk reaction it it's perfect
so again i bought options betting that tesla stock would go up less than 24 hours later
i'm cashing out again and there we go i made another three thousand dollars on that one
i tell you this is the greatest strategy ever in the stock market i am literally making money on
liberal outrage i get so annoyed by it on twitter mainstream media everything i'm like god i can't
stand this they're constantly bitching and complaining about everything and then on that
that day uh last week with papa john's it hit me and i gotta tell you all i do now is paw through
the business news looking for someone that said something stupid and looking for the company
that has to just make the biggest deal of it and you watch that stock go down and the very next day
when they do damage control right back up again so liberal outrage is able to be monetized
so uh i'm actually thinking about maybe sending some uh minorities out with tape recorders to
corporate executives to get them to say something terrible to them can i do that is that insider
trading or something i hope not no obviously a joke i would never never do anything like that
because quite frankly it just happens enough that i don't even have to spur anything on
i just have to keep my eyes open and look for right look for that guy look for someone who's
outraged actually i um i had my eye on texas instruments the ceo of texas instruments just got
fired and uh it was very suspicious what did they call it personal conduct unbecoming to the company
so they had to get rid of them but until we know what it was we can't be outraged so i hope they're
not going to start using this strategy is to not let us know what uh this guy did because i need to
know we need him to to say something where a group gets outraged there it is uh texas instruments
loses job for personal misconduct now that could be sexual harassment could be a racist slur it
could be some type of homophobic thing uh maybe even just having a liaison with an employee i don't
know but the whole way this works is if you actually know what happened borders it happened
to the the border ceo too he got the boot and they didn't really say what it was so uh i need i
need information on those things so i can make money off of outrage we'll be right back don't
go anywhere anthony comey in at info wars dot com anyone who's studied history and knows how human
systems work is horrified we have global hardcore anti-human psychopaths in control of the big
corporations they're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control dumb humanity down
ahead of replacing us with machines and trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a
human future they are launching a civil war against nation states right now collapsing our borders
and my only message is this everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now everybody should
be very very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and launching their
anti-human plan because they crave to control people those of us that are pro-human don't crave
power we already have the power but we have to realize these scum are coming after us and
we have to speak out and take action now info wars is on the front line and so are you we are the
resistance info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest
release winner sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winner sun is a premium quality vitamin d3
nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as
lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and
allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winner sun is the
result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two
years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product
in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winner sun vitamin d3 not only does
vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something
the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-2533139
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all new version of
the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill and quickly become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com choose to take control of your chemistry with
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your
thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of
100% organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced
of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order
to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with
inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall
brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
you found it the tip of the spear it is the alex jones show with anthony kumia
defeat the democrat censorship sale free shipping up to 67% off store-wide alpha power 50% off
with free shipping vitamin mineral fusion 50% off with free shipping bio true selenium 50% off
hey how about that free shipping brain force plus 50% off free shipping super male and super
female vitality 50% off of course free shipping dna plus uh force plus uh 50% off free shipping
super blue product oh 50% off free shipping silver bullet 9.95 with free shipping uh that's
995 i thought it was uh the thing no that's the price real red pill heard about that and real
red pill plus 50% off free shipping survival shield x2 40% off with free shipping knockout
that would be 1776 what a price free shipping super silver wound dressing gel 25% off with
free shipping true alpha male pack super male vitality and alpha power 50% off free shipping
vitality and balance pack super male vitality and real red pill 50% off free shipping mind and body
mind and body challenge pack uh brain force plus with real red pill 50% off free shipping x2 bio
true selenium combo survival shield x2 and bio true selenium 50% off free shipping info wars life
mind and body pack brain force plus and vitamin mineral fusion 50% off free shipping it's amazing
help yourself out people uh my goodness again i i can't tell you how much i love
hollywood ba da da da da hollywood these people are all effing insane they got no brain it's
whatever it is they there's something going on in hollywood that prevents these people from having
a single rational thought they have no uh ability to reason to figure things out they live in a bubble
pretty much i was having a conversation on my program the other day um on compound media
anthony kumia show but i was having a conversation the other day about how the fame this fame that
they get in hollywood is detrimental to uh your social skills i would gather people talk about
being rich and famous all right uh do do they deserve do hollywood celebrities deserve that
much money for what they're doing it doesn't seem like a hard work i've done roofing that's pretty
hard i've installed air conditioning and heating uh mechanics on a rooftop pretty tough work acting
i don't know doesn't seem that hard a lot of it seems like you're sitting around for most of the
time while everyone else is working but uh i think the the financial compensation is because
they know people are going to clamor around you no matter what you do so i think you're literally
being compensated for the fact that you can't do anything do you think tom cruise could go to the mall
and just hang out or go to a movie someone at that level of fame and a lot of the people that
have the most to say on twitter about you know how we should lead our lives are leading that kind of
life they are unable to go out and live a life like 99.99% of the rest of the country so that
compensation i think is to say here build yourself a fortress of solitude away from everyone else
live in a bubble you could visit other people that have their fortresses and have to live like this
because they can't go out but then they think ah i i have this life i have this money i have this
fame i have the inability to go out and stuff but you know i still have something to say oh god what
are you doing no you don't enjoy your pool enjoy your company enjoy your drugs and your booze and
whatever else you guys are doing out there your kinky sex and have uh and have fun but they can't
they gotta say stuff and they gotta express themselves in this this uh childlike way and for
that i gotta bring up uh of course rosio donnell and uh jim carrey look at this people don't live
like that people aren't whisked away into a waiting suv by bodyguards that would literally kill for you
or be killed for you while while people uh take photos and it just doesn't happen you cannot
conjure up reasonable assessments of life around you if that's your life you got nothing to say
hey you can't do it i'm on the long island railroad every day people i'm amongst the common man
look at that how the oh yeah that happened to me when i was just walking out of the bathroom
i was just uh walking out of the bathroom i just got uh blindsided by by a bunch of people
but uh you get the likes of uh yeah rosio donnell one of my favorite follows be careful
if you follow rosio donnell you will be tempted to tweet horrible things about her and it's so
easy to come up with them but she will block you and then you will miss the fund and hijinks that
is rosio donnell's twitter account um she has taken to painting we've touched on it a few times before
on this program but she has taken to painting as an outlet to her trump derangement syndrome that
so many have gotten and uh she's terrible i mean honestly if she's going to put her paintings out
there uh they're awful and all i can do is picture her getting like watching the news
oh trump Mcportons trump Mcportons giving away the whole country where are my paints
where are my paints and then you just get some some mental institution attendant rosie do you
have your oh i got my paint i'm gonna paint out trump i'm gonna paint him i'm gonna put
criminal on the side rosie why don't you uh why don't you go on an audition or something i can't
paint them she they've lost their minds who does this i was none too happy when barack who's saying
obama got elected uh ten or so years ago i was not a happy camper the last thing i thought it was
to get some pain that pain i got pain i'm proud of that and put criminal look at her she's she's
that crap crazy i'll say it that way but they are they've they've lost their mind and and the whole
thing of taking it out and paint what is that what is that painting oh is she just terrible
and does she post pictures of herself and stuff and it just you could see the deterioration that
is going on with these people they can't seem to physically it's eating away at them like
roseo donald before trump looked like roseo donald's looked for years you know he kind of
rotund now i don't even know what it is she she posts pictures you don't even seem to want to
take care of herself anymore they're all like this my buddy uh yeah yeah look that's just what is this
this is what they look at my painting i gotta paint a big owl behind me
she's taken to painting like like an emotionally disturbed child because that's really what they are
anytime you hear things again about the trees in it roseo more michael more another one just
mental just a mental patient he's talking about how horrible it was that donald trump is not
supporting the cia and fbi and other uh law enforcement and and intelligence agencies around
the country uh and it's terrible and it's unamerican the guy made a movie about how the
intelligence community got us into a war you made the movie they they they're like children
that are constantly changing the rules to the game there's a set of rules you can't just change a
mid game like a five-year-old would very childlike uh thinking there's no real look she's a broken
where's my finger page where are my page they're they're uh mental uh one more mental thing quickly
before we leave here natalie portman uh has a video uh with forpita and she compares animal
treatment for food to the holocaust and especially chickens she thinks chickens are being um murdered
like in the holocaust again no reasoning do you know how many chickens have to die to keep
people alive in this country millions upon millions of chickens every day what are you
gonna do if there's no chickens we can all graze like you we can all graze the prairie like natalie
portman uh thank you so much anthony comia from compound media dot com check out check out my show
in for info wars dot com thank you
years ago info wars life created the powerful michael's vx formula to help you combat internal
yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team
knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is
the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's
natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body fight
back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive tract
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes on chat powered by an
impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed extract
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing
properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com
that's info wars life dot com do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary
and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying
that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the
world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the
word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than
ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's
no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name
and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to but the bare minimum you can do
is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning you're listening to the alex jones show
