From the Frontlines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Yesterday, Anderson Cooper kicked off his brand new Facebook livestream, which he's
going to be doing five days a week, which Facebook is paying CNN to produce.
Let's take a look and see how it went.
Now, as I said, remarkable.
It didn't take long for Democrats to chastise President Trump, probably no surprise there.
Some Republicans also condemned the president, most notably Senator John McCain, said in
a statement, I want to read part of it to you.
You may be wondering what that noise is in the background, and it's actually an audio
track that they played throughout the entire broadcast, trying to be like some cool, hip,
millennial YouTube vlogger, which plays annoying background music during their entire YouTube
video.
Later in the show, he was joined by Jim Acosta, and as you can see by the live viewer
count here, they didn't even have 5,000 people turning into the stream.
And look at this, they're formatting the show vertically for mobile devices, because apparently
their audience doesn't know that you could turn your phone sideways and expand it full
screen when you're watching media.
Later in the stream, Anderson decided to answer some audience questions to make the show interactive.
And by that time, the viewership had dropped down to under 4,000 people.
What story did you do that had a long-lasting effect on you personally?
There's been so many places I've been that have really been life-changing and eye-opening
and mind-vending, and you know, you see a lot of people, and the greatest satisfaction
I get from the job is...
Is making $11 million a year, or if you break it down per episode with five episodes a week,
that's over $45,000 per show.
Oh, and speaking of money, Facebook is reportedly paying CNN $5-10 million a year to produce
this new five-day-a-week streaming show called Anderson Cooper Full Circle.
Let's do the math on that, shall we?
That's $5 million divided by 12 months divided by four weeks divided by five shows a week.
That's $20,833.33 per episode of his streaming show, which capped out at about 6,000 viewers.
His show was such a failure that by the end of the 30-minute livestream, they actually
hid the number of viewers, and then it just showed the little red live button without
the viewer count.
And here he is later on CNN begging people to tune in to his new Facebook show.
One last note.
Today we were proud to kick off something new, a live interactive daily newscast on Facebook.
It's called Full Circle on it.
You'll see great interviews with the day's biggest newsmakers, a quick look at the day's
hottest stories online as well, stories that you yourself decide on.
We've been working hard getting it ready, incorporating your feedback.
It's a really interactive broadcast, trying to make it as special and different as possible.
You can access it at facebook.com slash Anderson Cooper Full Circle.
That's one word.
Discover what tens of thousands of followers already have.
We'll see you there.
No, you won't, because nobody's watching.
Anderson was so disappointed in President Trump's press conference with Vladimir Putin
yesterday that as soon as it finished, he had this to say.
You have been watching perhaps one of the most disgraceful performances by an American
president at a summit in front of a Russian leader, the only that I've ever seen, an extraordinary
press conference.
I'm back with CNN Global Affairs analyst Susan Glasser, CNN senior political analyst
David.
Gee, I wonder why you can't even get 5,000 people to watch your new Facebook show, Anderson.
Of course, with the liberal media creating new Trump-Potent conspiracy theories almost
every day, seeing the two of them standing next to each other was just more than they
could bear.
Even Arnold Schwarzenegger, who's trying to be a YouTuber now, posted a rant on his
official YouTube channel in portrait mode, of course, with two giant black bars on the
side of it, which got a whopping 12,000 views.
President Trump, I just saw your press conference with President Putin, and it was embarrassing.
I mean, you stood there like a little wet noodle, like a little fanboy.
I mean, I was asking myself, when are you going to ask him for an autograph or for
a selfie or something like that?
I mean, you've literally sold out the press conference, our intelligence community, our
justice system, and worst of all, our country.
You're the president of the United States, you shouldn't do that, and what's the matter
with you?
I'm sorry, Arnold, but shouldn't you be taking care of your illegitimate son that you had
with your Mexican maid?
Liberals got so bent out of shape over Trump's press conference with Putin that former CIA
operative and current CNN contributor Phil Mudd called for the shadow government to take
over the country.
Serious point in American government, when do we see almost a shadow government come
out and say, we cannot side with the government, whether it's the cabinet or the Senate?
I think that's the big question.
But frankly, look, frankly, you're literally calling for a deep state coup.
By the way, yesterday's...
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lelani estates, but a lot of us on the big island
rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
And more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
We have forced the enemy out in the open.
MSNBC, CNN, ABC News, Forbes, ABC News, Australia, the BBC, the London Guardian, Verspeagle.
There's over a thousand articles a day.
Local TV, radio, beyond that, lying and demonizing info wars, and yours truly, Alex Jones, and
calling for us to be shut down, calling for us to be banned, calling for us to be removed,
and then building straw men lying about what we've said and done to then try to set the
precedent for everybody else.
And just as night follows day and day follows night, no sooner had they put strikes on my
YouTube and Facebook accounts and blocked us on most of the accounts from live streaming
that's a very small part of our audience, but for CNN, it's a giant audience, they're
very jealous of it.
I'll get to that in a minute.
Anderson Cooper's total failure with 4,000 viewers on his new Facebook show that they
paid $18 million for and that his force fed and push notifications to tens of millions
of people.
They shadow banned us and our videos have hundreds of thousands or millions of views.
They force feed Anderson Cooper and he had 4,000 viewers in the entire show.
That's by the way, in the newspapers today, it's very, very embarrassing for them.
That's why I led in that little first segment of you just tuned in with Mark Dice breaking
it all down.
I mean, Mark Dice's average video used to have 5 million views.
They were so jealous of him, they shadow banned him, so now, you know, he has a half
million views, doesn't matter, he just does more and is, you know, proliferating into
other areas.
So, this is the craziness of all of this.
These people are total jokes.
So now Anderson Cooper and Acosta that was on with him, they now do these things in studios
like they're outside with a vertical video and you hear car noises and music and stuff
in the background like he's really out on the street.
And I sort of noticed this a few weeks ago, Cooper does feeds now on CNN where it's not
an external mic, it's a internal mic.
So, it's really bad audio and they're doing it on purpose.
They think it's the low quality that makes people watch, no.
People want to watch other people that they think are independent.
They'd rather watch independent people on a slick platform, but they do not want to watch
you, look, you could put fudge icing on a dog turd, but once somebody bites into it,
they're going to spit it out.
You can go, oh no, I'm putting more fudge on, no amount of hot fudge on the dog dropping
is going to make people eat it and CNN is beyond a dog dropping.
It's beyond fake news.
I sent them a letter today on notice for torsus interference, you know, I don't just follow
lawsuits to follow my follow back and win them 100%.
And they are on television saying, take me off the air and then lying about what I said
and then calling publishers and getting publisher people fired because I'm working on a book
with one of the top selling authors who's alive, Neil Strauss, The War for the Future,
Secret History of the World and The War for the Future.
That isn't a book that sells 10 million, what doesn't?
Everyone knows it's the super head.
Of course, after you try to ban it, then we'll of course publish it ourselves.
We already knew you'd all do this.
You've just walked right into our trap as usual, but the point is, is that you're still
very, very dangerous because you may not have any viewers, but you've got a huge army of
leftist foundation operatives, SJWs, intelligence operatives at CNN, at MSNBC, and that is the
deep state.
CNN is the tip of the iceberg, but it's the visible part of the deep state.
And under what you see on the surface with Anderson Cooper and the rest of them is the
enemy.
And that's why President Trump has called them the enemy, but they're the ones calling
for violence.
They're the ones out trying to restrict everybody's speech ahead, ahead.
This is critical of the midterms to suppress our speech so that we're not able to speak
out or show you video of what really happens at Antifa events or leftist attacking people.
I've got so many riveting videos today, but we're having to bleep them of leftist attacking
people all over the country.
If they see you in an American flag shirt, if they see you in a Trump hat, if they see
you in a Make America Great Again shirt, I mean, you're talking about a group of racially
charged Hispanics in California at the destroyed star, Hollywood star of Donald Trump, believing
the propaganda of CNN and all the race force stuff, attacking Joy Vila, who is Hispanic,
by the way, and a couple of white dudes, Marine Corps veterans, that are just out there to
exercise their free speech, but even 15 gangbangers couldn't beat up the two white dudes.
Now, that's because they're punks.
It's absolutely pathetic to see how the Democratic Party is trying to turn Hispanics, blacks,
whites, you name it, into leftist KKK members to go out and attack people, the articles
on infowars.com.
So they don't want all this being reported that the literal modern brown shirts are taking
control of the streets, CNN, MSNBC are putting out lies to Congress, trying to legitimize
why they're banning people, they're shadow banning most members of Congress.
It's going on and on and on.
To our now in Los Angeles, many Hispanic Americans believe any white person that supports Trump
deserves to be physically attacked 15 to one because they're a Nazi.
There's also footage of a black reporter and a white reporter just out calmly asking SJWs
at a pro Maxine Waters rally about what's going on.
And I know about this particular show, one guy's a liberal actually, they're just pro
free speech and they get chased and attacked, screaming in word at the black reporter.
Just like you see the videos coming out that if we show it, they say we're racially insensitive.
Liberal news can show the border patrol and ICE and police that are out at these events
and occupy this, occupy that and then they run up to the black cops, white people and
scream in word, in word, in word.
And then if we pointed out, they take down our videos saying we called somebody an in
word.
Did you hear Jones had a video taken down for in word?
Yeah, showing you saying it.
But see, since they take the video down, you don't even know what's going on.
Just like they said, it was on local radio, it was on local TV, I guess KVUE did it.
And I got cousins calling me in each taxes going, yeah, we heard on the news, you beat
up a child.
It was that one of your kids, they would show the video and I said, no, that was Missouri
kid, it was a kid beating up adults and one guy pushed him down, it was on ABC News, I
showed it.
And then the news went, wait, we can say that's child endangerment, take the video down, just
say child endangerment, Forbes said I beat a kid up and there's now filings at the Travis
County Courthouse, people are down there trying to do TROs to take my kids and they're holding
up the article.
And the news locally won't say it's not true.
They are actively on the news saying, well, we can't get into it because of children's
privacy, but Jones beat up a child and my phone's ringing and I got family going, are
you okay?
Did you really beat up a child?
I'm like, no, it's, it's like warfare, they're about to, and here's the key to everything.
They wouldn't be doing all this because this is so discrediting to them that they weren't
planning a total takeover soon.
They're launching, as I said, towards the end of summer, early fall in their own admissions,
a massive civil unrest situation to bring in a national emergency and CNN's own comments.
So that's what's happening.
And even Facebook put out a statement saying we were reviewed, CNN's complaint calling for
M4s to be shut down, and he did not say they were crisis actors or that no one died.
And CNN doesn't even know what to do, I'll show you screenshots of the Twitter of Facebook
saying that, so here's the deal, it's a lot bigger than M4 wars.
They're making their move, the globalist are counter striking, Hollywood owned by the
Chai Combs is doing that.
It's incredible.
It is unbelievable.
They're going for broke.
They're about to make their big move, everybody watch your six, don't let them intimidate
you, just keep getting the word out, we're winning.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best, get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work and
have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-paid patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee beans, carefully harvested, and free of toxic chemicals used
in big agricultural productions.
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what
you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at InfowarsStore.com.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest, fan-favorite
products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, and healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, will quickly become one of our fellow
Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost
at it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfowarsStore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So, CNN has been on national news, lying about Infowars, lying about everything else
that's pro-America, and they've been caught.
And Facebook said, no, he didn't say nobody died at Parkland, and so they went ahead and
moved on, then, to saying that I beat up a kid, and Forbes did it as well.
And now that's the national headline.
Without even looking for my name, I go to, like, yahoo, CNN, and it's like, Alex Jones
blocked on YouTube for child endangerment, child shoved to the ground, we won't show
you the graphic video of what happened to the child, and everybody just goes, and that's
next-level defamation, because Forbes said I beat a kid up.
Others just leave it out there.
So people call me, they go, what happened to the kid?
Who was the kid?
You know, we don't think you'd attack a child, Alex, and I go, no, I didn't, it's fake news.
And they go, they go, they're that bad now?
Wow, this country really is in trouble.
Now, Tucker Carlson is under big-time attack, because he pointed out the obvious.
They've had Jim Acosta and his producer and all this fake news at CNN constantly in the
face of Trump during everybody else's questions, you name it, during the press conferences,
just dominating him.
So the producer for one of the CNN shows, that used to be the producer for Tucker Carlson
when he was there, she got blocked for the week.
Now, they already have thousands that want to get in, only a few hundred to get in.
And so it's normal, but CNN always just expects it's in there.
So they didn't get their week pass coming up.
So oh, Brian Skelter's up there.
Oh, it's so horrible for First Amendment, the president's trying to destroy it.
Meanwhile, he comes back next segment and brags, we're very close to banning Alex Jones
and shutting down a speech.
That's how they don't think there's any logic or memory going on here.
So here is Tucker Carlson, who by the way, the Democrats are in the news now calling
for him to be de-platformed and a bunch of other conservatives, like Stephen Crowder
and Stephen Malinu, because they know what's happening.
They know they're losing.
And so they misrepresent in Newsweek CNN, they go, Tucker Carlson defends Alex Jones,
bullying the Parkland students and saying no one died.
And Tucker Carlson defends child endangerment, all hoaxes, all lies.
Just like they say, every hour on the hour, Trump hates Hispanics and says they're all
rapists and criminals.
So then everybody shows up at the Trump star that's been pickaxed
and you beat up the white people because, well, they're obviously bad.
I mean, Donald Trump means Hal Hitler, right?
That's the brainwashing and that footage is coming up.
That's where they're trying to take this country, totally divided by the media and the globalist
and the Chinese government that oppresses their own people, openly manipulating it, trying
to stop our government getting control of our country again.
America has been captured by foreign interest, period.
And they're using weaponized garbage to do it.
And Tucker Carlson points this out another piece that Brian Stelter said is hateful
and needs to be removed.
So see, once they start policing in full wars, it's everybody.
Just like they started shadow banning members of Congress last week, just like I told them
that was coming.
And now people are awake because they're going too far, too fast because they're desperate
because the midterms are coming because the blue wave is going to fail, they believe.
And I believe that will as well, unless there's election fraud and so they don't know what
to do.
They're scared.
They've been caught doing all this stuff.
So now they're going to go for broke.
Here is Tucker Carlson last night.
The big story in Washington today is that Caitlin Collins over at CNN was prevented from
covering an event at the White House yesterday.
And Caitlin worked for me for years.
She's a fair and decent person and I don't think she should have been prevented from
covering anything.
That's my position.
But CNN has been basically a martyr for free speech for the last 24 hours.
At the same time, they're telling us how important it is that people should be able to say what
they think they are agitating for Alex Jones to be pulled off YouTube.
Now, I know we're supposed to think that Alex Jones is way more radical than like Bill
Marr, Michelle Wolfe or Rosie O'Donnell, but he's got a point of view and CNN is trying
to squelch his point of view.
What do you make of that?
Yeah, you know, I'm all in favor of CNN getting all the access that it wants to the White
House.
I want all reports to get all the access that they want at the White House.
Me too.
But you're right.
The hypocrisy is just astounding.
And I guarantee you that if you flipped over to CNN right now, there would not be a single
story about the Twitter shadow banning, there would not be a single story.
And the only story you would see about YouTube pulling Alex Jones videos would be probably
something celebratory about, you know, a scalp of sorts for managing to eventually get their
way on that story.
And you know, I look at all of the consternation about Donald Trump and this White House.
But you know, my goodness, this has been going on for absolutely ever.
You know how the White House press shop works, you know, at press conferences, the president
always picks who he wants to ask him questions.
Often the staffers go around and talk to the reporter beforehand.
It's almost, as far as I'm concerned, it's the same as planting questions because you're
basically setting who it is that's going to ask you a question.
So you know, all of these concerns suddenly about access and free speech at the White
House, come on.
I mean, there's so many problems with the White House press court to begin with that,
you know, you never hear any of that.
I've never heard this level of consternation before now.
So CNN, MSNBC, the Democratic Party, they all call for me to be banned for months.
And then Facebook and YouTube catch CNN in a bunch of lies, but then they say, well,
we can objectively then just kind of make up that you've done something here.
We'll go ahead ban Alex Jones on this.
And here it is.
Facebook suspends personal profile.
Then for his founder Alex Jones, CNN, celebrating right now, they say he bullied a child.
I showed ABC news footage so they won't show you the footage.
Paul Watson has an article up on info wars.com that shows the four banned videos, but that's
not even what's important.
The live streaming on those platforms, that one has 2 million followers, then doesn't
let us broadcast, it's what they call it, it's a transmission to people.
So CNN is effectively having its victory, its porous interference in the market, lying,
having an ad campaign, a hoax, to then bully corporations into setting the precedent to
restrict me so they can then expand that to everyone else, which then I've got the stacks
of articles coming up.
They're having big international TV conventions right now, two of them where they're calling
for Fox News to be de-platformed, and the Republican Party and countless Republican
congressmen and women can't even post now to their Facebooks or Twitters and their shadow
ban.
Shadow banning has been going on five years.
They've ratcheted up from 50% to 90% of conservative posts being blocked.
You could say, man, I really like President Trump, you can't do that.
So they act like, oh, we're just banning Alex Jones and they're not.
So it's here, it's exponential censorship ahead of the midterms and ahead of civil
unrest they want to start.
That's why this is critical, but here's the good news, you, the listeners and viewers
of this show, every color creed, red blooded humans that I love, you expose this and now
shadow ban is the household term.
People now know how they're being censored, they're getting together, they're realizing
it and that's why Facebook's plunging, that's why the globalists are in trouble.
So now they're going to accelerate their plan towards total censorship in desperation.
That will only detonate their downfall that much quicker.
But Tucker Carlson knocked it out of the park again, I'm going to play that when we come
back.
Stay with us.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos
on the market at Slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of Slingbow, a new frontier
in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill, only at Slingbow.com.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship, I'm a former decorated CIA officer, finally someone has come out
and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a
shadow government.
We got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people
are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give a library, to give you a church, to get them
right now at killingunclesambook.com, killingunclesambook.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Globlest.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats, that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
InfoWars Life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from
berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your
body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well
as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products.
You can get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high
quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today at InfowarsLife.com.
Feeling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it
right.
Combine floral life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Floral life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
Being paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try floral life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
By the way, I've always said on air that if I found somebody more effective than me and
more on target than I would point that person out.
Not that I'm that good, but my strong points were very strong.
Tucker Carlson is that person, there's no doubt, so if the media picks up on my particular
love fest, I love my children, I love the truth, and Carlson, the way he lays it out
and the way he's hit his stride is, I mean, it's about as close to perfection there is.
Obviously, he has his moments and nobody's perfect, but it's like, he's hitting about
a 99 here.
And that's why Stelter and all these no talent cookballs want him off the air, because he
points out what they've said and what they've done, not like Stelter saying, Joe's bullied
a small child and beat him up.
He's been taken off YouTube.
Total lie.
Doesn't matter if Forbes said it, doesn't matter if you get Facebook to agree to it.
When Carlson talks about something, he shows it.
You're a radio looser, you can't see it, but I'm showing Forbes and others retracting that
I wasn't in Missouri a month ago, I didn't beat up some kid that was punching me in
the face.
The guy didn't even look like me, but right now we can't stream on YouTube or my main
Facebook account because YouTube was lobbied by CNN, CNN says they lobbied for this.
And again, why would CNN be spending all its time and all its energy doing this?
Because they're globalists, they work for multinational corporations, they work for
the Communist Chinese.
Americans aren't an afterthought.
If Carlson isn't going all the way because his audience isn't ready yet, Americans are
the enemy of CNN, just as Trump has said.
And they're globalists and that's their model and that's their plan, so that's coming up.
And then I've got all the clips, I say all the clips, there's so much cussing, it takes
the crew hours to bleep it all.
Like five minutes of video, you got to bleep it like 80 times, just beep, beep, beep, beep.
But we're on broadcast TV and stuff, so we got to cover up people flipping folks off,
we have to do all that.
And it is Democrats just beating people up everywhere.
It's just exponentially increasing, so it's a huge deal.
But also at the start of the next segment, I'm going to read to you on air my letter
officially to CNN, putting them on notice of lawsuit.
And of course, you notice when I sue people, it's not in the news.
But I've countersued a bunch of folks, a lot of lawsuits have been dropped, but that takes
a lot of money to finance what we're doing.
This is a war.
You think we're going to take America back from the chai comms and the globalists and
the big banks and Hollywood that literally has mounted America's head on the wall?
Do you think these people that in their own private recordings call you flyover country
and bitter clingers and say how much they hate you on Bill Maher and all these shows?
Do you think it's going to be easy to take it all back from them?
No.
It's certainly not going to be easy for those of us on the front line, but I'll tell
you, it's a lot better than living under their scumbag control, so I'm very honored to be
part of this contest of liberty.
It's very animating.
So I'll play the Tucker Club that Stelter says is hateful and un-American and you know,
once censored.
People say, why do you focus on Stelter?
He has like 100,000 viewers.
He's a total joke, but he's the mouthpiece of the establishment, so you're hearing from
them when you hear that monster, that anti-free speech defiler, that deceiver.
He is the mouth of the enemy.
So we're going to do that here in just a moment.
If it isn't clear now, it'll never be clear that if you want to truly be part of the Second
American Revolution, and if you really want to be part of the zeitgeist, everyone listening
should buy a shirt at infowarstore.com.
That finances what we're doing, our fight against the globalists, our continued operations.
It spreads the word.
You can get them all on lobby where you just meet fellow patriots, or if you want to wear
a Trump 2020 shirt or a Relic 45 and go into a blue area, you might get killed, but I mean,
it's choose your own adventure.
We have hundreds of amazing shirts from shirts I designed 20-something years ago, like mass
murderers agree, gun control works, politicians love disarm peasants, to the new info wars
logo shirt and army green.
We got made America shirts, we got made Mexico shirts, it's all there for you to choose from.
Visit infowarstore.com or AAA-253-3139 and you know, a lot of people claim they want
America to continue and they claim that they, you know, well, if I ever see UN troops, I'll
go to war.
Listen, we already kicked the UN troops out.
We already took the country back at the federal level partially.
This is an info war to silence the patriots and cause civil insurrection to bring in a
crisis to then bring in the UN, which is officially in the strong cities initiative that Obama
tried to launch with a little retta lynch three months before he left office.
If you won't get involved politically now in the streets and information warfare, you'll
never get involved if we fail in these defensive steps to try to save things peacefully.
And I'm not bitching at the listeners and viewers, I love you, but the power of you
wearing these shirts in public, the power of you downloading the free iPhone and drawing
it up info wars.com, forward slash app, the new official app, much better than last app.
It's excellent.
The power of you spreading the word and taking action, the power of you telling your office,
Hey, you ever hear these bad things about Alex Jones?
Yeah, it's all over.
Who is he?
What is he the guy that beat up a little kid the other day?
Well, no, actually, it's not true here.
Hear from him yourself.
Find out.
Doesn't everybody want to know the thing that everybody's so afraid of?
Well, by the way, look at that new one.
That shirt's brand new.
Go to George Washington, please.
It's it's the it's the right, right there.
Click on that George Washington.
That is put together by one of the former leaders of still team six who runs a big t-shirt
companies, big Patriot.
That was already their best seller.
And he let me put that out.
So I'm going to say his name is one of his names on there, obviously, but and show him
the back.
That is an awesome shirt.
George George Washington, not the old George Washington, nothing bad that he was old, but
that's the young George Washington, you know, the 50 year old French India war towards Washington.
And it says in full wars.com with the original 13 that is an out of the park shirt that everybody
should order.
It's amazing.
It's 1995 with the fabric and the printing and Texas and everything.
We're not making much money on that because it's an expensive shirt to make.
They're all there in full or store.com.
If you don't get them, you're insane.
I mean, literally, I'm here frontline battling, winning, fighting, getting attacked, and I'm
not bitching.
I want to thank you all for your support.
But when you just commit and buy the products and then meet like-minded people, it's a whole
new world you get involved in.
It's a whole new adventure.
Now that said, we have come out with two months supplies of from our research in the top studies
and testing the cleanest fish oil.
The fish oil is magic as everybody knows.
So good for the heart, the brain, the body, the skin.
But if you get it from big fish, it's got a lot of mercury and it's not good for you.
Well, this has got the mercury extracted out of it and because the krill oil is easiest
to do is it's so small, it doesn't bioaccumulate, amazing.
We've got the ultimate fish oil, targeted release fish oil, so it actually goes into
your intestines, doesn't get burned up in your gut, then your stomach, and ultimate
fish oil.
Now, honor rolls also over here.
This is for your kids.
This is all the known fish oils that are good for the brain targeting that.
So it's amazing.
Go look at what it does for yourself.
But let me just show, TV viewers, if you can go study fish oil and learn about the ones
that really matter, but this, see when they're yellow, they've been denatured.
When they're peach, pink, orange, in fact, a lot of companies will actually dye or have
colored gelatin caps to make it have that color.
No, this is clear gelatin.
This is, I mean, it took us again years to actually know that we were putting out the
strongest, purest fish oil there is, and this is honor roll.
This is a whole big spectrum of the known omega threes and DHA and EPA and vitamin D
and E, so it gets uploaded.
This for your children is unbelievable.
It's a child-sized capital, but there's no filler.
It's concentrated.
Let me tell you something.
When I want energy, when I want stamina, when I want to, when I, you know, am down from
working 18 hours, man, I can do this right here, especially these children's ones.
These are so good because I went and tried to outdo a leading competitor.
I've been giving my children this for years.
That's rolling over there.
I've been doing this for years, but now we've got ours in it.
Just look at that.
Nobody's got that.
Nobody's got that vibrancy.
Yeah.
It funds the operation.
It fuels your brain, your body.
It's so good for you and your family.
Honor roll, ultimate fish oil, ultimate krill oil, infowarsstore.com, they're 25% off right
now out of the gates and your funding is absolutely critical of this war.
Total win-win.
Get these little jewels for yourself.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Infowars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced four-stage compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants
from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an
Infowars life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price, it's stronger, it's the other equation in probiotics
and knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months, it's got the preglinone that's the
precursor to all the natural hormones in your body, that it's got all the minerals and the
vitamins and amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four
to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do, you can also
swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more, without you
we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfowarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Infowar to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
at InfowarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Infowar
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfowarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfowarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfowarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
This is InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You know I didn't even cover this yesterday but on Monday I said that the Iranian National
Guard and Hezbollah, their force around the world would launch terror attacks during a
war with the U.S. all over the western world and they have sleeper cells inside the U.S.
That's actually standard Iranian doctrine and in fact not in public circles but classified
but from my own research the head of their military said that they have sleeper cells
inside the U.S. and will attack us during a war yesterday.
Next week's news today.
But how about next month's news today?
Can we pull it up?
Now it took us about five minutes during the break because Google buries all of our results.
But back on June 7th a month and a half ago I said according to our White House sources
and that's a CNBC article I said according to our White House sources we're going to
find it.
I'll tell you that's what since Google broke their search engine it drives me crazy that
I even tweeted it I even Facebooked it I did videos I said watch it's going to be 4.1 when
the next quarter comes in and they announced the last quarter and I can't even find it
because it's so buried.
See I have this OCD thing about clips about how I can't find the things.
I mean it's like I don't find your kids birth certificate you know what I mean and like
you know it was in this drawer and it's not there.
But everybody remembers I said it'd be 4.1 according to White House sources that were
in the economic meeting hell I had Roger Stone on about it twice it'll never be found.
I could have one trillion dollars and offer it and it would not be found.
The video would not be found the article would not be found.
I'll be in a coffee shop or at the grocery store in a month and some left us a walk over
and go how do you like it beating up kids got banned on the internet for child endangerment
beating that kid up.
For me to get up total lie total hoax they don't care because it's a world of delusion
it's like Stelter for a week one of our producers isn't allowed the White House because we keep
interrupting all the questions we're being censored oh god next segment we're going to
ban Alex Jones and we want Tucker Carlson off the air.
I figured out what I got to do when I make a prediction which it wasn't a prediction
we were told people in the meeting that was going to be 4.1 at least maybe 4.3 that's
the headline that I've got to actually take it glue it to a wall there's not that many
like one every couple days and they all come through but then it's impossible I will never
no matter what I do no matter how hard I try no matter I'll never have it just it will
not happen just won't this matter was multiple shows and articles and clips everywhere just
won't happen because the search engines hide everything we do because they want to lie
about who we are while they lie about us and destroy us so we can't respond that's how
they operate.
Oh there it is they found it mega agenda Trump's economy projected to grow 4% in the next quarter
how the liberals spend the news to make Trump look bad and then but see it should be prediction
we broke that here scroll down and then Roger goes into his White House economist that was
it yeah yeah just he talked to the the economist that was in the meeting with Cudlow and they
thought it could be even 4.3 but they weren't sure okay there it is okay okay wow hell just
froze over oh my god I feel so good right now maybe I should just play that clip next
hour because I mean I know we do this I know we predicted all and and and wasn't in prediction
I mean they were in the meeting and they cautioned the president don't don't say this yet sir
because stuff could happen but they thought 4.3 but they said some computer models show
4.1 it was all between 4.1 and 4.5 one model said five you know this weeks after we said
that there was a CNBC article that some model showed five but it was between basically four
and 4.5 so we were saying 4.1 so well that's 6% GDP growth right there point is this is
getting insane but it's all because oh I wasn't mad at the crew they couldn't find it Google
buries this stuff man they're not gonna let us sit there and always be right they can't
stand it their job is to lie Brian Stelter's job is to destroy the truth now let's go to
what they don't want you to see this this triggered CNN now I've learned three different
shows not just Stelter called it evil dangerous un-American ban it take it off I've got the
articles right here they're having a big international conference we're calling for Fox News to be
banned off Facebook here it is Facebook asked to justify info wars and Fox News deadline
Hollywood I mean this is what's going on and then next oh here's the next four conservatives
to be banned and you read all these articles it's like a step on my new and Steven Crowder
and then this girl isn't as big because conservatives don't like women what it's just all I told
everybody this is coming in now they're starting to lick their lips and go we want Joe Rogan
and pootie pie pan too because you've got billions of viewers over the years they don't think
Brian Stelter or Anderson Cooper who had 4,000 views on average his top was 5,000 in a show
for Facebook they push notification millions of people and they and they paid millions
for the show and all they've got is five four 5,000 viewers do you think Brian Stelter is
going to let that continue no no one wants to watch some billionaire rich you know kid
of the Asters are you off a teleprompter good lord here let's go to Anderson Cooper explaining
that America is an afterthought no it's not an afterthought Cooper go to the final one
percent where you get it where the enemy as the president has said here it is for more
than a hundred years the Democratic Party was organized around the interests of ordinary
Americans Democrats ran campaigns on things like higher wages better working conditions
against the banks that crush their voters with debt a lot of Democratic ideas didn't
always work some were silly but their focus was always clear American citizens were the
majority's priority and that is no longer the case to the modern Democratic Party Americans
are an afterthought try to find a Democrat running this year for example on the opioid
crisis or high energy prices the collapse of public schools the decline of the middle
class hard to find one Democrats are bored by these topics what interests them is power
in order to win and maintain power Democrats understand they need reliable new voters
voters will support them obediently without making difficult demands like a higher standard
of living that's why the Democratic Party suddenly supports open borders so fervently
immigration is really the only issue that matters to them because packing the electorate
is the only way they can regain control of this country their goal is clear they will
do this is so true is why they're calling for to be banned but remember the chai comms
are funding it to Anderson is exposed so it's beyond just that they want to sell the country
out they hate the country they've been trained and prepared for this continuum to achieve
it here for example is the governor of new york likening the trump administration to
islamic terrorists for the crime of daring to enforce federal immigration law watch they
are on a jihad to deport as many people as they can who they believe are not in the united
states legally who they believe are not in the united states legally pretty easy to determine
whether someone's here legally or not and it wasn't that long ago that leading democrats
like bill clinton for example argued in public that our country should deport illegal immigrants
they're here illegally after all they're breaking our law now democrats claim that non citizens
even illegal ones have a right to vote in our elections that is happening in san francisco
and in parts of the state of maryland by the 2020 election it'll be happening in many other
places that's guaranteed and remember that was a thing we made up to keep going republicans
would be upset about this allowing illegals to occupy and run our country makes a mockery
of citizenship it's terrible for america and it's a death sentence for the republican
party but nope republicans on the hill seem okay with this here's one example in 2014
the obama administration changed the rules so that anybody claiming a threat from gang
violence or domestic abuse could get asylum in the united states the effect was to allow
pretty much anybody to permanently enter this country provided they supplied the right story
and many many did of course that was precisely the point to open the border so that's saying
so well earlier this summer attorney general jeff sessions reversed the obama rule now
house republicans somehow for some reason are teaming up with democrats to stop sessions
from doing that because they think if they butt-kiss mainstream media they'll be nice
to them and then what they do the gays after he did that last week they shadow band you
bend over to these people they give it to you hour number two straight ahead great job
clicker carlson and that's why they want him shut down he's talking about the elephant
in the room that's why they want us all shut down they can shut me down they can shut you
down the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains
one of the most potent forms of tumeric available tumeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied urbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties our pure tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for
optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune
system and so much more regular tumeric root from the store only contains one to five percent
of active ingredients but our tumeric root extract contains over ninety five percent
of the active ingredients bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs such as spearmint
sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support try bodies today at
info wars life dot com or call us at one eight eight two five three three one three nine
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the
videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globalist
it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood
against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world
and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you
are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important
than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via
email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles
breaking news intel you name it and so now I ask you more than ever to share the info
wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're
listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars
dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
you're listening to the alex jones show
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the info war
all right if you go to the uk or you go to australia go to new zealand go to other areas
it's not just people being banned off the internet there are christians or conservatives
or patriots or nationalists it's being banned from countries being kicked out of nations
being totally shut down the australian press celebrate the occupiers of australia our shadow
ban us being restricted and then in line about what we did so we got a pastor who's been
persecuted joining us from australia and what unfolded coming up in the next segments this
is a serious situation we're gonna be looking at it but take the crew they're not the ones
that were bad earlier i want to be clear about not being able to find our prediction
from may put it back on screen before anybody else did with economists in the white house
meeting with cutlow looking at computer projections for the quarter when it ended being between
four and four point five percent maybe even higher we exclusively broke white house economists
predicts four plus percent growth rate scroll back up to the top on may twenty first it
wasn't till the middle of june you started hearing that from cnbc now again that's just
another bombshell we broke first with exclusive intel and what has google done they've already
delisted us they've already banned us from google ads they've already done all this youtube's
already blocking us we're subsidiary but now you try to search info wars dot com you try
to search i mean we ourselves google is a broken search engine it does not work i came
back during the break and i said stop using google you are not going to find anything
we do i go microsoft is bad but it's like the whole google it halfway works it's at least
somewhat fair use bang and i said no that's how we just found it on bang and start page
is great it's a virtual browser but it kind of uses google and others so you're still going
through them and i'm going to do a study of search engines because google until about
three years ago was the best big search engine but now it's just i mean you try to get anything
christian gun nationalistic it's all force fed the results are all paid and twitter censoring
they're all doing it they're shadow banning everybody remember we've been talking about
shadow banning for five years i was on the phone congressman two weeks ago saying you're
going to be shadow ban you're already being blocked look at our report they're only wood
wood and finally they looked and now it's a big story and i'm like i'm not that important
if they're shadow banning trump on twitter for three years we're almost none of his push
notifications go out you've got to go to his twitter to see it or the media is dumb enough
to pick it up then you see it the president should understand that i talked to folks that
talked to the president he didn't even understand this till a month ago now he understands it
now he's pointed out it's illegal so don't ever think your voice is small because all
of us that understand this our voices are huge together and this is a big time to be alive
but we're going to retweet this at real alex jones they shadow ban it but you can still
say look at shadow ban we're going to put it out flashback we should flashback in full
wars dot com broke 4.1 percent growth rate in may and just have a screenshot of our article
and a link right to it we need to have a flashback right now because again they keep saying
we're fake news and they lie about what we said they create fake news and say that we
said the fake news and then blame us and facebook came out and said no jones did not beat up
a child you know jones did not uh so that nobody died at parkland jones did not do these things
but didn't matter the pressure got put on the corporates and they banned us on our main
site reaching you know millions of subscribers and sure you say oh well you're on a sub site
still streaming at least we're on 200 plus radio stations hundreds and hundreds of tv
stations 80 plus cable stations that's great the point is is that if they can shut us down
they can shut everybody down and now they're calling for everybody else to be shut down
so i keep harping on this because globally they're making their move against the west
against christianity the chai comms are funding it from australia to the us they're the ones
doing it and if we wake up to that as a culture it will unify us around free speech and we
will win if we don't wake up they're going to win the midterms i want to plow into all
of this but i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clearer and so
it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com i want to thank everybody
that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with
high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got
the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well
infowarslife.com or triple a 253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us stands
with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile
armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back
against us so we need your support
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's alex jones over 20 years ago alex jones
created the media platform called info wars and in the decade since it's grown into a
truly remarkable institution with over 200 radio affiliates tens of millions of unique
website visitors monthly and a 24 7 live news tv channel broadcasting from state of the
art studios in austin texas info wars has become the most trusted independent news source
in the country dedicated to delivering breaking news live coverage of special events and exclusive
reports you won't find anywhere else while the old guard media struggles to maintain
supremacy in a landscape brought by innovation and technology info wars has been at the forefront
of the information revolution from 8 million radio listeners over 2 million youtube subscribers
or the billions of views of our online content info wars proves dominant in every facet of
media we enter for the hardest hitting reports uncompromising analysis for high profile interviews
and bombshell revelations except no substitutes demand truth demand info wars info wars tomorrow's
news today all right coming up to the last 45 minutes of the sour three quarters the
broadcast of the sour we're going to be talking to a pastor who's being demonized who's being
lied about who's being ostracized is being deported to foreign countries for preaching
the gospel in australia and new zealand that's coming up a pastor logan robertson whether
you agree with what he says or disagree actually go hear what he has to say not what the media
says because let me explain something and others just i keep saying it but i'm gonna
break this down the level of dis info and lives that we see out of corporate dinosaur
media all over the world now is five times more insane than during the campaign because
they were worried to push too hard and wake people up before with their lives so they
they rigged debates and they lied and they did and they said hillary didn't fall down
and all that they said anybody that votes for conservatives is a racist or whatever but
it didn't work so they went well we have no choice but to go all the way in now why is
cnn the new york times the washington post bbc i mean literally thousands of publications
a day saying ban info wars it's not about us because once they set the president for
us it's everybody and sure enough they're saying ban fox news off twitter and facebook
sure enough they're saying ban tucker carlson because they know he's the most on target
ban sean hannity they're making their move because they're desperate and they're trying
to cause civil unrest they're trying to cause riots i've got all these videos on info wars
dot com we'll get to next hour where i mean they are just beating up christians conservatives
the left is out in force it is crazy polosi and maxine waters are calling for all this
violence and then they misrepresent with hoaxes just like they launched the first iraq war
claiming that babies were throwing incubators the brain stomped out they're saying that
i beat up a kid in missouri in cnn forbes they had to retract it but didn't matter by
then and that's why my youtube channel was blocked no it wasn't i showed abc news showing
this kid punching a guy in the face so the guy pushes him down but again that you have
to understand why would they tell such blatant lies when they're so verifiably false because
they're planning something big they're making their move not just here but worldwide with
civil unrest with election fraud with all these cities legalizing illegal aliens voting
who's always denied they were doing they're making their move you can feel it your gut
your spirit you can see it and it's because big corporate governments in trouble the communist
chinese are in trouble hollywood's in trouble the nfl's got thirty forty percent less viewers
same with hollywood they paid tens of millions of dollars eighteen million dollars for anderson
cooper to launch this big vaunted hyped everywhere show daily on facebook and they put push notifications
out i never got a push notification for my own live feeds on my phone i got one monday
and tuesday night watch anderson cooper they had an average of four thousand viewers a
peak of five thousand five hundred he had jimacosta the fake news king on show before they shadow
banned us on facebook our average video had a million two million views i mean i could
sit at my dinner table and do one at midnight and have a million views then i got calls
come to new york meet with facebook you're really big blah blah blah leave us alone
play ball this is our off record meeting so i can't get into who's shut it it was pileable
folks you'll be part of this trusted guardian group are gonna set up that years later they've
now set up they just said just play ball let's stop bashing look come meet and get our agenda
and we'll let you reach your followers and you'll be number one and for about a month
it was like five million ten million views of videos like god almighty they were just
letting my viewers see me didn't play ball they restricted it down to you know a couple
hundred thousand and two and then they crushed that down what they found is they did big studies
on it last week the news put it out everybody copied it put it elsewhere so they realized
what i already knew it was a feeder it was a feeder and i don't want to put out a lot
of ten million people and put the truth out to a thousand because then it will grow the
truth grows a lie can go halfway around the world for the truth puts its pants on but
the lie doesn't have roots it just blows over in the wind use a biblical analogy for the
seeds fall on the rocks the birds eat it i want stuff i'd rather have one big oak tree
that's there for a thousand years and a bunch of stuff that just blows away and you know
a thousand little plants come up the first sun comes out in the summer and it's all
dead that's not a place to put a swing set up for my kids that's not that's not a future
is it see so i want real people i don't want fluff i don't want hype i don't want deception
i want the diamonds i don't want the the the the chaff and that's why they're so angry
is that can you imagine their full push and push notifications to millions of people saying
anderson cooper is on with all the hype on every channel anderson cooper like like god
was returning to earth like and they shoot it like it's low tech and they have like honking
cars in the background like oh it's low tech four thousand viewers per twenty minutes ladies
and gentlemen a teenager picking their nose has more viewers they're dead you can't make
people watch it you can't make them listen and so they look at us despite everything
they've done gaining hundreds of tv stations all this they don't know what to do so they
want it all and they want it now so they're going to engage in fraud and bullying used
to CNN would run months of propaganda to invade some terrible country now they run months of
propaganda four months of every day shut down alex jones to get a couple strikes and freeze
us live streaming they're pathetic it's not that i'm that strong it's that they're that
weak they're pathetic but we still even republican congressman see it and say something nice
about be all be nice it's like you're a trained seal it'd be like a mouse train a lion to
grovel before it but it's like like a bacteria training a lion to bow before it it's it's
it's a it's a hoax it's all a joke they're done unless they can cause a civil war unless
they can cause garbage we'll go out to break with a clip of mark dies the full clips at
mark dies dot com where he goes over the numbers of four thousand viewers on average during
his twenty minute show the cost eighteen million dollars shot on an iphone is a sick joke showing
the disconnect of these people will come back with the next level of persecution actually
like china's doing not letting you fly not letting you live in a country going after
you with this global social score here's a clip yesterday anderson cooper kicked off
his brand new facebook livestream which he's going to be doing five days a week which facebook
is paying cnn to produce let's take a look and see how it went now as i said remarkable
it didn't take long for democrats of chastise president trump probably no surprise there
some republicans also condemned the president most notably senator john mccain said in
a statement i want to read part of it to you you may be wondering what that noise is in
the background and it's actually an audio track that they played throughout the entire
broadcast tried to be like some cool hip millennial youtube vlogger which plays annoying background
music during their entire youtube video later in the show he was joined by jimacosta and
as you can see by the live viewer count here they didn't even have 5000 people turning
into the stream and look at this they're formatting the show vertically for mobile devices because
apparently their audience doesn't know that you can turn your phone sideways and expand
it full screen when you're watching media later in the stream anderson decided to answer
some audience questions to make the show interactive and by that time the viewership had dropped
down to under 4000 people what story did you do that had a long lasting effect you can't
quit looking at mark dies have you noticed that he's alive and being real you can't
you can't even look at cooper when he's on you're all looking at dies they of course
they want to shut us down they can't compete if you like alkaline water or know someone
that does you're going to love the dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on
the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless
steel the dylan bottle increases the ph up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant
water anywhere you want it alkaline water is healthier tastes better and can even boost
energy the dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal
hydration get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co that's dyln.co bacon lovers we ship
free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required proprietary value added packaging
provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon
in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve savory and delicious
wholesale price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon dot com ready
to eat bacon dot com this is dan billard you know the iris money you can't pay our tax
debts crippling you i've defended people from the iris for over 30 years i've helped thousands
and i can help you to i wrote the book on iris settlement and i'm telling you there's
no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to finally get free of iris debt with
the iris new programs there's never been a better time to solve your problem call 834
no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website danpillard.com most of you know that heart
disease is the number one silent killer in the u.s. what if i told you for just 54.95
a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract we've
been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word
for it check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack.com or to order call 866 295 5305
that's 866 295 5305 hbxtrack.com don't risk it when you can take charge of it Patrick
in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding me i've
been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info was in prison
planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the page on my dial-up
internet and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds
and followed all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration
of survival shield and since then i'm on the x2 the super male vitality the caveman the
real red pill myco zx body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say
that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the
body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know god the more you fear god
but the more you chase god and i wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side
with you the crew and the listeners out there 1776 worldwide
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to
help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's
no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with
20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep
your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better
time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't
miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today you're listening to the alex jones show
if you leave me if you leave me i won't miss you and i won't ever take you back george
straight bringing us in i'm alex jones your host from deep in the heart of texas the atx
you know think about the memory of the first amendment if they're really able to shut it
down because the digital system lets you spread info but it also let you track people control
their movements and shut them down economically mark of the beast level stuff whether you
believe in god or not in revelation it's coming true they're announcing world government
world taxation world id numbers world social scores it's all being adopted by apple twitter
facebook google we're here and we've got a chance though to get congress to get involved
with the president involved we're doing that i'm gonna go to our guest but here's my letter
to cnn's so-called a reporter mr darcy who sent us a comment last night to see if we
wanted to get a comment on the story he says does info wars or alex jones have a comment
on facebook removing four videos from its pages so you can pretend like he's a journalist
and not an anti-free speech hack that's a mr darcy you're asking me for comment about
facebook removing videos that you and your organization lobby to be removed my comment
is this cnn its parent company time Warner a part of the organization and i continue
cnn its parent company time Warner are put on notice to cease and desist in your tortuous
interference activities of publicly calling for my free speech to be banned my company
to be bankrupted and for us to be de-platformed across the internet your activity is extremely
criminal and unamerican it's i would add defamatory building a straw man so you can then have
a public lynching your campaign against competing news organizations and the first amendment
is outrageously anti-american and will not succeed long term america is aware and awake
to you and cnn cnn is beyond fake news cnn is a criminal combine working destroy the first
amendment you can send him any emails you want to go into a black hole the point is
is that they're dead already politically i don't mean physically before they jones threatened
darcy with death i mean politically they're dead there's no fruit off this tree and if
you want to look at where we're going to be germany and australia and other places have
great people in them but they arrest you if you criticize islam on facebook they hired
former stasi especially in new zealand australia they're cracking down on people and we are
joined by pastor logan robertson is born and raised in zealand he is grateful that he
was raised in a loving christian home and was saved as a young child he's happily married
for almost 12 years and the lord blessed him with five children but now it's in the news
that he's been deported from his own country sent into the phantom zone deported new zealand
pastor logan robertson now shows no remorse for harassing sissy muslims that's the media
spin oh my god it's not the muslims killing us and so we've also got lauren southern and
stefan malinu they're now calling for being banned they're not allowed to operate in australia
either so this is happening but well a man with no country a stranger in a strange land
pastor logan this is a short statement long statement coming up boil down for people what
actually happened to you what's going on the next level of tyranny before we get into the
specifics of you know all little fine details just the basics of what happened alright thanks
for having me on um so on the earlier this month on the 4th of july we went to a mosque
we were making a documentary expose in islam and we're asking the imam if we could do an
interview with him once he you know he said to bring him back we're leaving there are
some young teenagers yelled out um a few words to us when we were leaving and so i just i
just turned around and asked them you know how old was aisha which was one of muhammad's
many wives and he couldn't answer me so i called him a sissy and then we left the next
day we had an interview set up at a different another mosque we went there and the media
just turned up surrounded us um we didn't have our own interview obviously and the media
just turned up after that the the next day the police arrest me they arrest three other
men from our church then you know i i get out on bail then the border patrol turn up
this is in australia the border patrol turn up take me from my house and then put me in
a detention center for 12 days before they send me back to new zealand where i was born
but i was as a new zealand citizen you're allowed to live in australia for as long as
you like and you can work in australia but if you talk bad about islam you know you get
sent back um i'm i'm not in new zealand at the moment i'm on a mission trip in the philippines
but that that's the quick quick rundown it's just crazy because the headline is deported
new zealand password that means deported from australia to new zealand why do you think
all the western world they cover up this latest islamic attack in toronto they cover it all
up they're just obsessed the police the government with covering up for islam globally well i'm
not a hundred percent sure why they do it but i think they just wanted to take over in the
western countries i'm not a hundred percent sure why but the bible says in ephesians six
that we wrestle not against flesh and blood very against the higher powers of this world
and it's obviously the higher powers that are you know trying to promote islam and they
don't want christians you know in the western countries any more describe what it's like
though to to watch this invasion and just other observations yeah well in new zealand
is is not as bad but australia you know they they let muslims in you know just freely like
i believe there's 600 000 muslims in australia now and there's about 20 24 million people
and but it's increasing you know day by day they're bringing in all the muslim refugees
and you know parts of sydney is is pretty much sharia law there i watched a lady there
was in there the other you know a few days ago and the police told her that she wasn't
even allowed to you know talk to anybody in the streets there just because you know might
cause um you know public disturbance just were talking to muslims so i'm not i'm not
sure what it's like also read about just all the crimes being committed not just in australia
but in europe you name it and then they just cover it up and a large portion of the muslims
never get jobs that's right in australia a lot of them are unemployed and there are i
i i know in malvern there is big you know gangs of um of muslims there from africa which
cause a lot of problems and they you know they go to prison maybe for a little while
or they get released on bail but they don't get sent back you know to their their country
they're allowed to stay in australia we're about to go to break we're going to play
some of these clips when we come back pretty powerful stuff let me ask you this am i wrong
to say from what i read when i hear that australia and new zeal and starting to wake
up though yeah i i believe there's a there's a lot of people that are waking up to this
and you know hearing the truth about that you know it is a wicked false religion that
you know that at the moment they might be a little peaceful in our countries but when
they get their numbers up you can see like in england you know they're gonna they will
start writing they will start causing a lot of problems and they're used by the leftists
they're brought in to do that this is jessica arman founder of my magic mud our team helped
organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water supply this is our passion
my magic mud oral care purifies and brightens your smile naturally gcn listeners please
support my family business by purchasing our products from your local health food store
we're also available at cbs pharmacy or visit us at my magic mud dot com and take ten percent
off now with coupon code gcn ten tired of being censored by facebook youtube twitter
and patreon well now you don't have to be one way dot com is the free speech and human
friendly social network built just for you stop feeding the beast every post you make
on those evil anti-human anti-american perverted sites helps them destroy our families our
country and our souls join one way today and take back your liberty your free speech alternative
is waiting for you at one way dot com one way dot com choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for
supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and
is made from a source of one hundred percent organic mustard seed our super high quality
nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of ninety nine point nine nine percent ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience low metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com staying healthy on the go is
just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast
enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue
line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and sixteen
ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the
incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just
a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful
yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing
alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable
helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only
available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com the real red pill
plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to
improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest
fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all new version of
the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your
heart brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill it could become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has it's
also got the boost at it get the real red pill plus at info wars store dot com you're
listening to the alex jones show you are listening to an info wars dot com frontline report it's
alex jones by the way mike adams help write the report the quarterback to the president
now there's about shadow banning as we told you two weeks ago now that's the big top story
presidents aware as we told you they want to shut down for a reason they know the pentagon
the military the president the patriots that are in those groups are listening they understand
what's happening and a lot of martin when I call super right wing christians they're
just not anti america they get the anti american bent that's going on they're upset we're talking
to pastor logan robertson who has been so demonized so misrepresented with with with
what he's done pillar baptist org he has he there is an islamic invasion not not just
of australia and new zealand but all over the philippines you know right into indonesia
all of it is it is just massive and so he's been critical of it he went out to a mosque
pointed out mohammed married a nine-year-old and then he was going to another mosque the
next day and the police showed up like he was the devil because he was trying to proselytize
and politely talk to play some of this audio and video for listeners of him showing up
and then them deporting him even though under a british commonwealth he has a right to be
there back to new zealand and then now he's in the philippines but let's go ahead and
play this club here it is mohammed married a six-year-old he's a pedophile what do you
want to achieve man we're making a documentary about your false religion that's what we're
trying to do what's false about it what do you mean by that because they believe in work
salvation they follow a prophet that was a pedophile that married a six-year-old and
possibly made it that marriage when she was nine nine years old that's raping a child
it's disgusting how many wives did you get so angry and raise your voice like that he's
having a civil conversation he's having a civil conversation
hey pause look at these leftist reporter hacks whether it's in germany or the us or australia
they're all the same just hateful hatefully hate christians they hate bitter clingers
but they love to defend the most radical forms of islam that kills more muslims than anybody
else because i don't hate all muslims i don't whatever the point is the globalists just
are absolutely bullying everybody to cover this up continue because i hate the religion
i don't hate muslims i hate the religion oh hit pause they let muslims go on and say that christianities
of false religion blah blah blah kill the infidels i'm not saying violence but then you have stuff
like this oh they'll try to restrict it so so again why is the touchstone radical islam
why can't people talk about it we'll discuss it but whether you agree with this pastor or not
should he then be deported he's not supposed to deport anybody member under the global system
for this out of a british commonwealth to another which violates his rights but let's just uh
uh let's uh go ahead and finish up with this club
that's what you're doing we've seen the videos about the videos did you call me a terrorist i did not call me a terrorist
i did not call me a terrorist you did man i did not you're so you're lying now you went into the
show show us the video of me calling them a tiramisu call show me the what was your purpose of going
to the mosque because i had a question we were setting up interviews for our new documentary
what's documentary and the permission to go to a private property like to do the permission to
come here you don't have permission to go to kind of rails can you wait there you don't have permission
like it's like it's a police state so so it it goes on from there the islamists know they've got
the government backing the media backing and then and then after the cameras are cut off get into what
happened next um after after that we we left and we got pulled over just around the corner
um they searched searched our car i'm not even like in new zealand they wouldn't be
allowed to do that but in australia they searched our car they took all our camera equipment um
and they let us go at that point after they you know and talk to us and talk about gear
and then when did you get grabbed and arrested and taken out of the country
uh that that was the next day the next morning i was arrested taken into the police station
for a few hours and then they they let me out and they charged me for four four different accounts
two for public nuisance one for trespass on private property and one for entering in with
their tend to steal things from their mosque and then i had to walk home from the police
station for three hours because they wouldn't give me a ride home and that's how it works though under
i'm notice under the kind of commonwealth stuff it's it's it's it's exponential like they do one
thing they do another because they've learned people don't resist if you just just keep doing it in
waves to them right yeah and and then that evening i got home at roughly six p.m i sat down for a meal
with my family put the kids to bed and then about eight o'clock border patrol stole my house just
take me handcuff me take me to their their holding cell and that's right they won't take all these
llamasists and everybody pouring in from north africa you name it just boom they don't even get
jobs and just run around you though commonwealth citizen you are going to be so so the war patrol
is for you not them yeah i believe sir i mean in the detention scenes prison that i was in
there was maybe a hundred people there there was only maybe one muslim out of all of them
most of them were just new zealanders getting sent back to the new zealand and then also other
commonwealth countries england um island so well that's always the story uh europe's not even for
europeans now i mean that's what we're told us it's bad i mean well they just announced yesterday
the un wants 600 million people to enter the us the next 10 years and they're going to organize
them into the weapon system a two to one vote to totally enslave her body and it's not even the
folks being brought in are bad it's that they're being brought in by the globalist so they're
controlled by them it's quite a quite a system yeah no yeah obviously i i love muslims and you
know in fact yesterday i gave the the gospel to a muslim here in the philippines and she
trusted jesus as the savior believed that he was the son of god so i love muslims it's just
you know there are a few bad ones out there just love it in the air well sure i mean the
globalists are definitely betting on it but but but so you're really committing the big sin
though you're actually converting muslims christianity yeah yeah in fact we've had we've had
quite a lot converted it all in the philippines yeah so the good news is they're not stopping
your message you know but i mean let me guess do you feel even stronger under the suppression
oh yeah i i'm obviously sad that this happens because i love living there but on the scheme of
things i'm rejoicing the bible says to you know leap of joy when we're persecuted so i'm happy about
it i'm sure god's god is going to turn it into good well the philippines just really under
islamic attack for folks that don't know there's killings by islamists every day in the philippines
they're really trying to take that area over yeah oh that that's on the island um of mind
now on the south island that's that's actually where i am right now um where there's a large
muslim population and it is there's martial law here at the moment um you know there's checkpoints
everywhere um but these muslims haven't been here for a long time but they you know they're fighting
no no out of north africa the middle east going back four hundred years they had a slave trade
on ships all the way out to indonesia and back so yeah that's why that's all there
um you know we learned the transatlantic slave trade from the islamist
yeah and look that's fine i just always hear about whites invented slavery no the modern
transatlantic slave trade of 600 years ago was literally learned from arab slave traders and
then europe finally picked it up because slavery wouldn't be accepted in europe they would export
the slaves to the new world so i always hear about all the black muslims join islam because they
think it's anti-slavery but in in in all these african countries where the muslims run things
they have reinstituted slavery and they say that blacks are subhuman i disagree with that
yes sir and it's pretty amazing what you know that that that that like in in in north africa
that that the the ahabias say that blacks really aren't human and actually can slave them
yeah i mean obviously black people we love black people as well you know there's no
no i know you don't i'm just saying under under the radical forms of islam the ahabias blacks
can be put into slavery years ago info wars life created the powerful micho zx formula to help you
combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team
knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micho zx plus is
the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's
natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body fight
back micho zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive tract
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an
impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed extract
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing
properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micho zx plus today at info wars life dot com
that's info wars life dot com nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic
fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic
acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help
feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout
the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call one eight
eight eight two five three three one three nine we all know that the outside toxins in the water
is a serious health issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible
to keep up with every faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something
to provide clean water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration
system is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for
your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install
and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply
and away from you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll
only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store
dot com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to
replace your current rundown systems it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole
house filtration system today as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your
body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may not
be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum
standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins
minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural
and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
i'm gonna find me a reckless woman
raise your blades and die center high and just a touch of sadness in her fingers just a touch
of sadness center finger thunder thunder and lightning in her thigh and we're going to ride
on corruption it's alex jones and we're gonna ride we're gonna ride ride like the one-eyed jack
of diamonds ride like the one-eyed jack of diamonds with the devil close behind we're gonna ride
see the devil's behind us
we are trailblazing into the future that's why all the tyrants follow they don't lead
all right we have mike adams coming in here and you know i'm not good at hyping things i'm really
not i tend to just say things upfront the most powerful stuff with no pomp and circumstance but
mike adams wrote the report paul watson helped put it out we had people get into the president
and then they shadow banned a bunch of conservative congressmen and women right after we told them
it was happening they like completely shadow banned them like 97 percent and now congressman
gauges i feel violated i feel raped good buddy i'm glad you now understand where we're at
the CNN headline will be jones calls for congressmen to be raped i'm saying no i'm glad you now are
awake so we've reached an epic point here and we do have the ear of patriots in the government
and corporations and a lot of them are intimidated a lot of them you know we're specialists they do
what they do and they work and they're they're conformist even though they're not bad people
they're looking for unconformists like pastor robertson and and like you and like me to do this so
so i'm going to explain this again just like everything i keep telling you comes true it's
not that i'm that smart it's formulaic in fact this is so obvious that after they tried to ban us
they try to ban tucker carlsson fox news steven krauter stefan malinu why because they're their
listenerships going straight up and so when tucker carlsson comes out and says they're trying to
ban alex jones they'll ban everybody they ban alex jones and they all attack him he knew what they do
when he did that so i respect people that aren't cowards and carlsson isn't even doing that for me
he's doing that for his kids i mean carlsson's a patriot you know his dad ran voice for america
you know what that means and he knows a real clear and present danger to this country and
it's only carlsson and maybe a lou dobbs and a sean hannity the i mean uh the laura ingrams and
people turned against trump when he met with putin which he should have already done
these people don't have the medal it takes we're not all just trying to get a bigger house or a
bigger jet airplane we will lose everything this is a total takeover and i've got the articles
the moment police try to stop far right activists lauren southern from walking past
a mosque in australia because she might offend muslims there is this leftist sycophantic worship
of radical islam and just the most disgusting prostration before it because it's part of a
larger plan so just finishing up with that with pastor logan of pillar baptist.org watching
them gang up on you watch them do all this and then watch them you know just the things they've
done to australians in new zealanders the way they bullied the population i know they're great
people there but i know they're close to getting control of their governments again that's what
they're really afraid of uh so i just want to commend the work you've done and appreciate what
you're doing hope folks will support you and and and you know get updates from you but what else do
you want to add do you agree with what i've said disagree i mean what's the what's the essence of
in your in your gut your spirit of what we face yeah well i can see there's a big like you're
saying a censorship of the truth because i've done videos against the prime minister of new zealand
which is a communist you know hippie jacinda ardern and when i put that video onto youtube
you know straight away the views just they won't go up at all they'll just stay at like 200 to 300
views but you can see that people are liking it you can see that there's um comments but they won't
put the views up at all well they're shadow banning you they they because they know their idea is a
failed system it's oppressive but but exactly yeah and also like there's also a a big legal battle
that we have to now face and someone started a go fund me account for our church they it got up to
$10,000 and then go find me shut it down because all the the left wingers you know does it keep
harassing everybody always talks about hitler hitler hitler and they overuse it but hitler put
people in economic ghettos first for four or five years till they were forgotten and weak then he
shipped them off and that's what's happening to christians conservatives libertarians all the world
we're being deplatformed and now it's the nra now it's going to be fox news so instead of rolling
over to this we should say no yes sir yeah there's um just so you know on my own youtube and facebook
they they they censor it all the time that they don't want the truth out there
i i hear you're fighting the charges in australia um but just yes for people that don't know i mean
describe describe because i saw the arrogant bearing of the islamists with the police the
media i mean they they know they've got the establishment on their side how are the muslims
taking it knowing the full night of the west is here to help them like a knife draw them across our
neck yeah i'm not sure how they are but you know with the three other men in our church they i've
i couldn't go to court because i was deported so they put a warrant out for my arrest now in australia
now the other three men they're pleading not guilty it's also going to cost a lot of money to
fight this but the the lawyer said that these charges are not from the police they're from
higher up in government because the police would never charge you for these things normally
but they still need to pay for it i mean the real people on trial should be the magistrates
that took part in this criminal activity right yeah i mean i don't know why we have to end up paying
for you know or our legal costs when it was if the media never turned up then none of this would
have happened i'd still be in australia everything would be fine well exactly they showed up the
police and everybody wanted to grovel and but see that's the issue as thomas everson said when
the government fears the people there is liberty when the people for the government there is
tearing and the fact that they would take peaceful pastors coming to cover a news thing
that were invited to a mosque the mosque is inviting you in the fact that they would do all this
shows the true criminal activity pillar baptist.org people should go there find out more what you're
doing we look forward to talking to you again pastor god bless okay thank you and again whether
you agree or disagree with what the media said about this guy and i find that all be a misrepresentation
you should support the free speech issue in all of this now i haven't gotten to all the footage
that we have today that's up on info wars.com and news wars.com of patriots being attacked by leftists
all over the country it is exponentially uh getting worse right now and it is racial i love hispanic
people i love white people up we're all the same i mean you could technically argue because i'm like
a little bit native american hispanic hispanola is just was the island of uh that's uh now the
Dominican republican Haiti it was called hispanola and then 500 years ago a sugarcane plantation so
if you were like somebody out of that they would call you hispanic i think latino would be a better
term which just means latin language but it doesn't matter the point is is that
i find latinos and people if you actually talk to them easier to wake up to what's going on
than than most groups on average so i don't want to make those groups an enemy that they
they've had the kids they didn't deport their kids they're good people they're the future of america
so let's let's let's not make them enemies but i got a good hundred videos i've seen
where you get a group of hispanic people beating up white folks beating up women you name an enemy
you know i would be really offended if i saw a bunch of white people beating up hispanics or vice
versa um the hispanics are you know white and native american and sometimes a little bit of mix
of african in there so you know we're all the same people and it's just really stupid and it's
dumb and we're going to lose this fight against the globalists if we're fighting with each other
over this crap but these folks have been told that donald trump hates them and so they go out to the
donald trump star and you know they see guys in american flags they attack them and it's it's it's
just total idiocy uh and pathetic and it's it's all being planned towards this fall for a big crisis
and that's why they want to censor those of us they're exposing it because they want to take
place so the country is in grave danger and i can set up here with a nice smile about all this
and everything but uh you don't just think trump getting in was the beginning of the victory uh
that's not going to happen once we take action trump winning was not the victory it was the beginning
and um the globalists now are awake they're making their move and it's very sad to watch them
in the footage i've got a black people beating up white people in california yesterday and
hispanics attacking whites and just believing it's okay because you like america f america
how they were trained to hate the country they want to be part of is the mind control in the
essence of evil please don't forget we've got the new amazing krill oil fish oil and roll call
for children uh talk about brainbows stamina health everything these are the very best out
there in four store dot com 25 off without you will be shut down these are products you need
please get into that in four store dot com we've taken thousands of years of known research and
put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god
gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a
classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and
now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in
the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need
you the remnant of america to reignite those rush fires the next level and to be healthy and as
focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world
now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com you deserve a deep restful
sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a
powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around
the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep
up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex
jones show big brother mainstream media government coverups you want answers well so does he it's
alex jones on the gcm radio network you know the attempted takedown of free speech is happening
right now and the left thinks we're so brain dead and so in a catatonic state watching tv and
watching football or whatever that we don't know they banned christians conservatives everywhere
they're moving forward with giant riot gangs marshal law plans uh it's uh quite a time to be alive
they're about to grab julie in the signs and put him in prison in the us i mean you know this is real
this isn't a joke it's not a drill it's the real deal and uh they want to break this country
financially they want to bring in total division they want to teach cultural division the opposite
of martin with her king in schools they want to betray the real christian revolution this country's
seen cnn uh lies about band info wars videos and his censorship attempt see the band videos for
yourself go read the article you can also sign a petition to stop shadow banning that is having an
effect in congress because you got to do some effort you know go get the article and go there and do it
and some other things we're trying as hard as we can to do but uh you have to understand this
isn't just spectator stuff and i know you know that but if we're sitting here talking to you
and we're talking about all the things that need to be done if you don't share the articles if you
don't download the free app info wars dot com port slash app if you don't tell people about the app
if you don't tell them about the verboten nature of the show and then hey they're trying to shut
this down people won't understand what's happening the enemy will win and and and scumbags like
brian stelter he thinks you're weak he's a little weak twisted evil person spiritually but he has
the energy to dominate and he thinks it's a big joke that he sees more superior men and women
under his control he can't believe that he's having such a heyday with you and it's only because
you've been unconscious let's go out a little mayberry peace here then we'll come back from break
mike adams who is taking action we really appreciate mike he took action he wrote the
report paul got it out it got to the president now the domino is almost falling we've almost
got the censorship exposed we're almost going to route these people but without you promoting it
and god without me manning up it's my organizational skills are crap and getting the full force out
because we've got the enemy's destruction in our hand but we don't launch it we just don't
deliver it down the pike we will do it though god help me here it is
the british are coming the british are coming
now the ride of paul revere sent the nation on its ear and the shock that lexington heard
around the world when the british fired in the early dawn the war of independence had begun the
die was cast the rebel flag unfurled and on to concord march the fold to seize the arsenal there
you know waiting folks searching all around till i malicious stopped them in their tracks at the
old north bridge we turn them back chase those red ghosts back to boston town and the shot around
the world was a start from the revolution the men men were ready on the move take your power take
your gun report to general washington hurry man there's not an hour to lose what happened that
they had planned if the british was ever to come over here that they had put a light up in this
high church steeple and paul went down there to look and showing up there was the light burning
brighter than paul he jumped on his old horse and he lit out he didn't know where he was going but
he knew he had to go somewhere oh i wish you could have seen it that old horse with his ears laid
back in his nostrils wide open a sucking in wind like a jet engine feet pounding on them cobblestones
striking off sparks paul are holding on for dear life and are hollering at the top of his lungs
he says the british is coming the british is coming get you a gun we're gonna have us a revolution
and them farmers come up piling out of the hay like beat out of beehive minute men there's called
what's that mean minute men there's fellas that had to be ready at a minute's notice and when paul
comes screeching down the road that way they grabbed their guns and hid out behind the weeds and
walls and trees and everywhere and when the british come pranks and long haul dressed up and
and in their red suits they let them have it it was a sight to see
living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found here in
leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need to be concerned
about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower
the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals
alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and
acidity in the rainwater next we tested the water from our elixir pure gravity filter and not only
were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored to optimal levels
as it turns out the filter on the elixir pure raises the ph of the water so what we've learned is
that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply but more importantly a good
water filtration system will purify it
live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
it was back on may 29th that rozan bar made the tweet about valerie jaret that put a screeching
halt to her mega successful reboot that gave a voice to middle america and i was uh so sad
that people thought it was racist and then i went into the whole thing about the whole
discussion of racism and that blew my mind because it's so much a part of what the show
i was doing was about and i'm like why can they not see my work and and then i got really messed
up thinking in this world it seems as if words matter more than actions but in the real life
world actions matter more than words and my actions over 30 years as an artist and a comedian
and i've always been you know i love this we've got power towards all we've got all these videos
out there just of the left screaming inward at the ice people all the rest of it the craziest
race baiting white people are inherently evil and then rozan bar says that he's a nazi collaborator
george soros and then she's got to apologize that she goes on hanity to fall on her sword over some
stupid sitcom that a bunch of zombies watch i mean i'm just sick of it but but but here's
the big article that went out a week and a half ago they got picked up now you see the president
saying shadow banning is illegal he's going to investigate it congressman gates has gone from
supporting it a week ago uh to saying it's terrible he feels violated emergency big text plot to kill
free speech revealed we're going to retweet that at real alex jones because they hate it and then
there is the master censorship plan decoded that mike adams put together and it's 50 something
pages it got to the president so mike now i know for a fact got to the president you you see a week
and a half later he's saying yesterday it's illegal the shadow ban so at least we're forcing it out in
the open what they've been doing they were so arrogant to put shadow bans on all the republicans
even though they have voting power they've now now begun to back off of that at least on the
surface we know they'll creep back in later but this is a big deal thanks for coming in with us
thank you alex thanks for having me here and what's extraordinary about what's happening today is
that twitter now is denying that they're shadow banning the president even as they are shadow
banning the president so they're they're saying that they're not shadow banning anybody but you
just can't find their tweets unless you go directly to their page and look look for them
really really hard that's shadow banning that that's i mean hey jack that's shadow banning
they're in a state of denial alex and the thing is here's here's what really hit me in the last
couple of days in listening to your show and going through some of what i've experienced is that
these people on the left these tech giants they are part of a what they want to be a cultocracy
a cult of fanaticism and they absolutely will not stop unless they are forced to stop and they're
manned by a bunch of sjw is they they defame us it's not about us but they defame me say things i
didn't say remove the videos and then facebook identically does the same thing well this is
the other thing the aclu should should give you an award for being a champion of freedom of speech
where's the aclu on all this you know where's jack on all this the thing is america owes you a debt
of gratitude frankly for standing up for the freedom of speech because if they take out alex
jones and they falsely accuse you like they did with that video they said that you pushed a child
down wasn't even you in the video and then they ban your right to defend yourself if they take you
out then they're going to take out fox news then they're going to take out all conservative
lawmakers and by the way they're already saying that they're like foaming at the mouth what do
you make though of anderson trooper having four thousand viewers when he did this 18 million
dollar push on facebook they they push notification everybody and no one tuned in don't they get that
even if they were to ban us everywhere people still hate them well this is the thing the only
way that they can even have a voice that's relevant in the marketplace of free ideas is to ban all
opposing opinions that's the point of banning you and me and others who have been banned remember
i've been completely blacklisted off youtube for months i've been shadow banned by facebook and
twitter and others as well the point is that if we are allowed to compete in a free marketplace of
ideas we win paul joseph watson his ideas make sense he wins you win we win and if we can
simply defend ourselves against the false accusations that we can set the record straight
and then maybe that's the real answer here is yeah they are misrepresenting who we are building
straw man then silencing us so we can't respond to their fraud and they're moving against everybody
for civil unrest in the new year uh they are uh moving towards uh the midterms they're planning
something but right this is election be calculating like i mean well yeah exactly this they wouldn't
be doing something this risky if they didn't have something big plan remember that robert
muller charged i think 12 or 13 russians with attempting to defraud the united states of america
by interfering with elections what is it that twitter is doing facebook google they are doing
what the russians never did but that robert muller accused the russians of doing facebook is doing it
every day twitter is doing it every day they are defrauding the united states of america and frankly
alex they are shredding they are ripping apart the culture of this country they are going to push
us into an escalation that we want to avoid that they are pushing it because they have declared
a kind of war this is the opening salvo of warfare against the american people they are
disenfranchising half the population i can't believe i'm more animated right now than you are
no no i'm just trying to shut up or i'll go wild like no you're right mike but but here's the thing
it's it's so crazy that they're doing this and they're pulling on all the stops and they're
but the good news is no one's watching them yeah yeah yeah there's no oversight and like i said
they have decided in their minds that they absolutely will not stop unless you make them stop
and that could be done by federal marshals it could be done by federal regulation maybe the
president you know can can initiate some action well that's the beginning pulling their security
clearances when you've got clapper and all these guys on the chi-com payroll on record
shang overthrow the government go after conservatives i mean they're clearly seditious
they're not trying to work within the government of the system they're trying to overthrow the
election and you can't reason with these tech giants you can't reason with them there is no
no circumstance under which they will voluntarily recreate a level playing field of ideas that
will not happen this is what we must understand you can't appease them representative gates
you can't appease these tyrants they are authoritarian cultists and they are fanatics
they are driven by their fanaticism it's like a jihad against the freedom of of speech in this
country that's what the left is doing today that's the only way to describe it well that's it this
is the huge move against the first amendment yes a huge move against everything it's happening now
and i can't even get conservatives to halfway wake up or even kind of figure anything out it's
going oh yeah because they were always censoring us and things but that was lowling and saying it was
kind of low level now it's exponential this is the main assault and congressman gates we know
he got the report we know he got talked to people asking be a champion against shadow banning
this is wrong and he roger stone talked to roger songan to run for office to help him out and and
roger's mad at him right now because gates got in the hearing and said well you're a private
corporation you can do whatever you want really like a product a tnt keep you from calling your
mom on the phone so so so until he got shadow banned now he says he feels violated yeah right
why does he he thought he would join with them and they'd leave him alone no no they want pure
voting blocks they want republicans out what did matt gates think why did he think if he sat there
and threw me under the bus and went along with her bs when he knew it wasn't true that he'd be
protected well he thought that he could appease them and that's what i'm trying to say they cannot
be reasoned with these people are like fanatic terminators you can't reason with them and by
the way imagine alex the outcry if they had selectively shadow banned lgbt people or african-american
groups imagine the outcry if this was but as christians and conservatives and trump supporters
and nationalists and then it's tanking facebook stock there's people get they're all leaving it's
falling apart they're killing the nfl they're killing hollywood they're killing facebook on the
altar of defeating us don't they get that we weren't going to change our view just so we can be
promoted on facebook that's right they thought have lovian lee to get their casino gulag chips
we would roll over to their ideology the last few years and they can't believe mike and their
social engineering that's the big victory that we rejected it yeah right right well that's why
they're so desperate at this point because they know that the spirit of freedom and liberty is
rising up in the hearts and minds of the american people and we will not be silenced and we will
not acquiesce to their twisted distorted delusional view of the world this left-wing cultism where they
say you know a biological man should be able to declare himself a woman and beat women in the face
on a mat in a high school wrestling team and win the state championship because he says he's a woman
we reject that we reject that because we are rooted in logic and reason and reality economic
reality biological reality but i agree but i mean when you've got millions of push notifications
facebook hyping for weeks and it's a cooper show it has 4.4 thousand viewers i mean dude you could
they can't compete that's the time and that it's like no one will watch that no because people
trying to paint would have more viewers the human spirit is rejecting the delusional fanaticism of
the left and that's why their censorship has gone ballistic now you're right it's a total
we're allergic to the left now we're a good way to put it we're allergic to cnn god i know i've
got a huge allergy most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the
us what if i told you for just 54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at
heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just
take my word for it check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305
that's 866-295-5305 hbxtrack.com don't risk it when you can take charge of it water is the
single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your
family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest
price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to goburky.com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 goburky.com get the ultimate knife at an
ultimate price the fox caramba knife finally available in the us a fox caramba knife opens with
one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility for defense and for way less than other
knives of this caliber go to the ultimate knife.com truly the best knife you will ever own and only
available at the ultimate knife.com use promo code radio and check out for free shipping get the
ultimate knife at the ultimate price at the ultimate knife.com if you like alkaline water or know someone
that does you're going to love the dillon living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel
the dillon bottle increases the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water
anywhere you want it alkaline water is healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the dillon
bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dillon bottle
today at dyln.co that's dyln.co do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the
globlest it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood
against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's
why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that
everyone go to info wars.com forward newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and
so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to but the bare minimum you can do
is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward newsletter we are the renaissance and we
are winning
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all new version of
the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill they quickly become one of our fellow info warriors favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
this is the attack on our republic people wonder why all these are the third world countries are
hellholes even though they have resources because people lay down that he's given to the corruption
we have big mega banks the chai comms hollywood trying to destroy this country right now
and they are openly shadow banning conservatives for four or five years
now 97 paul watson banned on youtube on twitter so he only gets a half million views and you know
10 000 retweets it's just saying with mike Adams myself it's not about us folks i don't even want
to do this anymore okay mike's already published you know 20 30 best-selling books he's got big
websites he's successful we're in a war they're trying to suppress everybody and because of
television most people even if they're awake they're kind of an oh yeah this mode of they're
gearing up for civil unrest they're gearing up to shut everything down they're admitting it's
their plan they're a bunch of failure scum they shouldn't be able to dominate us so mike Adams
your report the censorship master plan decoded it's linked in a paul joseph watson article
or retweeted alex jones people to find it easily emergency big text plot to kill free speech revealed
there's a petition in here that's only like 100 000 signatures uh to you know to reinstate gun
the pedophile apologies 400 000 but doesn't matter the president's listening great job mike Adams
getting a report out if people want a blueprint i can't believe that other people didn't put a blueprint
out i can't believe that i literally got asked by high-level people in the government to do this
do you think it makes me feel good that oh i'm special they're asking us to do it no it scares
the living hell out of me that no one else seems to give a crap and that's why they want to shut
down because we know what pieces of filth they are and we have the answers to defeat them the
realization from this alex that you are alluding to is that no one is coming to save us there's
not some great deity out there that's going to save us from this political situation we have to
stand up and save ourselves and that's why you know just like you said alex we didn't sign up for
this i don't want to be in this fight every day this is not the life that i want to live
i was into just clean food and running a science lab and and helping people stay healthy that's
really what i wanted to do but now they've turned us into warriors for the freedom of speech and we
are on the front lines for whatever reason we find ourselves here and we're you know it's because
nobody else will do it that's the thing yes and and you and i are like if no one will do it we
will pick up the sword and we're not so sorry for ourselves when we when we do something it has
instant effect and it's like if we got 10 more active we'd win in a day yeah we have total victory
in our hands and people will just do it and we are fighting for the sustainability of civilization
i mean make no mistake we cannot sustain ourselves as a globalist admit they're trying to destabilize
civilization and collapse it that that's it freedom of speech is a pillar of sustainable
civilization not even to mention a constitutional republic without freedom of speech without the
open marketplace of ideas you can't have a nation that sustains itself you end up in collapse but
that's what they want a merazuela they want that because they've organized it globally to extract
all the power during the collapse it's an admitted plan it's so diabolical and why doesn't the average
person get they've been targeted at an exponential spiritual level on a resistant might see that
that's i don't get that either because we are so awake it's so aware and it hits us so hard
what is at stake it's like just the ability to see where this can go to project two years down the
road and see the the hellhole of tyranny and authoritarianism that that vision just comes
to mind and we fight against it let me ask you this question clearly i want you elaborate on this
they're getting ready for something big trying to shut everybody down right now
what do you think that is and what should we do because i can feel their energy i i can see their
action i can i mean i know they're coming it's like we're being overrun by the enemy we have the force
to absolutely repel them and defeat them but not if we're not aware well share with you my my worst
case scenario i think they could do a nuclear false flag dirty bomb or nuclear attack oh don't
put a passive to kill trumps out trump exactly it takes out trump they blame it on patriots or
they blame it on trumps negotiations with north korea they could say it's north korea fighting
back or i ran or i ran exactly but they take out trump and they take out 200 000 americans at the
same time and then they blame conservatives and then they use that to blacklist all conservatives
all speech online and any dissenting views this is the plan they have to silence you alex and they
have to silence me before exactly they wouldn't be taking the risk to shut us down when it wakes
everybody up the strident effect if they weren't at a gut level i know i i think well before the
election they're going to hit us and i agree i think it's i think it's going to be a biological
or a nuclear event it's but i think they want nuclear to kill potas see that's the thing all
they have to do is and and i'm not giving anybody ideas that they don't already know about oh absolutely
kill trump every day their their death threats against trump every day the thing is these tech
giants are complicit in this alex they are complicit in silencing these voices even while
they're denying well they're completely coordinated yes clearly and ultimately i can tell you if
hillard clinton had won the presidency they would have already seized your domain names they would
not even be in for war well they said they were that it was part of the plan we were on the list
my hand out in the wiki leagues that soros would run the internet and he pretty much does now 20
thousand of his fact checkers are the ones that like say say i beat up a kid in missouri yeah and
the thing is which is that such a bold lie mike it is like like they're acting like there's going
to be no next month i mean you don't do stuff like that unless you don't think the future matters
right right but that's that you're exactly right there's a point of desperation that they've reached
because to them everything is contingent on what happens before the election and they're willing
to literally kill or half killed i believe hundreds of thousands of americans to accomplish their goals
of creating an authoritarian overlord society where there's no voice that is dissenting against
the fanaticism of the left is allowed to even speak or to even exist that tucker carlson gets this
but where are all the others where i was about to say tucker is going under massive attack i
don't even know ed fox for doing this you think he wants to champion all the demonization of all
shows no he gets he's next hell they're calling before this even happened for him to be removed
the the reason i am here fighting for your voice alex is because i see the big picture i know what's
at stake i know that none of us will be allowed to exist in a free society if they take away your
first amendment they're going to take away your second amendment by the way they have admitted
that they say they're going to take this it's all in the news they want crowded off they've already
taken you off they want to mulling it off they want tucker off they want to shut handy off
anybody that's loyal to america we're real that video is taken off 250 channels a day real that
video the youtube alternative literally 250 new channels a day can we live stream on that yet
not yet but that's i want to set it up that is already but we'll just leave youtube i talk to
your crew all your videos are going live on there i mean the the recorded videos are going on there
right now every day all of info wars videos will be on real dot video so if they ban you on youtube
we've got an alternative that's the key and i'm losing money every day on that alex i hope to
make it revenue neutral at some point but right now i'm losing money i don't care we have to have a
platform well i agree soros used to put in a billion a year to bring down the us he put in
was it 28 billion this year he put hat he they're all in we are they are now they're like oh you
think you beat us full attack yeah and i'm telling people just vibe like a little bit of a jerk around
the office i love everybody my idea the spiritual gut level is a man i'm trying to control myself
because all my instincts and like everything is like on full combat mode and this is so far beyond
you and or i uh having an ego in this or even i'm saying my my gut tells me this is it exactly this
is we are fighting on the front lines for human human civilization to have a sustainable model
of good ideas you can feel an army coming over the hill before they even show up and we can see
them we already know you can feel it though they will collapse everything we value if we let them
win everything they will destroy our civilization if we let them win that's what's at stake america
is the prize we fall at all falls god oh my that's why i told roger stern election and i said this is
just the beginning of the real war this is jessica arman founder of my magic mud our team helped
organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water supply this is our passion
my magic mud oral care purifies and brightens your smile naturally gcm listeners please support my
family business by purchasing our products from your local health food store we're also available
at cbs pharmacy or visit us at my magic mud dot com and take 10 off now with coupon code gcm 10
water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for
you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy
provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now
and in an emergency get to go burky dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com
info wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best
source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and
other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so
much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well
as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the gut so this is the time to
take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products you get
them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high quality products
at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies sold out of a month
strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with it's sold out for another month and
a half we sold it at 50 off till it sold out and i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber
get yours today info wars life dot com info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely
excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun
is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil
from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3
content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely
low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the
research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories
is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com
about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports
our memory and brain function something the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today
or call 888-253-3139 the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal
absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so
much more regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines
turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for
full body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at 1-88-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show
tonight
well we apologize for that little radio piece i i sent it over his bumper music last week
said cut that out but nobody cut that out so i apologize just remove that from the lineup
can we just do that you know i'm sure we can get that done cruise great i'm just really
spoiling here for a fight with what's going on with the globalist elijah schaefer and joy vila
means no introduction she's gonna be coming on you know trumps um hollywood star got attacked by
pickaxe and now folks come out and attack people that come out to it and it's all very racially
charged against white people it's very very sad what the globalist created in this country so it's
it's a really really becoming a problem uh might clearly the media all of its building towards this
towards something big this late summer this fall do you agree with that and and what do you think
is going to happen and how do we counter well they're absolutely building towards something we
can't predict what it is but we know the purpose of it is to of course steal the election demonize
all trump supporters and then bring in an authoritarian overlord type of society where
only one official position is allowed to be spoken online about any given topic that's the key and
it's the radical left that's going to determine what is allowed to be said about any given topic
and their positions are a moving target because under community guidelines hey there's a viral
video on abc nbc cbs of 11 year old hitting adults in the face a guy pushes him down we play it like
everybody else does they what do you think that turns into child endangerment they don't let you
see the video they just say endangered child it's all up to community guidelines what their little
bots their little people their little george soros a media matters folks say oh and let's let's be
honest their community guidelines are enforced by people who are delusional because they themselves
the employees there who enforce these have been subject to the indoctrination and brainwashing
attempts of a fake news media so this is circular reasoning they say we can ban you because our
people say you're violating their guidelines but their guidelines are false guidelines where they
hate america so if you love america or if you are against people being attacked because of
trump supporters suddenly you're in violation that's what it has come to and we are we're we're
not just at war with the tech giants we're at war against irrationality you see let's go ahead and
play this if we have it bleep this is the hollywood star of donald trump has been pickaxed out yesterday
and you've got a group of hispanic young people who believe that whites are nazis and the trumps
are nazi so they've showed up you've got some trump supporters you hear people you know he's a
marine he's marine that's just some things somebody's saying uh you know don't beat up the you know the
marine it's sort of for radio listeners you'll hear that but you've got one person after another
coming in and punching and attacking the two white guys who are evil because they're white
we're not trying to be racially based we believe martin was the king of judgment content and what
they actually do but this is what the left has created where they really believe uh that trumps
the devil white people the devil this is the race-based politics the left is playing uh because
this is the new system they're engaged in their globalism here's the club
hey
see at that point that man has the right to defend his life using whatever legal means
are available to him oh it just goes on from here where the ride of passage is beat up a white guy
and again i'm not going to hate these hispanic folks because they're in a racial attack on
white people understand their brainwash but the same point doesn't matter if a whole mob of people
coming down on you because you're wearing a trump shirt or american flag at a certain point you know
i'm just glad nobody pulled a gun because uh you know a good 10 15 guys try to beat up each guy
they stand their ground and uh you know that's gonna happen though that's gonna happen and you
know legal doctrine in most areas of the country says that if you are being attacked by one person
who is a member of a gang or a mob you have the right to stand your ground and defend yourself
using even lethal force in defense of your life against that entire group that is legal doctrine
in most areas of the country so it's going to happen the left is pushing it pushing it to that
and the tech giants are part of it you see because they won't allow you to have a debate online
they are pushing it into this kind of violence on the streets they're complicit in and by the way
even local news admits that that the two marine corps veterans were attacked by a racial mob
but they go oh that's okay it's cute they're trump people f them so
well this will do a real shooting war which i don't want to happen what's the left gonna do when
they get in their car in the morning and something happens i mean they don't understand like once you
start a war with people who know how to engage in war they're they take our kindness for weakness
it is we're here begging for people to to hold their fire do not escalate the violence and the
left is trying to escalate it every single day who threw the first punch in that fight it was that
radical left-wing hater that's who threw the first punch and don't they understand this is going to
become a kinetic war if they keep pushing it in this direction even though we don't want to see that
happen we don't want to have to defend our nation using the second amendment but guess what that's
where they are pushing it to and it is sad and i pray for our country and i pray for the safety
of our patriots i pray for the safety of our president and i don't know what else we can do
alex we we are working to exercise our freedom of speech we are building platforms we are expanding
we are trying to tell the truth we are trying to defend ourselves against these assaults we are
trying to call for peace and civility in society and we are being attacked in every direction
for every vector it and and the lies it doesn't even make me mad that they said i beat some kid
out up in missouri and then i endangered children and take videos down or that i made fun of muslims
when i just showed radicals lamas is pouring into europe or you know i showed them having two
year olds put money in the g strings of men shaking their butts in their faces i think it's
child abuse it's that they did all that and then they don't even show the video and then the people
buy into it you know it's that they're willing to lie at that level you're like my god brian stelter
and all these people really are sick but then anderson cooper has 4 000 viewers with his 18 million
dollar show that's kind of the good news here is that is that no one is buying into this your
guests are here that's right our guests are here so we're going to go ahead and go to elijah shaffer
and we've also uh have as well joy vila they were down there last night we just showed that
footage we got two minutes till break but uh describe why you went down there uh you know
what unfolded i mean you guys are doing a lot of work also you try to i mean it's just it's just
really gotten crazy a lot of courage to do this so good yeah good to have you back joy and elijah
thank you alex it's always good to be on your show your patriot we love you so we came out
we're doing a social experiment me joy vila and slightly offensive that's elijah's of
youtube channel and it's been bipartisan it's been showing a lot of hypocrisy of the left as well
as some people on the right and we just basically where we were not instigating anything we wore
trump hats trump shirt and we walked through the streets we engaged in beautiful conversation
we landed at the star in hollywood which is where we had people taking selfies with us
i got a six foot two cardboard cutout of the president himself it i was saying the national
anthem we were happy people were loving and then this one thug came in right right so what
so what happened is is that of course um these were obviously anti trump agitators who started
pointing out the fact that our opinion mine and my security whose whites opinion didn't matter
because we're white boys and then he had the audacity to actually call joy the n word and then
he decided to justify that didn't matter because he could say whatever he wanted
and that's basically right at that point joy got upset yeah i actually got in his face not
confronting but i just said this is disrespectful you're disrespecting black americans americans
you're disrespecting the president we're all here having fun there was every color at that star
celebrating the president after it has been destroyed and we wanted to spread some love
and we so i said get out of here you're not welcome here he started pulling down his pants and
showing his butt there was underage girls there kids there he was getting in our face he kept calling
us well this is incredible because i saw the video and i'm remembering this we bleeped it but but i
mean exactly pulling their pants down yelling screaming calling people the n word they do this
to ice ages they do it to cops they attack food trucks that are just nearby because
an ice age in each of them it's just a crazed evil we'll break it all down to the side of this break
stay with us
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set
out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over the top
stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few
months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product info wars life dot com because it works so well this is a gift
you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total
absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info wars life
dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports
it's for activities and it's made in the us day get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com
everybody needs to try alpha power today fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced
the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful
nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your
gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your
body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life
daily digestive pack today patrick in the great nation of australia you're on the air worldwide
thanks for holding hey i've been following you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back
when info wars and prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and i had to load down the
page on my dial-up internet and i thought it was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all
the dvds and followed all your guests and i've been using your products since the first iteration
of survival shield and since then i'm on the x2 the super male vitality the caveman the real red
peel my cozy x body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to say that by following
you so much it's like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body you're detoxing
the spirit and it's just the more you know god the more you fear god but the more you chase god
and i wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners
out there 1776 worldwide do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the
globlest it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood
against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's
why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that
everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no
way the censors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name
and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning you're listening to the alex jones show
it's mind control mind control corruption of your thoughts
destruction of your soul mind control
control
joy veal is here award-winning and top 10 artist elijah schaefer just kind of like he says a
centrist person that's pro free speech a bunch of their videos are up on info wars dot com
and news wars dot com you can also i go to their sites we'll give you some of those so people can
check those out uh on screen but i tell you mike adams is riding shotgun with us uh right now and
and you you see this type of stuff going on and you see it unfolding and you see the left
attacking everybody everywhere and they're so it's like a kkk member saying the fifties
you know uh beating up a black person trying to go to vote or whatever they really believe
they're on the right and they believe the bs and calling her the inward all these videos every day
i see a new video uh where the left if it sees any black cops calls on that uh they attack women
they attack children i mean what is going on with these people well and my question to joy here would
be where are the leftists standing up for your right to exist as a citizen in this country as
someone who is who has a human soul who has freedom to speak who has your own personal diversity
and expression of who you are and there's not a single prominent leftist that has stood up for you
why is that joy ridiculous i think it's really because of maxine water she is like the godmother
of this violent leftist movement she's called for violence and attacks against trump supporters
so people they will see me and i am a black and latina woman i'm in hollywood like you said i'm
just being myself and yet they won't come to my defense because it is somehow justified to violently
attack to have racial slurs to call me every name the book and elijah simply because we're trump
supporters it's like that takes every human decency off the table and we're here for peace
we wanted to have conversation we had amazing conversations with people across the aisle before
this riot and this mob started and this guy was so violent he was hyped up on every drug in the book
elijah tell him what happened after we started seeing the national anthem so the national anthem
after we finished it actually most people started booing us and saying boo and i was like that's
that's the national anthem and they were like well it's not for trump because we didn't sing the
national anthem for trump we sing it because we're proud of our country yeah and they started
booing us welcome to los angeles for seeing the national anthem here in on the streets and they
were saying we don't want your kind here there's many people screaming we don't want your kind here
it's like i gotta ask you it's like 30 textbook following what you'd imagine is some racist yeah
exactly exactly it's like they're denying your right to exist do we have to drink
at different fountains we're gonna isolate and segregate different cafes we don't shop at the
same department stores it's like a new jim crow well that's another thing though the left doesn't
want us in their businesses and stuff but they don't even know how to work or do anything they would
all starve to death we weren't there that's true exactly yeah yeah well yeah i mean the violence
the violence escalated actually because the guy did leave after i told him stop disrespecting america
and stop calling us the n word because there was another older african-american gentleman there
who also told him the same thing he was offended and and we both were like stop it this is not okay
there's minors here put pull your pants up i mean he was showing us everything to everyone's
but in front of children which is the he was simulating sex he was doing the ground you know
he was getting in my face he's like i know you want it he's just gross everything gross person he came
back so he left and then he came back with four other guys and continued to get in our faces and
then that's when he was like oh you're not going to fight me yeah girl the hypocrisy of this though
is that they are doing this what in in the name of what they call equality and tolerance they call
themselves tolerant and they say that you joy that you are and then the media the control corporate
media will then cover up what's really happening of course and actually all they're doing is that
those those radical leftists are exposing like they're you know their inner pedophile or something
and i noticed you guys have a bunch of videos like these i mean it seems like things are escalating
but this whole summer rage i think they're trying to censor libertarians conservatives
ahead of something big what do you what do you think uh lydia and joy yeah so so what i think
is this so last weekend uh last thursday i went to maxine waters office to go report on a protest
that was happening there and i actually went this we can get into this too um because joy
is not my only friend of color um i have a friend named black mic you should can look him up on
instagram he's blowing up official black mic he's like the male candace owens and if you see here
we went to go report there and because i'm the wrong skin color now which is people say that this
whole idea of racism towards white people isn't real but because i have blonde hair look i'm a
youth pastor he is a youth worship leader i've been to bible college i do global missions i've
done in the philippines and mexico i mean i go all over the place i'm sharing the message of
jesus and a love and a peace and they're calling me a white supremacist calling me kkk um they're
going out there and then it's so funny because we're out there they accosted us they assaulted us
to the point where a pastor tried to get us out because they came at us with bats and you know
what that was not done because there's a bunch of angry black people in south central or whatever
torrents area it's because maxine waters has called them to violent she's she's okayed this
and that's exactly what happened when we were on hollywood boulevard they actually brought a knife
they stole his camera they stole three thousand dollar camera they stole it out of my cameraman
and they punched our guard who's a veteran who's a military veteran he was he was trying to do
crowd control and saying back up they didn't care we pulled them we go we go we go hey this guy is a
marine has some respect and all the kids by the way these are generations z all there like probably
20 25 kids are start saying who's 12 years old or nine years old he deserved it and stuff and
that's the next generation of what they're trying to bring up our anti-american anti anti-moral
anti-respect for for and this is the fight that broke out they literally he threw the first punch
at our dear man his name is tony and he actually suffered his face got split open he's suffering
from a concussion right now four guys four thugs on one yeah one conservative one conservative to
beat off four guys yeah like he actually beat them up yeah what are you doing to protect your safety
there i mean you what you're describing are incredible acts of violence and racism this is
happen right but also the courage you've got to have to just wear trump gear on hollywood boulevard
yeah no kidding right we're not inciting the violence we were smiling i was tough there was all
those little girls there i said oh you look so pretty girls look so cute you want to take a picture
we had the trump stand-up alize and i'm making jokes family we're live streaming list by the way
we have all of that footage on my periscope at joy underscore villa and on his youtube.com
slash slightly offensive and watch the whole live stream the whole thing and we're gonna write
articles about that as well we absolutely trump overall is doing a pretty good job but he
needs to make a bigger deal out of this persecution the i mean it it needs to be done it's it's race
based persecution suffering i mean this would be pro trump we're not it is all racial it's like
f you you're a black person f you you're a white person it's like all it's all race based it's
insane it's it's totally insane and look these these are are illegal acts of violence these are
discriminatory acts they're violating the civil rights of both of your guests here right now
these those attackers should be prosecuted and those who are complicit in that should be
prosecuted that's my take right well let me ask you about this police report because it was what
is it assault and burglary assault and burglary and we we want to push it as a hate crime because
the point is that he was calling us out for being white and for being black and saying that we
didn't matter and he was going to say whatever we don't belong yeah that our kind doesn't belong
so if you're black you're wrong and if you're white you're wrong and and if you're latino you're
wrong what where listen here's the deal he just he he means he follows steven colbert so let me
ask you this question obviously this guy needs to be discovered we need to find out his identity
we should have a hotline for that and the la pd won't prosecute him it's a serious issue
because a lot of other folks punching people in the head as well yes there is there's there's too
much violence going on simply for wearing this red hat simply for being pro trump simply for
wearing american flag nowadays you can get hurt and almost killed i mean i'm used to having death
threats but walking down the street wearing a trump hat that should not be the norm yeah let's
pull up joy vila in that great uh academy awards deal 2016 in the great red white blue dress i mean
that really made him mad but i mean this is america people should be able to plus just since
trump's been so successful with the economy and unemployment and something that you take it with
less in their anger but no it's worse now because if he gets proven right it's over for them especially
for minorities he's less than the burden we now have jobs you know my cousins who are black my
cousins who are latino they have jobs now because of trump the economy is flourishing and prospering
people are walking away from the democratic plantation and people are seeing that trump is
a peacemaker he's going to make peace with major uh you know superpowers around the world so that
america can be great again this is huge and also just to say to both of you you are so welcome here
at info wars you are welcome on our platforms create a channel on real.video by the way so we
can cover your videos editorially you are welcome here and you are loved here you are loved for
your work as a pastor you are loved for your work for peace thank you you're loved for your voice
for your spirit who you are we see you we recognize you and we embrace you and the establishment
wants to lie about both them they want to lie about both these great people and then misrepresent
that's why they want to silence us that's the key it's not just silences they want to silence us
and then misrepresent what we've done yes right right that's right it's a shut you out and i want
to say this at this point now in in los angeles it doesn't matter uh whether you're black brown or
white it doesn't matter if you're left or right we're fighting for a safe la safe la we have some
major social projects coming up between uh joy villa and slightly offensive and um we're also
going to be teaming up uh with uh some fleckus talks in the future and official black mic we're
starting an entire uh hold on we're back in 70 seconds do five more minutes talk about what
you're doing and what you see coming next but clearly we've passed the point over turn critical
juncture this summer and fall the globalists are making their move but so are we hour number four
straight ahead the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the look out
for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version
of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all
new version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports
your heart brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill and quickly become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and
body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the
boost at it get the real red pill plus at info wars store dot com you know if i tried to sit here
and tell you about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life it take hours michael zx plus and
now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast
the mold uh the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months
it's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body
then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it and our latest
product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement
with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without you we couldn't do it so thank you
all for remembering info wars store dot com and remembering that it's not just you that's already
awake but it's other people that aren't awake it's so essential to spread the word again thank you
so much for being part of the second american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show
we now take you live to the central texas commence center in the heart of the resistance
rallying patriots worldwide
you're listening to the alex jones show
so the big tech giants have gotten you 80 percent of the internet under control now they're trying
to censor everything bringing globalism it's failing they're plunging their stocks are plunging
they're in trouble people are leaving them in droves but they're desperately they're trying to
have case case points like the case studies to shut me down to shut others down and then set the
precedent so they can then send out their mobs on the street to beat up people and take action against
first amendment there so elijah schaefer joy vela are here mike adams i want to get a final
statement on all of you and i want to invite you guys back up very very soon the important work
you're doing and just get predictions of what you think's coming next yeah well we're working on
some projects together i have some new music coming out a song all about freedom and i really
want to push this free speech and peace loving movement forward right so check this out i know
a lot of your viewers are familiar with austin fletcher who who runs the uh online media group
fleckis talks and i know he's been a little bit under the radar and people have been wondering
what's going on where has he been where has he been on the street so i have good news
a slightly expensive and fleckis talks are joining forces for a new show that's coming out on youtube
called fleckis talks that's going to be hitting really hard issues across the aisle from left
to right everything is going to be on the table we're going to clear the air it's going to basically
change the way talk shows and and conversation happens and he's coming back bigger batter and
stronger and we're we're joining teams and actually our first guest is going to be i'm going to be
their first guest and everything is on the table as a conservative who is in this crazy atmosphere
any question no questions off the table just really being edgy about it on all my beliefs
that's very exciting and we want to follow that have you guys on i want to get fleckis on he's
been on before too he's got with a spoon right yeah yeah that's right that's right you're a good
friend of ours yeah yeah what's what's happening though with with the big push i see the left the
globalist want to try to sew things up by the end of the year i think they're i think they're making
their move oh yeah they're making their move i mean we've got socialism globalism coming out
from every woodwork their their only message now is going to be violence and literally when i had
conversations with a few leftists yesterday they said well donald trump incites violence i said
how does he incite violence he just does so they're going to blame us for their violent actions i see
a lot more from the left but i also see a lot of black and latinos running from the democratic
plantation i see a lot of them being exposed and being exposed to the truth and say no i don't want
to be a part of this party so it's up to the republicans and the trump lichens to say come on
over here we're the good guys and we're going to show you where you can thrive and where you can
that's right big tent so there is a walk away exodus happening mike i want to point out the
refreshing difference here look at these amazing people elijah and joy here and compare their spirit
and their soul versus the dark scumbag orcs who are pushing this violence and hatred across america
i mean i'm looking at you two here on the skype feed and you're just both of you are beautiful
both of you are what we need the human spirit for for not just america but for our world we need
more people like you and we are tired of having to stomp on gremlins and goblins and orcs everywhere
we don't want to live in that world no i agree and and that's the thing is just like anderson
cooper's new show 18 million dollars had 4 000 viewers like you said the human spirit is rejecting
them so guys what's the best website for people to find both of you your natural news dot com
mike adams the right work you're doing natural news dot com i'm info wars dot com news wars dot
com uh joy elijah what's the best sites for you guys i'm joy villa dot com you can follow me on
twitter at joy underscore villa um please i i appreciate your comments and i love you to
communication with you guys my joy tribe joy villa dot com right and you could find me at youtube
dot com slash slightly offensive or check me out twitter instagram at elijah schaefer all right
very excited let's talk again soon you guys come back on routinely time goes by we love you guys
watch your work really appreciate you thank you so much mike great job with your censorship master
plan decoded stuff on info wars dot com congress has got it people are starting to wake up the
shadow beddings of the news we've gone from no awareness to now some major awareness so great
job on the report mike and great job with the crew and everybody else uh we've got joel gilbert
coming up with key intel straight ahead in the war room info wars dot com news wars dot com however
you're listening spread those links the censors absolutely hate it they're really afraid of
this broadcast because they're afraid of you thank you all we all know that the outside toxins in
the water is a serious health issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost
impossible to keep up with every faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you
something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house
water filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water
filtration for your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size
easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply
and away from you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need
this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store dot com
and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your
current rundown systems it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration
system today
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
my welcome back to the alex jones show i'm joel gilbert coming to you right from the left coast
live from the people's republic of california here in los angeles uh you know me as a frequent
guest of alex i've talked about my film's dreams from my real father there's no place like utopia
the new film the trump the art of the insults in the info store info wars store i'll be taking a lot
of calls today i've been hosting for several months lots of great guests and i get about a hundred
emails every time that i only took one phone call so i will be taking a bunch of calls later
eight seven seven seven eight nine alex eight seven seven seven eight nine two five three nine
and uh we'll talk about anything you want to talk about uh first i'm going to give some of my takes
uh we got coming up next monday be sure to watch uh jz has produced a documentary on the trayvon
martin case called uh rest in power about trayvon martin and what occurs to me is that the timing
of this is quite suspect the midterms elections are coming up and jz was a big buddy of obama of
course many parties to of course fiance lip sync the national anthem at the inauguration second
inauguration so it occurs to me that this is a just a typical formula of the democrats they try
to agitate uh or activate uh black people by controlling their emotions with something you
know very incendiary about the tragic death of trayvon martin and uh let's take a quick
reminder how the case started in the first place of course uh apparently trayvon martin was walking
through this uh apartment complex neighborhood watch guy george zimmerman sees he's kind of hanging
around and not going anywhere calls the cops gets out some point trayvon sucker punches him in the
nose gets on top of him starts bashing his head in the cement zimmerman calls for help nobody
comes to help him eventually he takes out a gun and shoots him uh he's very apologetic he's very
sorry he puts his hand his puts himself in the hands of the police no lawyer he does a recreation
he submits to interviews two weeks later the cops said that it was self-defense there's no evidence
all the witnesses support zimmerman's account and the cops did their job it was you know zimmerman
put himself in the justice system to be treated fairly but then the department of justice figured
out way we've got the midterms coming we've got the actually presidential elections coming up in
november and wouldn't this be really good to agitate people let's send the doj down there to
help in fact the doj came down and organized protests and try to get a case against zimmerman
put together and what they ignored was the reality of the situation is the local cops gave zimmerman
justice they also ignored the fact that trevon martin when you looked at his life when you
learned about his life he had a very typical experience of a lot of black people in this
country he was a a student in high school no jobs and in the obama economy probably couldn't
find a job as a high school student so a lot of kids like him are attracted to nonsense like
buying and dealing drugs uh we saw in his text messages his uncle was selling him a gun
uh involved in all kind of nonsense such that he ended up there in that in that situation a very
tragic death and uh the democrats decided to essentially use that tragic death of mr martin
as well as use the other this guy this democrat george zimmerman who was an obama supporter
he'd helped black people the sherman warehouse he was someone who was an advocate uh for the
underprivileged a hispanic guy and the democrats and obama just exploited the tragedy uh and this
is just very typical so when you i encourage everyone to check it out on monday and i think
there's a second installment the next week of jz's documentary i'll be watching rest in power
and see what you think about it and we can talk about it next time now when i think of democrats
that's lately i'm thinking of them as little children i call this segment children democrats
children and adults i want to play a little bit of my trailer of there's no place like utopia
we're gonna watch that and see what the mentality is
oh we're glad you landed on us we've got a wizard here you can solve your problems because
he's special you can keep your dot you can keep your plan
uh people on uh welfare assistance here mostly that's the whole city
we're gonna replace capitalism socialist to remake the world as it should be
okay let's cut it off right there it's the kingdom of heaven on earth you get the idea of uh
from there's no place like utopia so i think of democrats as as little kids little kind of like
uh crying babies that kind of want to have everything their way they want to play all
the time and they in this case i'd like to play government uh so i start to think of things like
well what do little kids like to do what do they like to do number one they like to ride bikes
let's take a look at john carrey riding a bike and how that worked out from trump the art of the
insult john carrey okay john carrey in this film you'll see how much he likes to ride bikes and
how trump reacted in trump the art of the insult uh he was in geneva what else do
little kids like to do they like to play doctor obama care you know if you like your plan you
can keep your plan let's play doctor we'll take 400 dollars from everyone who doesn't want to play
and we'll give it to people who don't want to pay that's a fun game oh sorry there's no more
insurance companies oh i'm sorry the price went up there's no more hospitals let's you know let's
play another game uh let's look at john carrey playing on his bicycle let's play that from part
of the insult nuclear policy went awry for us secretary of state john carrey police he falls
he breaks his leg during the negotiation i swear to you i will never be in a bicycle race as long
as i press okay so uh little children like to play doctor they like to ride bikes what else
little children like cartoon characters cartoon characters very interesting for little children
and i think that's why democrats like people like stalin and mao uh chavez of course uh
castro the castro brothers che guavara you know obama was obsessed with going to cuba wanted
to meet castro he wanted to have his picture with che guavara democrats and progressives
love these funny strange cartoon characters like chavez mao stalin that's another thing
that little children like uh little children also don't like authority they don't like adults
getting in the way that's why they hate the police that's why they want to get rid of ice
immigration enforcement if they get rid of immigration enforcement of course the next
target is the police uh because they don't little kids don't like rules they want to get rid of the
people that enforce the rules so i think what happened in 2016 is the adults showed up to the
polls and we elected an adult trump came and said okay kids we need to put some order in the house
let's get the economy moving let's fix foreign policy you guys have made a big mess it's time
to clean up now of course the democrats they don't like these mean adults they're taking away our fun
we wanted to play doctor we wanted to play diplomat we wanted to ride bikes so the democrats
have a big tantrum they go out on the streets two million protesters when he's elected they say we
don't want it we don't want to you know we don't want to play we're not going to play we're going
to resist we're not going to play unless we can have our way our buddy our best friend James Hodgkinson
is going to make a big mess we love destruction you know how little kids love destruction we're
going to make a big mess until you get out of the room mom or dad we're going to knock it all down
and so that's what the democrats have become today a party of little children that want to play
health care they want to play doctor they want to play diplomats they want to play all these
things that just turn into a big mess and one of their things that little kids and babies do
they like to lie little kids lie and the latest biggest lie from the little babies of course
is the russia hoax so when we come back from the break we're going to talk about the big lie of the
children called the russia hoax and we'll be right back here on the alex jones show
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your
doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a
challenge control your own health care costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health
share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going
to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back
to nature expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile unique sling shots and
sling bows on the market at slingbow.com slingbow products are compact and models start from just
1798 they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your
loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow a new frontier in archery and truly modern
twist on this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at slingbow.com if you or anyone you
love has been diagnosed with lung cancer asbestosis or mesothelioma your diagnosis may be the result
of job related exposure to asbestos and you may be entitled to compensation over 30 billion entrusts
have been set aside for individuals who have been affected by asbestos exposure how do you
protect your rights and get the compensation you deserve call capital legal group now at 800 400
lung capital legal group is one of the nation's resources for settlement of lung cancer and
mesothelioma cases law firms have successfully recovered over 2.7 billion dollars for their
clients in all 50 states and claims have been paid in as little as 60 days if you or a family
number were diagnosed with lung cancer asbestosis or mesothelioma call capital legal group now at
800 400 lung will open a no-cost case review on your behalf a history of tobacco use or
cigarette smoking will not disqualify your case visit 800 400 lung.com or call 800 400 lung call
800 400 5864 now that's 800 400 lung fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced
the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday
maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful
nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut
and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help
keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better
time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't miss out on
the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify
the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's
made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with
detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that
i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers
together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info warslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's alex jones
welcome back to the alex jones show i'm joel gilbert hosting from the peoples republic of california
here in los angeles thanks for being back with us here i will be taking a lot of calls shortly
it's uh one eight hundred seven eight nine alex and uh we're talking about the all the lies of the
children how democrats behave like children they like to play doctor they like to play diplomat
they like to ride bikes they like to make a mess and if they can't get their way they uh resist
and protest and have a tantrum another big thing that uh little children do is create big lies so
the big lie is of course the russia hoax the book came out finally we've been hearing about
greg jared from fox news called the russia hoax the elicit scheme to clear hillary clinton
and frame donald trump now i've been thinking about how the democrats came up with his hoax
and i think i have some good information and perspective that tells us reinforces the fact
that it is a hoax you have to say well how did they come up with the idea to frame donald trump
to say hey donald trump you're working for the russians now remember the russia the democrats
have been up to their ears in russians and communists for 50 years also remember that
socialism is a war on the individual it's a war on individualism and individual liberty
it's about collectivism the collective idea is there's one set of rules and one set of beliefs
and that's it if you don't believe in it you're crazy that's why they called it being anti-soviet
in the soviet union if you didn't believe in the collective you're anti-soviet and you can
end up in a gulag they send you away so democrats and progressives really don't have any new ideas
since 1917 so they don't know how to think of ideas they're not creative uh they just say well
the government's going to take all your property we're going to control all the industry we're
going to have a police force to force you to go to work and we'll take all the money for ourselves
and if you object it's the gulag you're going to the gulag so that's why during the cold war
the the progressive love Joseph Stalin as a chronicler in my movie most people have seen
also in full war store dreams from my real father i chronicled how frank marshall davis
was one of the original black bolsheviks out of chicago he was sent to hawaii in 1948 on the
orders of the kremlin to organize a dock worker strike to try to remove the u.s naval forces from
hawaii which the soviets considered an obstacle to expansion in asia uh in the 60s the weather
underground sds they loved russia they collaborated with cuban intelligence into the 80s ted kennedy
it was revealed in the russian archives that ted kennedy tried to work with russian dictator former
kgb head uh yury andropov to undermine ronald reagan it was in the archives we can pull up those
that article of ted kennedy and you'll see that it's an actual document that he tried to get the
russians to work with him to undermine reagan of course we know that bernie sanders obsessed with
loving russia during the cold war the all the oppression the political prisoners bernie sanders
thinks it's a great place to honeymoon he'll just go honeymoon in the soviet union you know
you know so uh you see people showing up today you saw people showing up to the last few years
a couple years ago to bernie sanders rallies he would say things like you know we're gonna
break up the banks we're gonna break up the pharmaceutical companies that's pure communism
it means the government's gonna control all these industries and of course state bureaucrats
are not as skilled as entrepreneurs so all these businesses end up failing that's pure
communism but people would clap people clap for bernie sanders even though they had no idea what
he was talking about and that is a grave danger that people are voting for people like sanders
and obama not knowing the evil idea they have in mind and you have to also say why did they come
up with the russia hoax well because they thought of it because obama was controlled by putin let's
take a quick look at this video obama medvedev back in 2012 a few months ago when you were asked
what's the biggest geopolitical threat facing america you said russia not al-qaeda you said russia
in the 1980s are now calling to ask for their foreign policy back because you know the cold war
has been over for 20 years okay so that's that's obama let's cut it off that's obama showing
that he's going to cooperate with russia and so you gotta ask when he tells medvedev i'll be more
flexible after the election that should have been a special council uh trump never did anything like
that but it shows he's under the control of putin because uh obama was the most pro russia president
in his first term he canceled the missile defense shield in eastern europe he reset gave technology
transfers to russia leaving from behind that means america does not lead the world lead the free
world allowing russia to fill the vacuum in the balance of power they invaded karmia they set up
a base in syria obama made the iran deal this is all pro russia it all benefits russia so obama
was the most pro russia president and i think i even said at the national press club in 2012
that it was dangerous for an american president to maintain a secret that if it came out it would
ruin his political career if i could figure out that his real father was a russian agent uh frank
marshal davis who radicalized him then the uh kgb that had a file on davis also figured it out so
that's the real russia hopes and that's where the democrats got the idea from our guys been
controlled by the russians we've been in bed with the russians wouldn't it be funny if we said that
trump does that so that's how it all came about that's the mentality and that's their inability
to come up with creative ideas they just had to say well here's what we do um you know and the
reason they don't like russia today is because they're not communist they liked russia a lot better
when they were communists when it was government control government owns all the property
you don't agree with the government you go to prison that's when they were infatuated with russia
they don't like putain because he's bringing back capitalism free markets traditional values
and christianity they don't like that they don't like russia very much anymore so that's the real
story of where the democrats are coming from with this whole russia idea and what's motivating them
and where their ideas come from today they're back to being openly radical openly radical
democrat party they were hiding it for a while we're going to take more a bunch of phone calls
the rest of the way the rest of the hour 80789 alex 180789 alex let me take my first call
dr kelly in norcal go ahead dr kelly
hey thank you so much for your work and for taking my call i have three really important
documentaries that i need to figure out how to get out one of them is on the cellular towers
and or the disguised weaponized mono pine m o n o p i n e here in california
uh apparently they're now being deployed on uh utility trucks by verizon at and t
and uh no public notice of any kind no signage no nothing um i i need to know how to do this
okay well uh you got some concerns you should definitely keep reading about them and writing
about them uh we're going to be right back in about a couple of minutes we're going to take
only your calls the rest of the way we got westley we got judy uh jim and andrew we're standing by
we'll be right back on the alex jones show health care reform is confusing but whether
it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed
prescriptions navigating the health care system has become a challenge control your own health
care costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance
it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the
cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to
libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org it's a no-brainer a big burky water filter is the
one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals
bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does
it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity water
filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems
using code gcm call or click 187799 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's one eight seven
seven nine nine b e r k e y do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot
com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary
and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying
that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the
world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the
word you are the info ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than
ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's
no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name
and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign
up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout
for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version
of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all new
version of the powerhouse franklin on product it features the same great formula that supports
your heart brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
franklin on base the real red pill it could become one of our fellow info wars favorite products
now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your monta
leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a
healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at info wars store dot com nourish a probiotic friendly environment
in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support
overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically
studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments
in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support
your immune system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality
organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning
of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call
1-888-253-3139 you're listening to the alex jones show
from deep in the heart of fema region six austin texas transmitting worldwide it's alex jones
welcome back to the alex jones show joel gilbert broadcasting from the people's republic of
california uh don't forget in the alex jones store trump the art of the insult my new movie
you'll laugh for for 95 minutes and you'll learn a lot about trump's branding and marketing techniques
you'll really enjoy this movie buy it from the info wars store you'll be taking calls the rest
of the way let's go to judy in florida judy you're on the alex jones show hi mr gilbert um
i'd have two things the first is uh i think whether anyone comes from a christian perspective
or their asia i think they should go to second cecelonian chapter two and read it in its entirety
it explains a lot of i think what's happening current day um but really what i wanted to get to
was i think the tripwire for um the deep state george soros the left of uh getting this war
started that they want so badly is there going is it there's going to be a peaceful event that
leftists will turn around and infiltrate and start a big fight and someone from out of nowhere
is going to come from behind the conservative christian the the right crowd and it's going to
be an ar-15 or something like that and there's going to be casualties okay all right thanks
thanks for the call thanks for the call let me comment look the uh the democrats the uh
progressives have always relied on strife on strife between communities on conflict
so they can say well let me solve the problem for you if everybody's going to church and working and
traditional values and people are happy there's no justification for radical change so they
have to create chaos in order to justify uh that they can take power you mentioned that george soros
of course longtime agitator funder uh originally a uh a nazi collaborator that uh people don't even
know the the deep history of this he was one of the few nazi collaborators not to be executed by
the soviets when he was captured lo and behold he shows up in london a few years later selling
stolen art uh that was taken by the nazis from uh from jewish people uh the connection of how he
survived and how he got so rich and how he you know embarked on a campaign to destroy western
civilization literally starting with trying to collapse the british pound in the 80s uh i think
has to be examined and tied back to his relationship with the russians when they captured him don't
forget when he was 14 the nazis gave him a choice you can die or you can work for us so uh i wouldn't
be surprised if that was the choice he was given by the the russians and that's why he's done everything
he's done up to today let's go to westley in oregon westley i'm sorry yeah you're in oregon go ahead
westley hello joel how are you doing hello all right yes sir go ahead just well first thing i'd like
to say is i've bought products from info wars i have my alpha power student here i have my caveman
and all that and i'm going to the rally on the fourth with my i stand with trump shirt and i just
bought a hundred dollars worth of super blue crocs and whatnot but anyway the thing i wanted to talk
about was i cannot even see donald trump's recent tweet on his twitter when i go directly to his
twitter and i don't know if this is a new if this is happening everywhere but i only thing i can see
for two days ago the russian hoax tweet that is the only thing i can see anyway all right let me
comment look uh the democrats when they control the tools of state when they control the irs the
fbi the doj they use the tools of state to control thought to control what people think control what
they say control the agenda of course control the elections people forget 2012 was not a clean
election obama used the irs to break up the tea party movement so he could win reelection because
his economy and his ideas weren't working same thing repeat 2016 he used the doj fbi cia to try
to defeat trump and in case he won to frame him so this is their playbook now now that they're out
of power they're trying to use their connections and their sympathizers in industry whether it's
a twitter google amazon i did a show earlier this year regarding amazon that amazon did not make money
they just barely broke even until a couple years ago they paid bezos from the cia gave a 600 million
dollar contract no bid illegal to bezos to design a website for the cia 600 million dollars he turned
around a week later and bought the washington post for 250 million which of course is a big
sympathizer and all of a sudden he's the richest guy in the world so don't think there's not a strong
connection to the deep state what i call the police state and all these big industries uh
especially the tech industries and uh twitter's just another one of them and they're going to use
their tools to suppress the free speech suppress opinion that differs with them it's a very sick
evil plan to destroy free speech to destroy the elements of the constitution that make america
great and we're seeing this assault instead of coming from the government from obama and his
deep state departments the oj it's coming from now it's transferred to the tech industry
let's go to uh jim and rhoda island we got you on the alex jones show jim go ahead
yes how you doing joe um i've got a quick question for you do you think the united states is an empire
i think it's an empire i think after world war two the united states had been through
two world wars in uh you know 25 years uh there was a decision that was made that the united states
needs to uh project its power around the world in order to prevent uh dragging itself into another
world war uh that meant stationing troops in germany uh facing down communist aggression in
southeast asia trying to combat and prevent uh regional wars and regional madmen from dragging
america into a world war so this is how i think that concept developed that america felt we're
better off stationing and preventing conflicts and and fighting small conflicts than we are
entering another world war so that's how the idea developed that america would project its power
around the world to maintain the peace uh i think it can be thought of uh you know in that way i
don't think it's an an empire is someone that really projects their power in order to control and
take over uh countries and manage their affairs i think sometimes america has delved into that
but it's not the the main goal is to is to maintain peace and security throughout the world
for the benefit of the united states as well as as well as our allies uh let's go to uh
uh why it in california by the way uh don't forget it's 1 800 789 alex taking calls the rest
of the way 1 800 789 alex uh go ahead why it you're on the alex jones show yeah it is up to
the i completely agree with you about these people being utter uh children it seems kind of hard to
believe that they're in a sense even beating us at this point uh they have to destroy our free speech
because in an open debate they just can't win adults or adults can't be beat by children
and that's essentially what they're trying to do in their acting very childish and it's really sad
it's like a it's like a 30-year-old it's like what used to be an 18-year-old is now 30-year-old
we're like uh arrested development always if you know like look the the entire reaction to
trump react being elected the next day they had a 2 million person tantrum um adana everybody
else screaming oh well that's not my president i'm not going to play i'm not going to play anymore
because you are now in in charge we liked it when we could play doctor we could play obama care we
could play veterans administration we could play uh diplomats we could go play footsie with the
russian we liked it when we were in control so the uh the entire what you hear now it's just
every time adam schiff opens his mouth whose lips are moving he's lying and that's what little
kids do they lie they don't cooperate they have a tantrum and uh that's what the democrat party
has come to is just a group of lying uncooperative children that want to resist and refuse to
participate unless they can control they don't like the adults are in the room donald trump's an
adult they don't like it when there's adults around get rid of the police get rid of the
borders let's have fun let's have a party uh it doesn't matter that they destroyed the economy
under obama and we do have an incredible recovery uh thanks to dollum trump we right back for the
next segment we'll take more calls 80789 alex we all know that the outside toxins in the water
is a serious health issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible
to keep up with every faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something
to provide clean water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water
filtration system is an advanced four-stage compact filtration system that will provide water
filtration for your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact
in size easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your
water supply and away from you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction
you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home
head to info wars store dot com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or
you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time to go big and go home with the
pro pure whole house filtration system today i want to plow into all of this
that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any
clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com i don't
want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children
and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad the colloidal silver
and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine
and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands
against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we
know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
info wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it
it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers uh from berries
and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for
regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture
for a life as well as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the
gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products you get them separately or together and make really really big savings and
get high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you
bodies sold out in a month uh strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with it's
sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and i think it's gonna
be the same way with this fiber get yours today in full wars life dot com choose to take control
of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect
for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is
made from a source of 100 percent organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an
essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential
mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and
organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work
together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super
combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
so
so
it's alex jones on the gcm radio network
welcome back to the alex jones show joel gilbert with you for the last segment
right from the left coast from the people's republic of california uh i am taking calls
the rest of the way 877789 alex i mentioned the next monday there's going to be a special by jz
called rest in power about trevon martin and i talked about how suspect it was again they're
trying to bring this up before an election to try to agitate to try to inflame emotions especially
of african americans uh to try to vote democrat that's the game that we see again and again
but let's take a call from john in seattle go ahead john you're on alex jones show hi joel
thanks for taking my call um i just wanted to mention that uh he didn't mention but the night of
the trevon's death he was peeking through windows and there was a bunch of robberies in that complex
and that was never really highlighted but it it was a fact and it was very suspicious um also
wanted to mention that my buddy was the news reporter who uh mis-recorded on that jeff bernside
and he uh he uh he got fired because of it and um you know he was kind of a sacrificial lamb
it seems and i just wanted to just pass that along okay thanks yeah look it was a very tragic
story uh trevon martin 17 year old kid in high school he'd had uh been in and out of some trouble uh
i guess this neighborhood had a lot of crime uh george zimmerman saw him kind of hanging around
and he thought he better reported as he was told to do if people remember the case it's five year
anniversary of that of that tragic tragic story and uh uh yeah apparently trevon martin had been in
some trouble and when i look at his history it's very tragic and very similar to a lot of uh black
youth that there's no employment uh i think he'd been in and out of drug issues uh suspended from
school his parents were divorced very typical of what the democrat party has brought to the black
community for 50 years they've been in control of these progressive cities for 50 60 years uh violent
culture drug culture uh single women uh broken homes it was just very tragic you just got to
wonder that if uh trevon martin had any opportunities what if what if uh donald trump was president
uh and not obama during obama there were no jobs they were trying to uh you know bring in illegals
knock down the borders to bring them into these urban communities to take jobs from black people
to drive down the wages i wonder if donald trump was president trevon martin would have had some
opportunity right now there's more jobs than there are people to fill them it was the opposite
back in 2012 after four years of obama so you just wonder uh trevon martin is probably someone who
would rather have a job but when i did my movie there's no place like utopia i went to south side
chicago everybody there talked to a lot of black people on welfare and they didn't want to be on
welfare they wanted a job but there was no opportunity so uh think about that when you
watch it i would tune in uh to the uh bet or paramount network on monday uh for that jz
documentary uh definitely watch it and see what kind of political agenda there is or if they really
do tell the true story uh let's go to another caller uh adam in florida hey joe can you hear me
yes sir go ahead hey it's a pleasure to talk to you i watched some of your film particularly
dreams from my real father okay thanks it enjoyed it very much and i wanted to give kind of credit
to obama where it's due because you know he's the only president i could remember that ever let me
see naked pictures of his mother and um well yeah there are go ahead go ahead i wanted to
ask you in particular though where did you get the original seed for that movie like you know like
how did you get the idea that he might okay well thanks for asking like uh you know back in 2012 i
was following info wars world net daily and i kept reading about the birth certificate everybody said
where's the birth certificate where's the birth certificate and there was no answer and i always
knew that if you if you don't know the answer to the question it means you're not asking the right
question they're not asking the right question so i read obama's biography autobiography dreams
from my father and throughout the entire book he talks about frank marshall davis frank is his go
to guy this guy raised him and so i went and found a book by frank marshall davis called live in the
blues and you open the book and there's 20 pictures of frank marshall davis he's the spitting image of
barack obama he looks exactly like him and the kenyan looks nothing like obama so i realized at
that moment i said look the where's the birth certificate is not the question the question is
who's the real father if you answer that question you get an obama's entire political agenda obama
was radicalized by frank marshall davis a soviet agent a russian spy who attempted to help overthrow
united states government during the cold war this is the guy that raised barack obama now you
understand the whole agenda so that's how i got into it it was just by following my interest so
thanks a lot for asking and be sure to get that film in the info wars store let's go to john in
arizona john in arizona you're on alex john show are you with us john
okay hello are you there yes sir go ahead john
okay i think we lost them we're gonna have to move on let's go to dan in texas dan in texas
go ahead you're on the alex john show thank you sir i have a question we're tough we were tough with
north korea but we're not really tough on mexico that the communist president that just got elected
it's telling everybody's got both borders open come to america to have a new life you know that
could be considered an act of war and maybe they build their own fence if they know that we're not
gonna deal with it if they don't deal with it maybe we can just go in there and clean that place out
the drugs and you know i would call them missiles coming here full of disease crap
i mean what do you think about that well look uh the issue with the mexican border has simply
been political will and the lack of enough republicans or anyone to want to go ahead and
secure the border there's a number of reasons why democrats don't want to secure the border
they need voters they can't fool the regular people can't fool all the people all the time
they're a lot of black people are getting more successful the economy's helping they move out
of the inner cities they want to replace them with these illegals and with voters from south america
democrats have their agenda republicans the of course the department of chamber of commerce
have liked the immigrants the illegal immigrants driving down wages also detrimental to minorities
so you've had these strong interests that have been pushing against securing the border so the
political will of the of donald trump that ran his campaign on you know build that wall and being
elected to do so uh is battling it now having a battle with the old interests that don't want to
secure the border so it could be done in in you know in a few weeks in a month in two months
if he can garner the support so i think it's going to be up to the midterms if uh
trump republicans are very successful in the midterms i think uh it's going to happen if they're
not successful in the midterms i think we're looking at a screeching halt to much of the the
trump agenda that people voted for uh let's go to uh liberty smith in oklahoma you're on the
alex jones show hey jill how are you excellent thanks for being here good uh i just wanted to
touch base on the soros thing that you were talking about a little bit earlier and my question is
simply he's been doing all these things even in the united states why hasn't anybody picked up on
prosecuting him look the short answer yeah i mean the short answer is money i mean
i mean he gives hundreds of millions to all these leftist organization the tides foundation of
every time there's some crazy leftist idea you start googling it on the web and you find out
it's getting money from some other soros front group so the amount of money that he throws around
into the legal system into uh you know foundations it's just incredible how much money he's able
to put in people's pockets to to prevent to control the agenda look at hillary clinton how many crimes
over the year she has a rap sheet you know 10 feet long uh but she's connected to that network so
the uh amount of money coming in through the soros gang is uh much more significant than
republicans giving money to some pack you know that they complain about citizens united the big deal
is the social justice organizations and even if one of them gets shut down they just slither over
to another one they're very formidable in washington with in the legal circles they're formidable in
every state and uh it's the uh the amount of money he's able to put in and i think it it's
very interesting to really look at his early history how did he get out of nazi europe uh
being a nazi spy and how did why did the russians let him go and how to become so rich so quickly
i think the answer is pretty obvious especially when you look what he's done and whose interest
he's been serving uh for so many years uh thanks for being here today that's the last call on the
alex joneshow i'm joel gilbert from the people's republic of california i'll see you next week or
in two weeks uh everybody god bless america keep tuning in to the alex joneshow years ago info war's
life created the powerful michael zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on
and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better
formula to help support your gut health michael zx plus is the result of the search for that formula
a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal
organisms there's no better product to help your body fight back michael zx plus helps support a
healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal
yeast that can cause you problems if it goes on chat powered by an impressive list of ingredients
including grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by
ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the
new and improved michael zx plus today at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com
staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements
don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super
blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 60
ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible
new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay
clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features
silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle
staying toxin free is easy and affordable helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy
with super blue silver immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
