The
Alex Jones show, because there is a war on, for your mind.
The View, a panel of leftists spewing Alinsky-I-Propaganda slogans based on weaponized disinformation
to their gullible mob audience.
It's only a matter of time before Trump derangement syndrome begins to bubble to the surface.
I mean, I have been in the crime business for over three decades, and I think I said
that before.
And I know a con when I see it.
And I think that what has happened in the last, I think that what has happened truly
in the last campaign, and everybody needs to be concerned about that.
Lady Justice is supposed to be blind.
Not an ideologue.
I'm not.
I am in law enforcement.
Let me ask you the question.
Right and left.
Do you think Donald Trump embraces and embodies conservative ideology?
Remember, he used to be, have a different position on pro-choice.
He's imposing tariffs.
He's against globalism.
Do you think he is an ideologue that is faithful to conservative policies?
You know, I'm not here to talk about what Donald Trump is and isn't, but I don't know
about it.
No, you got to answer the question.
You want to talk about Donald Trump.
You tell me what metric in this country is worse off.
Unemployment is lower than it's been in 50 years.
Minorities, Hispanics, African-Americans have dropped what he had when he had his
hate crimes.
And wait a minute.
The GDP under Obama was barely one.
We're going up to four.
And if Democrats don't get there, you know what, together, he's certainly going to get
to the last one.
Here's my question for you.
Here's my question for you, because you talk about, you talk about.
I am not.
Oh, yeah.
Did you just point at me?
Yeah.
Listen, I don't have Trump deranged me.
Let me tell you what I have.
Okay.
I have a lot of, I'm tired of people starting a conversation with Mexicans, or Lyres, and
rapists.
I'm tired of people starting a conversation.
This is where the Trump derangement syndrome starts to fester.
Whoopi is arguing a moot point.
Yes, Whoopi.
Over 32% of federal inmates in the U.S. are illegal aliens.
And yes, roughly 5,000 U.S. citizens die every year as a result of illegal alien drivers.
And yes, there is a largely ignored rape epidemic of American children by illegal aliens.
And yes, it does cost the U.S. taxpayers roughly $113 billion per year to pick up the
tab on the illegals pouring over our border.
Whoopi's frustration is meaningless, because regardless of what fantasy the left may believe,
we do have immigration laws, and most Americans want them enforced and strengthened.
Listen, I'm 62 years old.
There have been a lot of people in office that I didn't agree with.
But I have never, ever seen anything like this.
I've never seen anybody whip up such hate.
I've never seen anybody be so dismissive.
Next, Whoopi mockingly asks what is the deep state, as if it were on par with the fictional
Legion of Doom?
One of the things that you talk about a lot, and I'm curious about it, is the deep state.
How long has the deep state been there, and who's running it?
Unfortunately, the judge isn't permitted to answer.
So I will answer for her.
The deep state is a massive bureaucratic fourth branch of government that continues to infest
Washington D.C. as it remains indefinitely immune to our election process.
As presidents and congressmen have come and gone, foreign and internal corruption have
ensured that the deep state has grown in stature, feeding on limiting and ultimately destroying
our Bill of Rights in order to gain an elitist totalitarian stranglehold on our country and
its citizens.
Its minions inhabit the intelligence community, the Pentagon, congressional lobbyists and politicians
think tanks like the Council on Foreign Relations and representatives of the United
Nations as the UN Agendas 21 and 30 are wielded on sovereignty across the globe.
Its origins in the United States are embedded in the history of the Federal Reserve, and
we have been told of its intentions.
Eisenhower warned us of the military-industrial complex, JFK warned us of secret societies,
and previous presidencies have exposed its power by cow-towing the policies in direct
opposition of their own promises to the American citizenry.
It's not a small, insignificant boogeyman whoopee, it is massive and it is very real.
The irony is, the daughter of one of its most prominent agents, John McCain, is sitting directly
across from you, a man that we know.
Taking your body is hard work, that's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily
digestive pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive, there's no better way to power
your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
On this live Sunday edition of the Alex Jones Show, Roger Stone is going to be hosting.
I asked Roger Stone to host today because literally hundreds of stories that he's broken the last
two years have turned out to be deadly accurate.
So I'm going to ask him to review some of those, but also tell us what's coming next.
But first, I wanted to reveal some incredible hypocrisy, in fact, it's beyond hypocrisy.
It is an insult to every thinking human being.
And that's Hillary Clinton.
She's come out today and said that she believes the Russians are going to hack the 2018 election.
So she wants Democrat-controlled Homeland Security, they've got their people still in
control, to federalize the elections.
Obama signed an executive order to do this 10 days before he left office in 2017.
Have they ever get this in place?
We'll never have real elections again like Venezuela.
They know there's been a major political realignment against them.
And so now they're seeking to end our representative republic.
Now, let's get to the major hypocrisy.
She added on to this lie, when the evidence says the Democratic Party has illegal aliens
voting all over the country, they've legalized it in San Francisco and Chicago and other
areas.
No, the evidence is the deep state, the globalist, the special interest backed up by the Communist
Chinese are the ones manipulating our elections.
That's where all the evidence is in every Netflix show and Hollywood movie and the news,
95% anti-Donald Trump, anti-nationalist, but I'm sorry.
I'm digressing.
What is the big giant piece of beyond hypocrisy?
Hillary Clinton thinks you have no memory.
Hillary Clinton thinks you're an idiot.
She wrote a book in 2014 called Hard Choices.
And in the book, Hard Choices, she talks about her deep bonding personally in private secret
meetings that she only reveals in the book with Vladimir Putin.
Then I did some research.
You can look it up online.
She also filed when she was secretary of state more than six times we know of to allow Bill
Clinton to get a waiver around several federal laws to meet secretly with Vladimir Putin
as her agent for the Clinton Foundation.
The state department does not tell us if they ever gave the authorization, ladies and gentlemen.
That is the mega hypocrisy.
She is not only saying that the Russians plan to steal the 2018 election with no proof,
saying that voters don't really want to realign, they don't really want to be populist, they
don't really want to be nationalist, they don't really want to be free market.
They're not really rejecting Bernie Sanders and Ms. Cortez and all their communism.
No, no, no.
The Russians did it.
But here's the hypocrisy.
She met with Putin at least twice secretly and brags about their deep bonding and Putin
telling her about his mother surviving in World War II under a pile of bodies and all
this other stuff and she only tells you in a book it had been secret and then she turns
around and says President Trump cannot be trusted that he's compromised because he
met with Putin behind closed doors at a public sanctioned event.
Public summits, they always had private summits, always with world leaders.
When you're the president, that's what you do.
But the way they twist this and the way they think that the public would never figure
this out, that the public would never understand this is just insane.
But what's even crazier is I did Google and Bing searches and found it very hard to even
find the original articles where she admitted all this four years ago.
They have been definitely downvoted, blocked, removed, you name it.
Because long before they made up the Russian narrative to blame American voters and populism
and claim that we didn't really elect Trump, she was deeply in bed with the Russians, the
Chai Khoms and others and sold out 20-plus percent of our uranium via Uranium-1.
Robert Mueller landed on tarmacs with secret uranium transfers to let them see how strong
it was.
And no matter how many Snopes articles they write, these are the facts because it comes
from Hillary's own statements and the State Department record as well.
So you heard that right.
Hillary Clinton met when she was Secretary of State secretly with Vladimir Putin repeatedly
and sought authorization from Bill Clinton to do it at least six times.
This needs to be investigated.
This needs to be exposed.
This is the evidence of the real Russian collusion.
Now we're about to go to Roger Stone live, but I wanted to add this point.
Roger, in January of 2017 and right through March, first broke the illegal FISA warrant
meaning that they had gotten the warrant against Carter Page and others by line to the FISA
court.
Then earlier this year, the FISA court issued a report admitting that they'd been lied to
at least four separate times and calling for an investigation.
That got almost no coverage as well in the control press.
I wonder why.
And now it's all come out that indeed the president was illegally spied on even before
he got the nomination going back to 2015 by Barack Hussein Obama who was running the
operation out of the White House.
This is a ultra-massive scandal and Roger Stone will now break it all down today and
look into the future about what he believes is coming next, but make no mistake.
They know humanity's awake.
They know we're involved.
They know we're informed and they're making their move to shut down the free press, to
shut down info wars like never before, congressional hearings last week, every major so-called
news channel attacking us calling for us to be shut down because we continue to be way
ahead of the curve.
We continue to be next level, next year's news today and that's why info wars is so
precious.
I wish the other talk show host, I wish the other Patriot sites were as informed as we
are.
Quite frankly, the other place I see that is this cutting edge is zero hedge, sometimes
daily caller.
I want to be eclipsed.
I want to be made obsolete because I want my children to have a future.
I want the type of understanding we have to be mainstream and it's beginning to become
mainstream in the general public's minds and the globalists know if everybody catches
on the fact that info wars is the zeitgeist, we will win very, very quickly instead of
a long, protracted, serious, ongoing, force generation warfare type situation that we're
all witnessing right now.
But make no mistake, this is history happening.
It's critical that you spread the articles from newswars.com, prisonplanet.com, infowars.com.
The reason it's hard to spread those links is because we are the resistance.
We are over the target.
We have the information.
Thank you all for making info wars a force to be reckoned with.
You are the info war.
You are the resistance.
Now back to Roger Stone, but don't forget Hillary Clinton from her own mouth said she
met secretly with Vladimir Putin and bonded with him and tried to get Bill Clinton in
secret meetings with him.
Now, she says Trump is a traitor, compromise and not trusted for meeting with him at a
public summit.
This is the truth and they hope the death of logic, but logic and memory is not dead
and we will prevail.
Thank you all.
Welcome back to the next hour of the Alex Jones show how fitting that clash between
Judge Jeanine Pirro who served with distinction as the district attorney of Westchester County,
an able advocate for women, for children, putting criminals behind bars in an epic clash
with Anna Navarro who according to the New York Times lied in her application to become
a state employee about going to law school.
Let's be very clear Anna Navarro cannot hold a candle to Jeanine Pirro when it comes to
accomplishments or her authority on law enforcement issues and the entirely bogus nature of the
mainstream media's continued false Russia narrative that Anna Navarro is just another
nattering Nabob of.
We're going to break down for you in the next hour this CYA move by the FBI releasing the
Carter Page material that they used as the underlying rationale for their illegal FISA
warrants.
Alex Jones is absolutely right.
The FISA warrants are the rosetta stone of understanding this entire Russian scandal.
You'll be right back to lay it out for you.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in
Fuller's life.
It take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price, it's stronger, it's the other equation in probiotics,
it knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months, it's got the preglonone that's the
precursor to all the natural hormones in your body, then it's got all the minerals and the
vitamins and amino acids so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do, you can also swallow
it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the
word.
Thank you so much for being part of the second American Revolution.
You deserve a deep rest while sleep with knockout by infowar's life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowar's life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Because of hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot
Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend Coffee's had a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need
in the morning.
Even, choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend Coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at infowarstore.com.
The real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow
InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost added.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm your host, Roger Stone.
It's very important to understand that a FISA warrant can only be issued against an American
citizen if they are actively involved in espionage for a foreign power against the United
States.
How ironic that it is the information regarding the misuse of FISA warrants that Deputy Attorney
General Rod Rosenstein has been stonewalling about.
How ironic that the government refuses to hand over in discovery in the Paul Manafort
trial any evidence regarding his being subject to a FISA warrant.
How ironic that the government has now essentially released a document which demonstrates that
their entire justification for a FISA warrant against Carter Page, a man who doesn't know
much about headgear, was based on their own phony dossier.
Wait a minute, FBI Director James Comey told us that the FISA warrant was based on a broad
mosaic of information.
The documents produced by the government today show that that is a lie.
In fact, extraordinarily, for a 400-page document today, almost 300 pages are completely and
totally redacted.
That means blacked out.
They're useless.
They tell us nothing.
And then you have media outlets like Vox trying to go out there with the establishment spin.
The FBI established surveillance of Carter Page because they believed the Russians were
seeking to recruit him.
No.
Carter Page was subject to a FISA warrant because the government created a false narrative
to make it appear that he was being recruited by the Russians, thus the use of FISA warrants
for political purposes.
That's why the current scandal is a much greater scandal than a watergate.
You see, in a watergate, private individuals affiliated with President Nixon's campaign
broke into the watergate complex of the Democratic National Committee and placed bugs, bugs that
didn't really work very well.
Also private citizens affiliated with the president's campaign infiltrated the campaigns
of two of President Nixon's opponents, Senator Hubert Humphrey and Senator George McGovern.
What we have here is far more egregious.
It is the willful use of the power and the authority and the extraordinary technological
capability of the government itself to hijack the 2016 election, to rig the election against
Donald Trump and, as Peter Stroke so eloquently put it, to create an insurance policy in case
Trump won.
Now we know why Peter Stroke went to the FISA judge in proper contact that is memorialized
in documents that were finally obtained by Devin Nunes, the hard-charging and courageous
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, that shows that Stroke was trying to make sure
that the phony FISA warrant request would be honored by the judge.
That judge, when he realized he'd been had, when he realized he'd been lied to, recused
himself and a new judge took his place.
Why we have not been told the entire story is because it underpins the fact that the
Obama Justice Department and the Obama FBI were caught in this stunning abuse of power.
That's why it's important to understand that the entire Russian collusion is an attempt
to distract from this underlying crime.
The entire fabricated narrative of Russian collusion is meant to distract from the fact
that Bill and Hillary are in bed with the Russians, that the Podesta brothers are profiting
from their business associations with the oligarchs around Vladimir Putin, that Bill
and Hillary have taken $145 million from the Russian energy company at the precise time
that they are seeking to obtain control of 20% of America's uranium reserves.
What I've called the largest single treasonous financial crime in American history.
And therefore, the phony Russophobia, oh look over there, Donald Trump's in bed with the
Russians, is meant as a distraction from the fact that the Obama administration was rigging
the election through the use of phony spying and FISA warrants, and it was Bill and Hillary
who were compromised.
That's what's so amazing about this video that we will show you in the next segment.
Hillary Clinton is saying that Donald Trump is compromised based on his very public meeting.
The irony of this smacks you in the face.
It's Hillary Clinton who is compromised, compromised in the uranium one deal, compromised
in the phony reset, and the Mueller investigation, which we're going to break down for you in
the next segment, is the further continuation of this phony Russian collusion meme.
A public distraction.
Now the indictment of 13 Russians, followed by the indictment of 17 Russians, intelligence
agencies, this is the kabuki theater of the DOJ, knowing that neither one of these cases
were supposed to go to trial, when the 13 Russians accused of hacking into social media
went to trial, suddenly Mr. Mueller was not in such a hurry to approve their crimes.
Mueller and Rosenstein clearly understand that the Russian spies are not showing up
for trial, and therefore their fake narrative that the DNC was hacked by Russia is today
a formal accusation, a charge in a very detailed and very well written indictment.
But in our system, an indictment is exactly that, it is not a conviction.
Why mainstream media talking heads like Chris Cuomo pretend they don't know that IT counter-intelligence
experts like Bill Biddy and Ray McGovern have pointed out the overwhelming forensic evidence
that tends to disprove this notion of Russian hacking, asking me last week when I appeared
on CNN, where did you see this?
Where did you hear this?
Chris, I read it in the Nation magazine, Biddy and McGovern are recognized experts in their
field, and the download times of the material that was allegedly hacked point not to a hacking,
but a download to a portable device where the material was spirited out the back door.
We're going to be taking your calls later in the program, also Michael Caputo, one
of the many victims of the Mueller witch hunt, will be joining us.
We will be right back.
But before I leave, I want to remind you, we need your help at the Info War Store to
fight the war of censorship that is being waged against us daily.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and
so much more.
Turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric
root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Buy Bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Support us by praying for us and spreading the word.
You are the Info War.
And now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this
country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield, infowarslife.com.
Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit
of this research a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine, in fact, current research
has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase which is an enzyme
that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
The great mystery is why the president has not spoken up for our country.
And we saw that most clearly in this recent meeting with Putin.
We don't know what was said in the room, we're just the two of them.
Putin is basically telling the world what was decided.
He has been giving press statements, he's calling in Russian ambassadors to other countries,
he's reaching out to other leaders and he's basically saying, well, here's what we decided
and we're hearing crickets from the White House.
There are some techs experts in Silicon Valley with whom I have met who say that maybe what
they'll do this next time is to really disrupt the actual election, shut down the servers
that you send results to, interfere with the operation of voting machines because still
too many of them are linked to the Internet.
That is so hypocritical that it is laughable.
Has Hillary Clinton forgotten that her boss Barack Obama was caught up on a hot mic telling
the Russians that after he was reelected in his last election, he would have much greater
flexibility in giving them whatever they wanted?
Does she really expect us to forget the fact that when the Russians rolled into Crimea,
she as Secretary of State and Barack Obama, her leader, did nothing?
Does she really expect us to forget about the cash she took in Uranium One or the failure
of her Russian reset or the fact that her minions, the Podesta brothers were literally
making millions in banking and gas in Uranium in Russia?
No, that is about as funny as you can get.
And then the question of the hacking of the elections is hysterical.
As we reported right here at Infowars last week, two British royals, billionaires, members
of the Queen's Privy Council, globalist associates of George Soros have gotten a complete
monopoly on the software that is used in 90% of the computerized voting machines in the
United States.
If there's any danger of hacking in the next election, it's not from the Russians, it's
from Hillary's compatriot and patron George Soros and his two business billionaire royals
who are protected by the Queen.
Now the Mueller investigation is of course the next extension of the phony Russian collusion
narrative that is designed to distract us from the real illegal activity, the use of
FISA warrants and the abuse of power involved in spying on Donald Trump's campaign.
It was revealed on Friday that my longtime friend, Kristen Davis, has been subpoenaed
by the special counsel.
Now Kristen Davis is maybe better known to many of you as the Manhattan Madame.
Many years ago she was convicted of running one of the largest and most successful call
girl rings in the world.
She went to prison for her illegal activity, but Governor Elliot Spitzer, who utilized
her call girl service, paid no real price and actually went on to host a show at CNN.
It shows you the disparity in our justice system in how men and women are treated.
Now the special counsel wants to question Kristen Davis who has worked on and off for
me for 10 years about Russian collusion and WikiLeaks collaboration.
Here's the problem.
Kristen Davis didn't work for me at all in 2015 and she didn't work for me in 2016.
Although I paid her in December of 2016, she didn't come to work for me until January.
That's because in all of 2015 she was incarcerated and in 2016 she was with child.
So she can have no knowledge of these activities, but now Kristen Davis, a single mother who's
in the perfectly legal cosmetology business, has to pay legal fees to go before the grand
jury and be questioned about matters that she knows nothing whatsoever about because
she wasn't even there.
She wasn't in my employ.
This kind of reminds me of the special counsel's efforts to subpoena a young man named Andrew
Miller.
Andrew Miller was an associate of mine for a number of years.
He's a very active libertarian.
He supported Gary Johnson for president in both 2012 and 2016.
He left me three years ago to go into the perfectly legal marijuana business with all
the requisite permits and approvals in the state of California.
In other words, Andrew Miller, who Mr. Mueller is seeking to drag in front of a grand jury,
was also not working for me during the 2016 election, although we weren't certainly in
touch and he did work on tiny projects.
But like Kristen Davis, he has no knowledge of Russian collusion or WikiLeaks collaboration.
This is a continuation of the witch hunt, yes, a fishing expedition.
Now Mr. Mueller's agents don't like it when we call his investigation exactly what it
is, a fraud.
They have come up with no evidence of collusion or conspiracy or coordination between the
Russian state and the Trump campaign.
He is fooled by the show trial of the first 13 Russians and nobody will believe that the
16 Russians more recently charged have been definitively declared guilty when they haven't.
It's a public relations move designed to bolster Mr. Mueller's sagging credibility based on
his failure to find any Russian collusion.
Now a single mother seeking to raise her son, my godson, Carter Stone Davis, is being harassed
and has to have shell out legal fees to be interrogated about affairs she knows nothing
about.
Her crime, she's a friend of Roger Stone's.
Joining us coming up is another patriot who has paid a heavy price for his advocacy of
the candidacy of Donald Trump and that is Michael Caputo, who will join us shortly.
And then we're going to be taking your calls to do that.
You call us at 877-789-2539, that's 877-789-2539.
Many info warriors want to understand why the FBI did this CYA move today, essentially
feeding off their own BS.
They create a fake document and then they cite the document they created as the rationale
to claim that Carter Page had been recruited by the Russians, a narrative that they themselves
created.
This is extraordinary, yet the MSNBCs, the Voxes, the Daily Beast, they continue to regurgitate
the same crap that the FBI was justified in their examination of the affairs of Mr.
Page.
When we come back, Michael Caputo joins us, but before we get there, I want to ask you
to go to the Infowars.com store now because we face the greatest challenge in our history.
It was info wars that broke the news that Tony Podesta would be given immunity in the
trial of Paul Manafort when Podesta did the same thing that Manafort is accused of, lobbying
for the Ukrainian political party without registering.
Mr. Mueller exposes the completely partisan nature of his entire probe in that he is given
Bill and Hillary's pal Podesta immunity for a crime that Manafort will now be prosecuted
for.
How convenient.
Who are the other four people that Mr. Mueller has asked the court to grant immunity to?
We'll be reporting on that story at Infowars as well.
So we'll be right back with Michael Caputo and he'll help us break down the news about
Carter Page and the FISA warrants.
Anyone who's studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified.
We have global, hardcore anti-human psychopaths in control of the big corporations.
They're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control, dumb humanity down ahead of
replacing us with machines and Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have
a human future.
They are launching a civil war against nation states right now, collapsing our borders and
my only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now.
We should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and launching
their anti-human plan because they crave to control people.
Those of us that are pro-human don't crave power, we already have the power but we have
to realize these scum are coming after us and we have to speak out and take action now.
Infowars is on the front line and so are you.
We are the resistance.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and
they're coming back against us so we need your support.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee beans, carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used
in big agricultural productions.
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what
you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend infused
with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now, your host, Roger Stone.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show.
We're going to give you an extraordinary example of Trump derangement syndrome.
Michael Caputo, a longtime friend of mine and a key soldier in the Trump Revolution, was
back in the newspapers this week because a Republican political strategist named Sherry
Jacobus actually advocated the violent rape of Caputo's children on Twitter.
The response of her employers at USA Today was not favorable.
Joining us now to break this vile story down is Michael Caputo.
Michael, welcome to the Alex Jones show.
I've seen a lot of things in politics, but this was among the most vile, distasteful,
incredible things I've ever seen.
Tell folks exactly what happened here.
Well, Sherry Jacobus was a columnist for the USA Today, and she was a Republican operative
about 10 years ago.
She tried to get a job with Donald Trump and was turned down and went crazy after that.
She started becoming very active on Twitter and social media, beating up on Donald Trump
and anyone near him.
And about a year ago, she decided that I was going to be one of those people she's beating
up on.
For that entire time, she picked on my family, my wife, sort of asking about telling me that
my children were going to hate me after I go to prison, et cetera, et cetera.
And at first, I engaged her to try and calm her down, and then I ignored her, but she
continued to do it even though I had blocked her.
And then when you and I revealed that the FBI had sent an informant at Henry Greenberg
to try to entrap us in 2016, she unblocked me because she had been blocking me for some
time and then started going after me.
Well, about late last week, Roger, I was going back and forth with a Florida Politico reporter
named Mark Caputo.
You know, he and I are not related, but you're friendly with him, and so am I.
And we were talking just simply about very general issues, and Sherry jumped in and started
going after me.
So I did what I have been doing ever since that he started.
I didn't want to engage with her anymore.
And I just tweeted back at her a hashtag, which I created for her, Bitter, Childless
and Alone, because she's bitter about Donald Trump not hiring her.
She's childless for reasons that became obvious in the last couple of days.
And she's very alone.
When I did that, she went nuts.
And she sent a tweet saying that when I'm in jail, my toddler daughters can actually
work for Epstein, the Clinton pal who was arrested for and found guilty of sexually
attacking an underage girl.
I mean, I couldn't even understand it, Roger.
It didn't make sense to me that any one of us all would advocate the pedophilia rate
of toddler children.
So let's put up that tweet again.
Let's just take a look at that to give you some idea of the debasement.
Are your daughters, these are children, ugly like you, she asks, or can Trump use them
at the Epstein parties?
Jeffrey Epstein, a convicted pedophile, friend of Bill and Hillary's major donor to the
Clinton Foundation.
So they can survive when you're broke bitter, I assume she means alone, and in prison for
treason.
I understand that the editors at USA Today did not look kindly upon this slur.
What happened then?
Well, according to USA Today, I notified them via Twitter, asked them if it was normal for
their columnists to advocate the rate of toddler girls, and then according to their account,
within an hour they called her up and fired her ugly ass.
And of course, we also know that she was a columnist over at the Hill.
She no longer writes there anymore either.
Sherry Jacobus' platform is just now Twitter, and that's it.
And you know what, Roger?
I can't understand it.
But Twitter doesn't have a problem with her advocating the rate of toddler girls.
I've notified Twitter, they wrote back and said, this doesn't violate our terms of service.
So she's saying-
How amusing.
On Twitter.
How amusing.
I'm banned for life at Twitter because I hurt Jake Tapper's feelings, but Sherry Jacobus
can advocate the abuse of children by a pedophile, and that's perfectly all right.
I think it lets people know exactly what's going on at Twitter.
It is part of this war of censorship that we're facing here at InfoWars every single
day.
You are held to a different standard.
They would like to take-
Well, I think, you know, Roger, Sherry did this with my girls advocating their rate.
About four or five times in different tweets actually alleged that I was raping them, and
those tweets are still up.
She's not deleted them because she's mentally ill, and Twitter doesn't seem to have a problem
with them.
So I'm kind of palms up about it, Roger, you know, I don't understand it at all.
So I know, Michael, that you have very successfully been raising money from the president's supporters
for a legal defense fund, and that you've been helping other supporters of the president,
who have been subject to the Mueller witch hunt, the phishing expedition that he is conducting.
What's your analysis of the subpoena to Kristen Davis and the subpoena to Andrew Miller, who
you certainly know?
Well, Roger, I always thought from the very beginning that they asked me in for an interview
with Mueller, and of course, the Senate and the House did as well, because I'm an old
friend of yours.
And I think that, you know, I was the first one of your friends to be called in.
Now there have been several, including Andrew and Kristen.
This is not an investigation of a crime, Roger.
This is an investigation of Donald Trump to try to find a crime.
And they're going to the people who are closest to him like you, Roger.
You've been advising him on politics for three decades and more, and they're basically phishing
around you, trying to grab everybody that you've ever intersected with, to try to get
somebody to identify some kind of crime or help them create one out of whole cloth that
doesn't exist.
That's what this is about.
I mean, Andrew Miller, as you know, Roger, he's a house painter in St. Louis.
You know, Kristen Davis is a cosmetologist in the New York City area.
Neither of these people had any access to Donald Trump.
Neither of them really were even interested in Donald Trump.
The only reason they're being interviewed is because the Mueller team is trying to get
you right dead center in the jackpot, Roger.
You know that.
And they're weaponizing the powers of the Department of Justice to do that.
Here's their problem.
They just cannot accept the fact that I was able to deduce what WikiLeaks was going to
do by a careful reading of the WikiLeaks Twitter feed and by carefully reading every
public interview that Julian Assange gave.
Stone must have known in advance.
He must have been collaborating with WikiLeaks and the Russians.
The problem is we can't find any evidence of it.
That's because there isn't any.
Yes, it was deduction.
Yes, it was accurate.
Yes, the WikiLeaks disclosure about Hillary Clinton were devastating.
They show what a venal, greedy, corrupt witch she is and what a fraud her presidential campaign
was.
They show her up to her knees in dirty tricks herself, helping orchestrate the anti-Trump
demonstrations at his rallies.
What better way to distract from the criminality and the conduct of the Clintons than to raise
a question about where WikiLeaks got the documents.
Sorry, leftists, I know you find this hard to believe.
There is no evidence that I knew in advance about the source, content, or the exact disclosure
timing of the WikiLeaks' disclosures regarding the DNC.
I don't know where they got the material, I never received it from them, I never passed
anything on to Donald Trump or the Trump campaign or Julian Assange or WikiLeaks.
This is a left-wing conspiracy theory that Mr. Mueller is chasing down every blind alley
he can find.
They will find no evidence that this happened because it didn't.
Michael Caputo, thanks for joining us here at the Alex Jones Show.
We give our regards to your family and your daughters.
I'm sorry they had to put up with this kind of vile abuse, but I know that you are standing
tall for the president.
Thanks, Roger, thanks a lot for having me on, and by the way, don't jaywalk because
that will end up in the Mueller investigation.
Thank you, Michael.
We'll be right back because one of the leading memes of last week is that Donald Trump doesn't
trust his own intelligence agencies.
He trusts Vladimir Putin over the word of his own intelligence agencies.
We're going to take a look at those intelligence agencies and take a look at their record regarding
veracity, and maybe you will see why the president is right not to believe them.
This
Like earth iodine crystals, this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and
overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Remember the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfowarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line, Super
Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1oz, 3.5oz, and 16oz bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only
available at InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
At the beginning of the program, Alex Jones laid out for you the fact that Hillary Clinton
in her own book revealed that she herself had gotten warm and fuzzy with Vladimir Putin
in a secret meeting in which he took her to a special room.
They bonded over stories about their families.
She asked them about the famous Russian Tigers.
Now, she does an about face and accuses Donald Trump of being in the pocket of Putin.
Hillary Clinton?
Hypocrisy?
Seriously?
Perhaps you haven't read the Clinton's War on Women.
This woman is an evil, greedy, foul mouth, short tempered, corrupt witch.
And why she has not been prosecuted?
Well, Donald Trump and his family are persecuted is an extraordinary example of the bias of
the mainstream media and the fact that the Trump Justice Department is still in the hands
of Obama-Clinton operatives.
We also have extraordinary news in that the Intercept reports that the Ecuadorian government
is about to pull the rug out from under valiant journalist Julian Assange.
The clamor on the American left to extradite and prosecute Assange is extraordinary.
At the same time, they're praising the Washington Post in a new movie for publishing classified
information regarding the Vietnam War when Julian Assange publishes classified information.
They want him prosecuted.
Even the Obama Justice Department determined that if Assange was prosecuted, you would
have to prosecute the Washington Post, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and
numerous other mainstream media outlets that have obtained classified information from
whistleblowers and published it.
That is what journalists do.
That is the epitome of a free press.
This can boomerang badly on the mainstream media and the intelligence agencies because
Assange himself, of course, knows where he got the DNC material.
He has offered publicly on numerous occasions to prove that he didn't get it from the Russians.
Amazingly, of course, the Justice Department and our CIA and FBI have never taken him up
on his offer.
Does anyone think that if he is extradited to the United States and put on trial, he
will not reveal for the world to see that the Russians probably didn't really hack
the DNC at all?
One person knows where he got the information, and that would be Julian Assange.
Many months ago, I wrote a piece for Info Wars in which I advocated a pardon for Julian
Assange.
I feel stronger about that now than I did then.
This crusading journalist has never, in the 11 years that he has been publishing, ever
been accused of publishing information that was not correct, authentic, and accurate.
Can the Washington Post or the New York Times say that?
We're going to put up a petition at Info Wars of Americans urging the president to pardon
this heroic journalist.
The idea that he will be extradited to the United States is an abomination.
He is a journalist, perhaps one of the most influential journalists in the country today.
And he is living in squalor.
He is in bad health.
He is in a virtual captive in a tiny closet that they call the Ecuadorian Embassy.
This must come to an end.
It is time for Julian Assange to be released, and I urge the president to consider a pardon.
When we come back, I'm going to review some of the extraordinary specials we have going
on at the InfoWars.com store.
Some of our very best products are available now at a very, very deep discount.
And my personal favorite, Brain Force Plus, is 50% off.
That's right, 50% off.
We need your help at the InfoWars store now to keep the fight for freedom moving forward.
This to be it, here is your last.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWars
Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and
clinically studied ingredients.
Good prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Add to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
So one of the great and incredible claims of last week is that Donald Trump should trust
his own intelligence agencies.
Let's take a look at that for a moment.
First of all, there's General James Clapper.
He lied under oath to the U.S. Senate about whether the United States had a metadata collection
program on American citizens in violation of the Constitution.
The releases by Edward Snowden and the Intercept proved that Clapper was lying.
Then there's Andrew McCabe.
He lied about being the leaks about the dossier to the media.
Then of course, there's James Comey.
The former FBI director.
He lied about the broad mosaic of evidence that justified the surveillance warrant on
Carter Page, among other things.
And then of course, there is Robert Mueller.
He lied about the cover-up of the fact that five of nine hijackers were reportedly training
at a Sarasota-based flight school and covered up the ties between the family that was harboring
the hijackers and the 9-11 plot.
And then of course, there's the biggest liar of them all, John Brennan.
Joining us on the war room tomorrow, John Guandolo, an FBI counterintelligence expert,
joins us on the question of John Brennan and whether or not he converted to radical Islam,
as I reported in several of my books, and whether John Brennan is indeed the centerpiece,
the mastermind of the bogus dossier, and whether he's lied to the Congress about it.
We know that John Brennan lied about spying on a U.S. Senate committee that was fulfilling
its oversight role in investigating the CIA's illegal use of torture.
John Brennan is a psychopath who continues to threaten the president of the United States
on Twitter.
Where do you see what Mueller has, Brennan tells us.
Wait a minute.
John Brennan is a private citizen.
How would he know what Mr. Mueller does and does not have?
This is the same John Brennan who supported the Communist Party candidate for president
in 1976, the same John Brennan who admitted in a lie detector test that he was a member
of the Communist Party, but who was nonetheless confirmed to be Barack Obama's CIA director.
We also know that Brennan, when stationed in Rida as the CIA's station chief, converted
to radical Islam.
John Guandolo of the FBI joins us tomorrow to flesh this out at the war room at five
o'clock Eastern.
Join Owen Schroyer and I as we prosecute the case against one of the most dangerous deep
state liars of them all, John Brennan.
So should the president, based on the records of Clapper, McCabe, Comey, Mueller, and Brennan
trust our intelligence services?
The last president who trusted them was John F. Kennedy, and we know how that worked out.
Now we're going to go to the phones.
I am, well, I'm a little at a loss.
I think Jesse of Pennsylvania is on the line.
Let's go to that call.
Roger, how's it going, man?
Love the show.
Love the product.
Thank you.
Thank you to all the bodies, but I wanted to ask you how fast and how soon this whole
rush of things in the book and Hillary, can we get that to Trump right at his fingertips
and get that out to the tweet?
And also how quick do you think, if any, justice in the future for all of it?
Well, Jesse, this is one of the confounding questions as to why the president has not
moved to terminate Rod Rosenstein, the man who admitted in the New York Times that he
was furious when Trump exposed the fact that he had written the memo explaining why and
how Comey should be fired as FBI director and who appointed Robert Mueller as the special
counsel, despite the fact that Mueller had interviewed with President Trump for the job
of FBI director as well as the job of Attorney General, thus he had a conflict and a motive
to oppose the president based on being passed over for those two jobs.
Mr. Rosenstein got his first job in government from Mr. Mueller.
This whole thing is a fetid mess.
Some around the president have told him that if he fires Mr. Rosenstein, Mr. Sessions,
Mr. Mueller, that he will be impeached.
On the contrary, if he does not fire them, they intend to charge the president with some
bogus process crime this October to give the Democrats something to run on.
They can't run on their positive program for the economy or on trade or on immigration
or any other issue because they have no programs.
Their entire party platform boils down to, we hate, Donald Trump.
He should understand soon that the Mueller investigation is a speeding bullet and it
is headed his way and that Mueller and his deep state allies will continue to press for
an interview with the president, which experts like Alan Dershowitz and Judge Andrew Napolitano
have correctly labeled a perjury trap.
Thank you very much for your call.
Let us hope the president will realize soon that these gentlemen need to be terminated
and then prosecuted.
Let's go back to the phones.
We've got about three minutes left.
Paul in Las Vegas, what's on your mind, Paul?
How are you doing, Roger?
I wanted to thank you personally for the brain force now that I've been taking it.
I have a patent.
I've really been working hard to better my life.
Your products are great.
I wanted to thank Alex and everybody for all you guys do around here as well.
I think with the Mueller situation, what we've got going on is not only a witch hunt, but
when you say the leftovers, they're all corrupt and they know that they're going to be going
down with the ship.
I think that's why they're all fighting against people like you and the former guest.
They're going after people like that because you guys have the goods on them, if you will,
it's from the timeline situation and the one time when you were talking, you was explaining
about the WikiLeaks thing.
You definitely predicted that.
I remember, I was listening to the show, the very show where you said the next shoe to
drop will be the pedestrian's time in the barrel, whatever.
You predicted everything because you were doing your homework.
These people shouldn't be doing anything to you but listening to what you have to say
about all the crimes of these people.
Chronically, Julian Assange himself has said, Roger Stone never said or tweeted anything
that we at WikiLeaks hadn't already published or announced ourselves.
All one had to do was pay attention.
So it is extraordinary that this witch hunt continues, but I must tell you, the cost to
me and my family is extraordinary.
You see, if they come up empty-handed on Russian collusion, if they can find no collaboration
with WikiLeaks, which they won't, they have to bastardize my now iconic tweet regarding
John Podesta because I said the Podesta's time in the barrel, Podesta's, apostrophe S, possessive,
two brothers, John and Tony, whose extensive Russian business dealings had been reported
in the Panama Papers in April of 2016.
You see, I didn't predict or foreshadow that Podesta's emails would be published by WikiLeaks.
I had no idea that that was going to happen.
I never said anything whatsoever about his emails.
This is more of the Trump derangement syndrome of the mainstream media and the far left who
just can't accept the fact that Hillary Clinton got walloped by Donald Trump in one of the
most improbable, come-from-behind victories in American history.
Thank you so much for your call.
On the other side, we're going to go back to the phones.
That number again, if I may, 877-789-2539, I'm on the Alex Jones show.
I'll be taking your questions.
Give us a call.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high-quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin
mineral fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Years ago, Infowars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better
product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco
bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Infowars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms.
If pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Infowars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact
filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing
220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfowarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House filtration system today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
And now, the tip of the spear, leading the fight to take back the nation.
This is Roger Stone.
Welcome back to the War Room.
I'm Roger Stone, sitting in for Alex Jones.
Tomorrow, Owen Schroyer and I will bring you a special report on U.S. Senator Elizabeth
Warren and her efforts to cozy up to Indian gaming interests in an effort to bolster her
phony claim of being a Native American.
That full expose tomorrow on the War Room, not to mention the violent attack today by
Warren supporters against one of Elizabeth Warren's leading Republican opponents.
We'll break it all down for you tomorrow on the War Room.
That's four o'clock Central, five o'clock Eastern.
We are going to go back to the phones, but my lawyers and my wife would be very upset
if I didn't mention to you that the witch hunt that I have been subjected to, the lawsuits
by an Obama-blessed group based in Washington, the lawsuit against me by the Democratic National
Committee, sore loser lawsuits, the investigation of the House Intelligence Committee, the investigation
of the Senate Intelligence Committee, the investigation of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and the investigation
of Special Counsel Robert Mueller are costing me hundreds of thousands of dollars and literally
threaten to destroy my family and bankrupt me.
You'll find stories online that say Roger Stone is worth $20 million.
That is false.
Those are probably put online by David Brock and the folks at Media Matters to discourage
you from giving me the vital help I need.
Please take a moment and go to StoneDefenseFund.com and help me fight this deep state takedown effort,
this effort to smear me, accusing me falsely of Russian collusion, WikiLeaks collaboration,
or some nonsense regarding the criminal John Podesta's emails.
This is nothing less than an effort to punish me for the simple crime of supporting Donald
Trump for president.
I need your help.
I do not exaggerate the cost.
Before I am finished fighting the deep state attempts to destroy me, I will be millions
of dollars in debt.
Please take a moment to go to StoneDefenseFund.com and while you're at it, don't forget that
Alex Jones and the folks at InfoWars are fighting essentially the same war.
That's right, bogus lawsuits, harassment lawsuits with no basis in fact or reality, but designed
to generate the most vicious negative headlines possible and then be used as an underlying
rationale to censor InfoWars off of YouTube, off of Facebook, off of Twitter, off of television,
off of radio.
You see, the left cannot win a battle of ideas.
The left cannot win a debate regarding the issues.
And now their answer is the heavy-handed play of censorship.
Alex Jones is going to have to spend millions of dollars in the courts fighting these efforts
to shut InfoWars down.
Do Alex Jones and I exaggerate the dangers?
Not in the slightest.
The Mueller investigation has the deep pockets of the taxpayers.
He's just brought on a whole new platoon of left-wing Democrat prosecutors spending
millions more and still hasn't produced an iota of evidence of Russian collusion with
the Trump campaign.
At best, he has exposed some ham-handed Russian meddling that appears to have had no effect
in our election.
So please take a moment to go to the InfoWars.com site.
When you get there, there's a special place to go where you can make a contribution.
If you're not in the market for one of our terrific nutraceuticals, now at bargain-basement
prices, if you're not going there to buy my book, Stone's Rules, or my other book, The
Making of the President 2016, well, you can give a generous contribution of $25, $50, $100,
$500.
Yes, some InfoWarriors have given as much as $1,000.
Why?
Because they know we are the tip of the spear.
Because they know we are the resistance.
Because they know that Alex Jones is controlled by no multinational corporate advertiser.
We answer only to you.
InfoWars is completely listener and viewer-financed.
We don't have a right-wing George Soros writing huge checks to underwrite the activities of
our investigative journalism.
And therefore, we need you to look at these terrific specials, whether it is knockout,
silver bullet, super male vitality, so many of these products at 50% off.
How does Alex Jones do this?
I often think these products are loss leaders.
Here's the secret.
He knows that if you try these products, there's an overwhelming possibility, likelihood, that
you will be satisfied, and then you will go to reorder through our auto-ship program.
That keeps the war for freedom and the First Amendment well-funded.
That's how he can afford these deep discounts.
Please go to the InfoWars store now and grab your copy of Stone's Rules.
When I come back, I'll tell you how you can get your copy of my newest book, A Road Manual
for Victory, personally autographed and mailed back to you, an offer that I have set up for
InfoWarriors only.
If you purchase the book now at InfoWars and you mail it to me with your receipt demonstrating
that that's where you bought it, I will sign it and return it to you at my own expense.
Again, though, this is only for people who buy the book at the InfoWars.com store.
You can help me, you can help the Stone family, you can help InfoWars, and you can read my
personal analysis of maxims and guidelines and rules that I have learned in a successful
career of 40 years in the public arena.
I'm very proud of this book.
It's kind of like Machiavelli's The Prince or Sun Tzu's The Art of War.
Yet, you'll find handy information that goes well beyond politics about food, fashion, automobiles,
and a myriad of subjects that cover the many things I have learned in 40 years working
for three American presidents.
I'm Roger Stone.
You're at the Alex Jones Show.
We're going to come back and take more of your calls.
That number, 877-789-2539.
We haven't gotten in as many calls as I had hoped, so we're going to try to get you back
into the queue.
Please call in now with your call for me on any topic at all, and I will be pleased to
let you know the inside story on Washington and the deep state takedown attempt against
our president.
I'm Roger Stone.
I'll be right back.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
It's InfoWarsLife.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Glovelist.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
The Real Red Pill Plus ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the powerhouse Pregnantum product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantum base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars
favorite products.
Now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost at it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
need in the morning. You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune
support blend, infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support
the show while enhancing your morning routine at InfowarsStore.com.
This is Bernie Sanders and there's a lot of corruption in this country. And if you want
to hear about corruption, then you'll listen to Roger Stone on Infowars. Does he tell the
truth?
All right, a great track there by the Rolling Stones, a story I saw on Carol written by
the great Chuck Berry and of course kind words of my friend, Senator Bernie Sanders. Clearly
that was an impressionist. I think you probably figured that out.
So we're going to go back to the phones because I know a lot of Info Warriors have questions.
The news coming out of Washington, the assault on the president because he has put peace
ahead of politics has left a lot of Info Warriors heads spinning because the viciousness of
the mainstream media and the hypocrisy of those who refuse to acknowledge that from
a policy point of view, Donald Trump's administration has been much tougher on the Russians than
Barack Obama ever was. The sanctions sting. That's why Putin would like to have them removed.
The idea that the president somehow capitulated to Putin is nonsense that is meant to continue
to foster their phony Russian collusion narrative. Let's go to the phones. Chris, in Virginia,
you're on the line with the Alex Jones show. What's on your mind?
Hey, Roger, what's going on? When I see you on today and I see your name in the news this
past week, you have me thinking, why is the state targeting Roger Stone again? Because
you were supposed to be dead when they tried to attack. It was going to make that booster
for 2.0 things sick. But by the grace of God, you know, you're still with us. But I
think so. That made somebody in the state very angry. So that's why they hit you with
all these bogus lawsuits and stuff. But it has to be more than just because you support
the president. What else do you think that you could have done or?
Well, I think this is payback for the fact that I wrote the definitive opposition dump
on Bill and Hillary Clinton, the Clinton's war on women. I outlined in great detail the
fact that Bill Clinton has sexually assaulted or raped multiple women and that Hillary Clinton
was the cleanup officer, that it was Hillary Clinton who ran the nasty lawyers and the
heavy handed private detectives in an effort to silence those women. I also worked with
others, including the Joe Gilbert, the brilliant Hollywood documentary producer, to introduce
America to Danny Williams. Danny Williams is indeed the son of Bill Clinton, banished
from Bill Clinton's life by Hillary Clinton. 38 million Americans saw the Danny Williams
story banished is the name of the documentary, which debuted right here at Info Wars. So
yes, I am a target of the deep state. This is payback for the fact that I not only supported
Donald Trump, but I stripped away the fraudulent narrative that Hillary Clinton was an advocate
for women when in fact she was a terrorizer of women and many African Americans learned
about Hillary Clinton's abuse of Danny Williams. Danny Williams is a fine young man. He works
two jobs to support his five children, a job by day and a job at night. I think he works
in a meat packing plant by day and a 7-Eleven at night. His father is worth $300 million.
I have exposed the truth about Danny Williams and that is one of the many reasons why Bill
and Hillary have insisted that their longtime hitman Robert Mueller take me down. But he
has no evidence of Russian collusion, no evidence of WikiLeaks collaboration and therefore the
question is an obvious one. Will they manufacture some other offense, something that has nothing
to do with the 2016 election, either to silence me and get me off of Info Wars where I join
Alex Jones as the leading critic of the Mueller investigation, better known as a witch hunt,
a fishing expedition, or is it because they want to pressure me to testify against the
president? I've known Donald Trump for 39 years. If they think that they can squeeze
me to testify against him and to bear false witness against him on the issue of Russian
collusion, they will be sadly disappointed. But to fight them, I need all of you and all
of my supporters and friends to go to StoneDefenseFund.com, as I said earlier. Thank you so much
for your call. I think that explains why I have been targeted.
Let's go back to the phones. Pastor Sam in New Mexico, or pardon me, in Mexico joins
us now at the Info Wars hotline, right here at the Alex Jones show. Pastor Sam?
I'd like to thank you for bringing me from brass sailor buttons, Stone's Rule number
23, the blazer is the foundation of the gentleman's wardrobe. I've gone to strictly for ferio
Rubio Roster style buttons on your recommendation and made it part of my personal style. And
I'm very liberated. You've helped me a great deal.
Well, for those who don't know, pro ferio Rubirosa was one of the great playboys of
the 1940s and 50s. And he was known as one of the best dressed men in the world. A well
cut, well made navy blue blazer in single or double breasted in three button or two
is a fundamental for any young gentleman's wardrobe, a very key element of Stone's rules.
So Pastor Sam, what's on your mind? I wanted to ask you what your thoughts
are on the fact that Donald Trump has finally put the Federal Reserve in the crosshairs.
It appears that he started with an offhanded comment as far as not being thrilled about
the raising of interest rates. But now it comes out and CNBC today published on Inco
Wars that he's making major steps to appoint a number of directors to the Federal Reserve
that could change the whole monetary policy of that entity.
Yeah, you know, I was very pleased as someone who is a long time admirer of Ron Paul, the
last vote I cast as a Republican before I switched briefly to the Libertarian Party
was for Ron Paul in the Florida Republican presidential primary. Then when Donald Trump
staged his hostile takeover of the GOP, I switched back to the party of my ancestors.
But as an admirer of Ron Paul and an admirer of Rand Paul and an aficionado of their very
apt criticism of the Federal Reserve, I was very pleased by the president's comments.
He clearly understands the manipulation of the economy. We're cruising along at 4% economic
growth. Almost 3.4 million jobs have been created since Donald Trump became president.
Donald Trump is a businessman who understands the Fed intimately and has had the courage,
unlike other presidents, to criticize them when they try to manipulate our money. Great
question, Pastor Sam. Thanks for calling in. We've got about a minute to go. That's just
enough time to remind you that we have some incredible specials going on at the Infowars.com
store. Some of our very best products, Supermail Vitality, Survival Shield X2, The Real Pill,
Knockout, these are among our most popular and effective products and they are now all
at 50% off. Please help us in the war for freedom. As Alex Jones says, it's a 360-degree
win. You win, we win, and America wins when you shop at the Infowars.com store.
Anyone who's studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified. We have global
hardcore anti-human psychopaths in control of the big corporations. They're trying to
wreck free market and consolidate total control dumb humanity down ahead of replacing us with
machines. And Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a human future. They
are launching a civil war against nation states right now, collapsing our borders. And my
only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now. Everybody
should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and launching
their anti-human plan because they crave to control people. Those of us that are pro-human
don't crave power, we already have the power, but we have to realize these scum are coming
after us and we have to speak out and take action now. Infowars is on the front line
and so are you. We are the resistance.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and
allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research
and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winner's Son vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin
D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting. Visit infowars.com
today or call 888-253-3139.
Infowars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary, new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable
tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by
blocking the activity of tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory
responses in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
The scientists at Infowars Life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well-known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from
black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility,
mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more. Regular turmeric root from the
store only contains one to five percent of actin ingredients. But our turmeric root extract
contains over ninety-five percent of the actin ingredients. Bodies combines turmeric with
organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for
full body support. Try Bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Hi, fellow Americans. Let me make this perfectly clear. You're listening to Roger Stone on
Infowars. Do you worry that, is it time for the Fed
to be doing what it's doing? Just to get a policy question, should they be raising rates
on the trajectory that is indicated right now? I put a very good man in the Fed. I don't
necessarily agree with it because he's raising interest rates. I'm not saying that I agree
with it and I don't necessarily agree with it. I must tell you, I don't. I'm not thrilled
because we go up and every time you go up, they want to raise rates again. I am not happy
about it, but at the same time, I'm letting them do what they feel is best.
That's the bite I was looking for. Donald Trump, businessman, Donald Trump, entrepreneur,
Donald Trump, job creator, understands the vital role that interest rates play in the
resurgence of the American economy. They told us under Barack Obama that 4% economic growth
was structurally impossible, and the average economic growth, that is, the GDP, under Barack
Obama was about a point and a half. Let me point out that the President's corporate
and personal tax cuts have still not had sufficient time to get the complete traction
that I think they will ultimately gain to turbocharge this economy, and that is why the
left is so hysterical. Because as the economy grows, the President's political support in
the country grows and is galvanized, making their efforts to void the 2016 election on
the basis of some fraudulent claim of Russian collusion harder and harder to pull off.
So, let's go back to the phones now. That number, for those of you who still want to
get a call in, 877-789-2539. That's the Info Wars Hotline, direct to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm your host, Roger Stone, and we're going to go to Scott in Missouri. Scott, what's
on your mind?
Hello.
Scott, go ahead.
Yes, sir. Thank you, Roger. I was curious because I was thinking about the Nexium scandal
from the Broke few months ago. I know your name was mentioned in various circles. I had
a quick observation and question about it because it does appear that there's one problem
with the Nexium narrative, but it does appear to coincide with something that was documented
on Info Wars in the spring of 2008, and that is the Blackmail Honeypot against then-New
York Governor Elliot Spitzer, which is this article written by former Info Wars, of course,
while I, Wayne Madsen, mentioned your name as perhaps being involved with. I wondered
what is your defense for that? You say that you were simply the whistleblower of Nexium,
but this would coincide around a Honeypot operation that your name has been said to
be implicated with.
I'm delighted that you asked this question. I think these are very separate scandals.
As I think Frank Parlotto, the crusading journalist and art voice in Buffalo, who is
more responsible than anyone breathing for exposing the Nexium scandal, has reported,
I never saw any evidence that this was any kind of sex call, but nonetheless, I terminated
my relations with them and became a source for Parlotto. In the question of Elliot Spitzer,
does Mr. Madsen claim that Governor Spitzer was not patronizing prostitutes, was not using
multiple call girl rings at the same time that he was prosecuting others for patronizing
prostitutes?
His issue, since I'm a libertarian, I think prostitution by adults, of course, should
be legal. I think his crime was hypocrisy. But the idea that I participated in any kind
of sex cult with Nexium, no, I saw the thing as a financial fraud. And therefore, after
working for them for about two months and learning that they didn't understand how our
system of government worked, and seeing all these rich little girls signing over their
trust funds to Keith Ranieri and his hench people, I blew the whistle on Nexium. Thank
you so much for your call.
Let's go back to the phones. We have about five minutes left. Let's see, how about Carlos
in Canada? Carlos, are you still with us?
Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Stone. I just wanted to draw attention to the Benghazi attack
that has been covered up quite effectively, but in fact is principle and should be key
in any attempts by Hillary Clinton to be a candidate for president. The evidence since
the Benghazi attack now has shown an indisputable case at the CIA for the time shipping arms
and missiles from the US control facilities from Libya towards Syria. And the cover up
of this, the transaction can go well. But as it turns out, four Americans died under
the Secretariat of State, Hillary Clinton efforts. In particular, Ambassador Christopher
Stevens, who had been doing much of the dirty work, doing, pushing the drug business, pushing
the guns, and pushing even children, and I repeat children, in this sorted affair, was
actually betrayed and left to die, killed by a group that was run by the Secretary of
State Administration as a cover up because things were going not well. This is something
that I believe has been covered up terribly. And the individuals who are now attacking
the president should be aware of the fact that Americans need to know the truth of what
really happened in Benghazi. She alone set up Ambassador Stevens by denying protection
and she transmitted by email from her private server by herself, the location where the
ambassador was, and the evidence of his travel plans. There were a thousand emails between
Hillary Clinton and General Petraeus that were not turned over to the original FBI investigation.
Americans should know what were in those thousand emails. And as you know, General Petraeus,
who would have been forced to testify and not take the fifth, was subsequently removed
as general because he had an affair with someone. So all I have to say is that I think it's
time for Americans to look into the Benghazi attack and to look for justice to those patriots
who died that evening so undeservedly. Well, that was an excellent analysis of exactly
what happened. The only thing I would have to add is the lie that the uprising at our
facility in Benghazi was caused by an anti-Islamic video that showed in Turkey was fabricated
by Sidney Blumenthal, also known as Sid Vicious, the henchman for Hillary Clinton. He thinks
he's Ted Sorensen. He's actually Al Capone. This is one of the Clinton's key dirty tricksters,
but we now know that entire narrative is a lie. Yes, you're absolutely right. I thank
you, Carlos. It is time for justice and truth for those brave Americans who were killed
in Benghazi. Hillary Clinton has even more blood on her hands, but then that is not
a surprise to us. I thank you for joining us today on the Alex Jones show. It has been
my privilege to dive into the host's chair. I hope we were able to explain to you why
the illegal unconstitutional FISA warrants are the Rosetta Stone, the key thing to understand
about the Obama effort to hijack the last American election, and why the Russian collusion
investigation by Robert Mueller and Democrats in the Congress is meant to distract you from
that scandal, a scandal that makes Watergate look like, well, a second rate burglary. This
has been the Alex Jones show. One more time, you can get your copy of Stone's Rules, my
terrific new book, at the Infowars.com store, and while you're there, take advantage of
some of the extraordinary specials on our most popular products. My personal favorite,
Brain Force Plus, but also Silver Bullet, the finest collidal silver you can find on
the market today, known for centuries as an antiviral and antibacterial. Or look at our
First Amendment-oriented T-shirts. We need your support, as never before, to push back
against the globalists and those who would censor Infowars entirely and remove us from
our position as the tip of the spear and the leader of the resistance. God bless you, God
bless America, victory or death. Patrick, in the great nation of Australia, you're on
the air worldwide. Thanks for
coming.
I saw up with you, the crew, and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
Supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWord.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us
with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles,
to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
