You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I was told on air and off air by the second person to walk on the moon, Buzz Aldrin, that
there was an obelisk on the lone moon of Mars, indeed like 2001 Space Odyssey, sending
out a signal towards Saturn, not Jupiter.
And he then went on further on air and also off air when I met with him personally once
and also had a phone call with him until people clamped down on him because his secretary
was a big listener, that there were big underground lakes, not just frozen water on Mars with
its southern and northern ice caps and that there was also underground water on the moon.
And I talked about this before it broke.
Buzz Aldrin told me when I was out in LA, this is like 10 years ago now.
He said, yeah, in about a year, they're going to launch an Indian probe, they're going to
launch an Indian probe into the surface, like a meteorite of the moon, to then eject up
the water particular and prove the theory that there are underground lakes.
Now he's telling me all this.
And then I'm walking to an airport almost a year later and there's USA Today, Indian
probe crashed in, discovers underground lake.
I mean, what does NASA know that we haven't been told?
That's the whole point is we have a breakaway civilization here.
We have a whole system of 30, 40, 50 year advanced technologies, that's confirmed.
We're not being made privy to what's really going on, life extension, you name it.
I want access to that.
I want my wife to have that.
I want you to have that.
I want my children to have that.
But the people at Alphabet and Google and Facebook and Twitter, they're on power trips.
They think the public's profane and ignorant and stupid and we don't deserve access to
all that.
Well, you know, our ancestors developed the technology, they paid the taxes, we built
military industrial complex and the scientific technological complex that Eisenhower talked
about.
He always talked about the military part of the speech, he said the technological elite
that controls it.
It's a 21 minute farewell address, 1961, two nights before Kennedy got sworn in and he
was very nervous when it was happening.
Somebody dropped a book or something, there's a bang and you see him jump.
Well, he thought he was going to get killed, even talking about it and he said, all the
money, all the ideas are being siphoned off behind this wall and we need to beware of
this and he's the guy that, you know, helped head up to a great extent the Manhattan Project.
So there's a whole bunch of private systems and public systems bigger than the Manhattan
Project by orders of magnitude and this broadcast really used to be about exposing that.
Not all the phony stuff and unproven things, but what we know and I know for a fact, Trump
is still trying to get access to that and all these programs, they're trying to keep
it walled off from him and keep him in the dark.
That's why there's a governmental mutiny going on and that's why the revoking of these security
clearances they're moving towards is very, very important with Hillary being chief amongst
him.
He hasn't announced that yet, but that's in the works, Clapper, Brennan, Comey and others
because this is the new royalty, these people hiding behind these ultra-secret security
clearances that, I mean, top secrets low, low and you've got all these other levels
that most people don't even know about, you know, into these higher areas of really just
break away civilizations and mad scientist type run situations.
So I'm on record saying there's underground lakes that aren't frozen on Mars, according
to our sources.
I'm on record saying that they would discover underground lakes on the moon with an Indian
probe.
I did break that before anybody else did and I'm just, you get next year's news today.
You get next decade's news today here, but only because I have these sources who have
been proven to be very, very accurate, but then they get onto the sources and they clam
up.
All right, we'll be right back with just so much huge news.
It's a true plethora of very special transmission on this Wednesday, 25th of July, 2018 global
broadcast.
Please spread the word.
We are hated by the enemy.
Furnish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars
Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Spread to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's Wednesday, the 25th day of July 2018.
They have discovered massive underground lakes on Mars, just as Plato wrote 2300 years
ago.
They discovered big underground lakes on the moon.
What does that all mean?
It's coming up in just a moment.
The year is 1995, and Infowars launches the last of America's counter-globalist probes.
In a freak mishap, Infowars.com and Alex Jones are blown out of their trajectory into an
orbit which freezes his life support systems and returns Alex Jones to Earth 25 years later.
Transdimensionally, over the space time continuum, they're full space.
Their people are extremely lazy, the social engineers are there laughing.
What we envisioned 100 years ago, 20 years ago, is now re-opening.
While the society unravels, men run around totally frantic, not knowing how to be men,
and women run around frantic, not knowing how to be women, and they don't understand
that it's an animating contest of life and that it's fulfilling to be informed.
It's fulfilling to be involved.
It's fulfilling.
You are listening to an Infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Staying deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide its
Alex Jones.
All right, let me do this in this first main segment of the broadcast.
Let me just tell you what we've got on the plate here, just to give you an idea of how
insane things have gotten, good things are happening, bad things are happening, crazy
things are happening, amazing things are happening.
Of underground lake found on Mars, raising possibility of life, it is a giant salt sea,
according to the spectrometers from the ground penetrating radar.
Now, of course, NASA knew about this 25 years ago, according to my sources, and we've also
broke that before, and the lakes under the lunar surface as well.
We're going to be going over all of that today.
Also, Tucker Carlson has come out with a former Special Operations Colonel who heads up a
major private intelligence group and said they're getting basically a chatter and concerns
that there could be a false flag stage to maneuver President Trump into an all-out war
with Iran to actually undermine the U.S. recovery and let the Chikoms outflank us while we're
distracted with that situation.
As much as I'd like to see the moolas removed, that's absolutely true, so that's coming
up.
You can't make this up.
Italian Bishop, I would turn all churches into mosques.
Meanwhile, a member of parliament in the U.K. that's just been critical of the giant child
kidnapping rings that are confirmed, run by the Islamists, they have massive security
now as the gangs, they say Asian gangs, no, it's Islamist gangs.
The rule is never say Muslims.
They are being protected and allowed to do that.
She has to have security now because they're death-threatening her, and that leads us to
this little tidbit that I'll cover at the bottom of the hour.
YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, all the big hearings in Congress about shutting in fours off last
week.
If Drudge Report wouldn't have linked to our actual video three months ago when they said
that I said nobody died at Parkland and the video was banned by YouTube to take our channel
down, actually said that the police stood down, which was later confirmed.
We just had eyewitnesses, so they said a lot about what we were saying to both censor us
and not let us expose that the police stood down, which again is now confirmed.
We got five community guideline strikes, and so if people say, well, wait three strikes
and you're gone.
Well, that's right.
We're in the process of appealing, and then the site with billions of views will be gone
if they don't, and it's all up to George Soros and the Media Matters folks that literally
fund the groups that go out and false flag everything, where they flag, some of the type
of false flag, where they put a flag claiming you violate community standards for violence,
and the video is Trump's speech about the snake, and then we show people climbing over
fences and people kicking women down steps and things like that.
This is stuff that's shown on the news.
We are news.
This would be shown on CBS during the family hour.
In fact, much of what we show has been on mainstream news, and it comes from television,
and it shows the illegal alien Islamists robbing people's vehicles, pulling people out of their
18 wheelers, hitting people over the head with bike locks, throwing their own children
on railroad tracks.
It doesn't show the baby being run over.
This has all been on the news, and so because it's so powerful, all five videos are intro'd
with the snake footage that we're showing right now, and of course some would argue,
well, don't show it again.
They'll totally ban you.
That's why we're getting ready to court cases and the rest of it, is because we're the
test case, folks.
Once we're banned, everybody's banned.
We don't show the ISIS al-Qaeda trained seven-year-old shooting people in the back of the head,
we just, like ABC does, we just show them training to do it.
We don't actually show any blood, any gore.
It's very sanitized, but we do show the basics of what you would see during the family hour.
Some of the stuff we don't want to show, YouTube left it up for seven years of a showtime
special where they simulate raping newborn babies.
Now, YouTube left that up.
We blurred the man's rear end and other things and the baby's simulated rape.
I expect they'll probably take that video down and say it violated standards.
See, they can show the raping of the baby simulated and show the man's big, airy butt.
We blur it out.
We will be banned.
It doesn't matter, the juries will all see it.
We've got the cases.
We've got the internal.
Google employees admitting they're censoring us, the racketeering, all of it.
And the left goes, oh, my gosh, he's attacking YouTube and Zuckerberg at Facebook.
They've been leaving Jones up.
You know, why is he saying they're censoring because they've already got a shadow band.
So they play along what you're not doing so we don't get the court cases.
And so it doesn't become blaringly obvious to all of you, but we're dead already on
those platforms.
That's why M4Wars.com on our own apps and M4Wars.com, the video app that's free, M4Wars official
are surging because folks know they have to come to newswords.com, M4Wars.com, but I digress
that's coming up.
This is the banning just like in Europe of criticizing Islam and all the videos are prefaced
with the snake intro that's nothing you wouldn't see on Fox News that does show gays being thrown
off buildings, but I mean, you know, it's shot from 400 yards away and you see guys
led up and thrown off.
There's no blood, but they're killing real people.
You know, why can't you show that at three o'clock in the afternoon, folks getting thrown
off buildings and it's a cartoon or six o'clock on local news.
So I show it, I'm censored because I'm saying it's bad and I'm saying it's Islamic.
And remember last year when the Aulah Akbar guy attacked people in New York with a truck
and say he did it for Aulah and that afternoon they were having hearings on censoring the
conservatives and Congressman Quigley was like, I noticed M4Wars was number one with their
fake news that it was Islamic attack and the mayor was warned about it, which was all true.
We had links to where he'd warned him that this was coming and Twitter, Facebook and
Google, they all go, we took it down at lunch, sir.
And he goes, well, I want to take, I don't want to ever get to number one.
They go, sir, the algorithm goes in in two months.
They will be censored a couple months later, it hit.
So they've given us an arrogant blueprint of the whole plan.
So here's the deal.
I'm going to cover it more when we come back.
I only got into a few of the articles.
There's literally hundreds of them, they're all insane.
Sharia compliant, YouTube removes videos criticizing Islamic immigration.
M4Wars community strike, it's actually five of them, as war on free speech continues.
And then we went and reviewed the videos, we're posting them on our own server.
Last time they took down two videos a lot about us, the videos got 14 million views
in three days because Drudge linked to them.
We're going to add these to Paul Watson's article as soon as they're up, they're being
uploaded now, the raw files that they say are hateful and evil and violent.
They could have put age restriction on it.
They didn't do age restriction.
They don't put age restriction on YouTube hosts who officially work for YouTube, making
fun of people that have committed suicide and showing their dead bodies.
And weird torture porn of torturing little kitty cats, which should be censored.
It's obscene.
Us, showing you the giant Islamist waves, you can't see that.
So the article is up on M4Wars.com and I'm asking Drudge and everybody else, I'm shooting
up the bat signal here, I need help because they're just trying to wear us out and hope
people just can't use the censorship.
This is the biggest yet, the banning of criticizing radical Islam.
If you or anyone you love has been diagnosed with lung cancer, asbestosis or mesothelioma,
your diagnosis may be the result of job related exposure to asbestos and you may be entitled
to compensation.
Your 30 billion entrusts have been set aside for individuals who have been affected by
asbestos exposure.
How do you protect your rights and get the compensation you deserve?
Call Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG.
Capital Legal Group is one of the nation's resources for settlement of lung cancer in
mesothelioma cases.
Law firms have successfully recovered over $2.7 billion for their clients in all 50 states
and claims have been paid in as little as 60 days.
If you or a family member were diagnosed with lung cancer asbestosis or mesothelioma, call
Capital Legal Group now at 800-400-LUNG.
We'll open a no cost case review on your behalf.
A history of tobacco use or cigarette smoking will not disqualify your case.
Visit 800-400-LUNG.com or call 800-400-LUNG.
Call 800-400-5864 now.
That's 800-400-LUNG.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-paid patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon, no refrigeration required.
Your proprietary value-added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest,
thickest, center-cut, fully-cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve, savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake-up America Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's
finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you
need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at InfowarsStore.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Infowars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The ProPure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants
from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfowarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the ProPure
Whole House Filtration System today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
I've absolutely got to be very judicious in the next two segments because I've got to
get the Tucker Carlson with the top intelligence analyst, very respected, saying they believe
the globalists and the neocons along the leftists are going to try to launch a Gulf of Tonka
and get us into a war with Iran.
I've agreed that something there in the Persian Gulf is what will probably trigger it.
That's coming up next segment, a nuclear watchdog warns of radioactive leak at South Carolina
fuel factory.
That's out of RT.
There's some local news covering it but nothing national, you've got to go to the Russians
to get it.
That's why British news, Russian news, Japanese news, that doesn't mean they're perfect.
It means they'll give perspectives we're not getting, like no news in the U.S. on Nicaragua
except for CBS and just the total martial law hell, thousands being killed every few
days.
Venezuela has thousands dying a week now, it's just total insanity.
That's all coming up.
It's so huge though.
And I don't want to make the broadcast about us because it's about you but we're the test
case.
Do you understand that not just in full wars but we know of hundreds of other prominent
channels, Jihad Watch, you name it, that are being banned off YouTube if we simply don't
even show beheading videos that CNN can show.
We just show Islamists pouring in and robbing people's cars and shooting guns in the air
and stuff and they say it's violent and they don't age restrict it, they take our videos
down and if they don't accept our appeal, the site will be shut down.
And you've got CNN, MSNBC, all of them cheerleading for this saying once they take us down they
will take you down.
And I'm showing you the footage here.
This is what they ban.
This is what they say, I violated community guidelines, showing you this is the footage.
I'm not going to stop, they're not going to control what I put out.
This is, I only put out what I would think would be reasonable on the nightly news or
what you'd see on PBS and this is what you should be seeing on the news.
But they're covering this up now, they don't want this seen.
Okay, by the way, ISIS took responsibility for the big attack that shot 15 people, killed
two of them in Canada a few days ago.
They knew the guy was in Islamists, they knew he was in ISIS, they knew he was screaming
Allah Akbar, it's all come out.
But now it's not a big news story.
You imagine if it had been a question or a conservative.
Again, there's an agenda here, that's all coming up.
It's just getting insane.
Also, former Special Ops, official shot to White House, is it considering stripping
Hillary Clinton's security clearance?
We've got Larry Klayman, a judicial watch, a founder of that, now has his new organization
joining us to break it all down.
Cohen leaks confidential Trump Cohen recording.
I listened to this with headphones this morning very carefully, and it's obviously an edited
tape, you can put it on a timeline and see if there's edits, if you know how audio looks
in a computer.
We're going to do a piece on that later today for a destroyer show, the war room, putting
the file, you can see where it jumps and cuts and has been manipulated and just ends with
the word cash.
You're not even sure it's Trump's voice, but they haven't denied that he was about
to get married to Melania that he had had this long-term relationship with this other
super gorgeous lady who she said he treated her really nice, and he felt bad after he
got married, and he saw her a few times, but got her money, even though she didn't want
the money.
And you hear Cohen creep into the room all sneakily, and this is what they've got, no
wonder Trump said release the 14 recordings.
This is the best thing they've got, this is all they've got, wow, unbelievable.
And again, the tape, when you know wavelengths, when you know the signature of audio, you
learn that you can blow it up to like right down to milliseconds and you can see cuts.
Audio doesn't just go from really high to zero, if it's recorded in a room, there's
always a background, but in milliseconds though when there's a cut it puts a line in it and
we can see the cut, just like when we told you about Obama's birth certificate, I said
I don't know the truth about this, I don't know where he was really born, this thing
was in six layers, they used WordPress for Microsoft, the fake typewriter font, because
with a real typewriter every splat is like a snowflake, it's individual, how you push
the button, but with WordPress and Word and all these other systems, the typewriter functions
are all the same, it looks like it has splats, like a typewriter, but they're all the same,
we looked it up and I said it's fake, this is from the, you know, early 1960s or whatever
and we looked at the T's, the I's, the C's, they're the same thing, it's fake.
And then two years later, top German and top Italian scientists came out from two different
firms and said, we find they're using Microsoft Word and we find they're six layers, yeah,
I've worked in media for 20 something years, I know, they left them in layers, the file
was in layers to make us freak out about it and to think he was really from Kenya when
he was from Hawaii, Frank Marshall Davis' son, it's like, wow, the way they set us up
is amazing, but I've learned the tricks over the years.
So it's the same thing here, I pulled it in last night on my home computer, but I've got
one of those little re-eating free audio files, we've got Pro Tools and bunch of other systems.
So we're pulling it in here and we're going to show people that the tape is edited.
So I think that's going to be pretty big news, don't you, that whatever they put out has
been edited.
Okay, we're going to come back and just get into all of it here on the other side.
First off, I set out in In Full Wars Life to find out whatever the science and the research
and the industry and the consumers think is the best, all of that comes into it.
And then I do things like, let's put twice the amount of product in the bottle and then
have it at the price competitive to what others sell half as much, that's number one.
And we've got over 60 products now in In Full Wars Lifeline.
We're launching three more today, we've had these products in for two weeks, I've been
so busy I've not even cut ads, I've not even promoted them, I don't even have words to
describe how good they are.
This will now be the fish oil spectrum that my children take because I was already buying
them the rated best in the country and with the process to remove the mercury to non-detectable
levels with all of the known spectrums of fish oil that are the best for the brain.
And now we've come out with one stronger for less of a price, it's called Honor Roll and
it's smaller fish oil tablets so it's good for children, gel caps to absorb and to get
down and this will now be what my four children take.
I mean it's a fact they tell you, even when a baby stops breastfeeding, put the type of
fish oils that are good for the brain in their bottles, give it to them, their IQ's boost,
everything but for adults, for your body, for your energy, for your stamina, for your
brain, for the heart.
And we've got ultimate krill oil, EPA, DHA and other compounds, ultimate krill oil,
similar formula, different strokes for different folks, and then we've got Honor Roll, they're
all there, this is something everybody should be taking and it's the best quality at the
best price, InfoWarsLife.com, please check them out today.
This is Jessica Arman, founder of My Magic Mud.
Our team helped organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water
supply, this is our passion.
My Magic Mud Oral Care purifies and brightens your smile naturally.
GCN listeners, please support my family business by purchasing our products from your local
health food store.
We're also available at CVS Pharmacy or visit us at MyMagicMud.com and take 10% off now with
coupon code GCN10.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the US.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At Heart and Body Extract, we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart.
Don't just take my word for it, check out all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com
or to order call 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, HBXTrack.com, don't risk it when you can
take charge of it.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Glovelest.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantum product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantum base, the Real Red Pill, it's going to become one of our fellow InfoWars
favorite products.
Now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfoWarsStore.com.
Anyone who's studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified.
We have global hardcore anti-human psychopaths in control of the big corporations.
They're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control, dumb humanity down ahead of
replacing us with machines.
And Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a human future.
They are launching a civil war against nation states right now, collapsing our borders.
And my only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now.
Everybody should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and
launching their anti-human plan because they crave to control people.
Those of us that are pro-human don't crave power.
We already have the power.
But we have to realize these scum are coming after us and we have to speak out and take
action now.
InfoWars is on the front line, and so are you.
We are the resistance.
I'm about to break down some information that is so critical, I don't have words to describe
just how serious it is, but I hope that listeners and viewers of this broadcast will call Congress,
will get on their knees and pray to God, will just do whatever it takes to raise awareness
about what's happening so that we're not caught flat-footed on this situation.
I don't like the Moodles in Iran and their Islamic dictatorship.
I like to see their people liberated.
I don't like their belligerent activities.
I don't like the threats they've been making.
I support the president.
Their supreme leader has made more threats saying, we're not going to talk trash, we're
just going to take action against you.
But a few days ago, he said, mother all wars, they've got hezbollah sleeper cells all over
the world that make ISIS and al-Qaeda look like choir boys.
Now, that's it.
Communist China has been allied with Iran.
Communist China has encircled the U.S. financially, politically, they own our debt, they bought
off Hollywood, they're financing the leftist movements, Antifa, even the Washington Post
admit is run by Chinese intelligence.
I mean, if we were having a witch hunt for Chai-Kong agents, we'd be, it's like you're
out there fishing for Russia collusion, they maybe catch a little sardine or something
every few days.
You go out there and throw your lines in on Chai-Kong infiltration, your boat's going
to sink because there's going to be so many giant sharks and whales you're bringing in.
Better get a bigger boat, quote Josh.
So that's what's going on, that's the facts, that's the reality.
So Iran has a lot of deep state connections and plays a lot of hanky-panky with both political
parties and they're acting very, very belligerently and a new war or a new crisis with Iran could
be used to divert our resources, our energy away from the political and financial reboot
of the country.
Any fiascos or disasters like Jimmy Carter have with Iran could be used to embarrass Trump
and you see the neocons trying to direct us down that path, I think it's very, very dangerous.
There's a article from InformationLiberation.com, it's up on Infowars.com, everybody's to get
this out to folks.
Tucker Carlson and a very respected former counter-terrorism special operations colonel,
McGregor warned Trump Gulf of Tonkin incident could be staged to get the U.S. into war with
Iran.
What did I just say on Monday?
I said I would look for this to be triggered in the Persian Gulf and we could look at some
type of false flag event as well because this is how a lot of war start, not just in the
U.S. with the Gulf of Tonkin in 1964 and the Tonkin Resolution or 1898 in the sinking of
the Maine that was now admittedly to be staged and it just goes on from there but the British
were famous for this, the French did it.
False flags at sea are their favorite way to do it because what happens out at sea stays
at sea.
It's very easy to control the story, controlling witnesses.
But Iran's belligerent, they may attack our ships anyways and be promised by insiders
this is going to upset our peace deal with North Korea, all of it.
So the globalist want war is what I'm saying and Iran is isolated and Iran can be basically
reformed and dealt with, the sanctions I believe and many other experts believe, we don't let
them trip us into a big crisis.
So here's Tucker Carlson and the expert on counterterrorism, Colonel Douglas McGregor
last night breaking this all down here, Desh.
Do you think the advisors around him whose comments we just played, Nikki Haley for example
or John Bolton, they seem to come at this with pre-existing agendas?
Of course, but the good news is that President Trump hasn't listened very much to his advisors.
If he did, we would never have made any progress on the Korean Peninsula.
We would not be working with the Chinese.
We would never have met with Vladimir Putin, so God bless the president, he doesn't listen
to these people.
So I'm not too worried about that.
The thing that does worry me though, given the some of the comments that have been made
is this red meat on the table for the war lobby.
You and I know that there are a lot of people who would welcome conflict with Iran.
That's obvious.
I think the president needs to watch carefully for the potential for something like the Gulf
of Tonkin incident.
Many of your viewers may not remember that.
It never happened.
And we could very well be treated to something like that in the Gulf.
We should watch for that.
And this is an example of President Trump's comments on fake news.
He should not be sabotaged by fake news.
I agree.
We've seen it happen twice in Syria, twice.
Colonel, thank you very much.
Great to see you.
Tucker Carlson is one of the only people that will point out, it's actually three times
that they've staged chemical attacks ISIS has against themselves and they've been caught.
And then we're supposed to forget about that three times.
So again, you've got a former counterterrorism expert, 30 plus years of special operations
commanding black ops all over the world.
I mean, there's guys highly decorated with most respected people from special operations
saying they're getting ready to stage something.
We should really be worried about that.
You know, I made a film about the Gulf of Tonkin being staged.
And the mainstream media said I was a conspiracy theorist, but one year later, they declassified
it on the 40th anniversary that it was staged and released the McNamara tapes admitting
it all.
Now, let's go ahead and move to the next story.
This is a big one.
You remember the eight years of Barack Hussein Obama when more than 10,501 C3 churches and
501 C4 and other charities, veterans groups, pro-gun groups, conservative groups would
have their tax exemption revoked.
In some cases, criminal charges were filed and you tune into MSNBC five years ago in
the thick of this and they go, well, the Tea Party is racist.
These Tea Party groups and churches deserve to be indicted.
Now I believe in the First Amendment.
And Trump is trying to get legislation through where churches can do whatever they want.
They say it's political if a church is anti-abortion.
No, that's called being Christian.
But they turned churches into charities in the 60s.
This is something, again, LBJ did to get control of the churches.
They went from being churches to 501 C3.
It doesn't mean you don't have a good pre-turn.
It's still not a church in some cases, it's 501 C3, but they've got a muzzle on their face
unless they're Reverend Wright in Chicago saying, GD America, GD John Wayne, GD George
Washington, GD America.
But then Maxine Waters, who's always cheerleading to go after any conservative churches that
are pro-gun, pro-family anything, try to muzzle conservatives where they've all got their tail
between their legs.
She goes to a famous church that's known for corruption, you name it.
In their old parishioners, you name it.
And she says she's been sent by God to get Trump and that we've got to vote Democrat
in the midterms.
So this is just flagrant electioneering in one of the biggest and oldest black churches
in California, but then they're flagrantly targeting churches that are right of when
in their mouth.
It's illegal.
It's a fraud.
So when politics becomes religion, Mad Maxine breaks federal tax laws to slam Trump in church.
The Democrats need to get gored by their own ox.
They're the ones that have been persecuting everybody with this.
And until it's repealed, I want their ass thrown under the jail.
But that's all about leftist intimidation, isn't it?
Here she is.
Here to do the work that I've been said to do and it's past and said to me when I came
in this morning, when God sent you to do something to use as a tool.
So she's sent by God to vote against the Republicans.
I don't care if you want me to send you more money, I don't care if you pass it to me and
you don't care if you send it to me.
Here's the Democrat and she goes on to say she's sent by God and all this other crud.
Full clip is on infowars.com, so in the name of the church is fame, keeping blacks on the
plantation is what it's all about.
So unbelievable folks that the persecution, I mean, they had like conservative FBI retiree
groups that got SWAT teamed and lost their 501C, you know, four or whatever.
I mean, there'd been total persecution of gun groups, veterans groups, Christian groups
and saying, well, well, you're a pro family, that's a political stance, you're anti-abortion.
No, it's not, that's your religious stance.
They tell Christians they can't end up Christmas cards at schools or valovictorians, can't
say thank Jesus or quarterbacks when they make a touchdown pass, can't say thank God.
You know what?
We all have our free speech, we're going to do it.
But the Democrats have violated their own law, throw them under the jail.
Being a volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lelani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
More importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in
Fuller's life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price, it's stronger, it's the other equation in probiotics,
it knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months, it's got the preglinone that's the
precursor to all the natural hormones in your body, then it's got all the minerals and the
vitamins and amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle, that's a spray you do, you can also swallow
it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more, without you,
we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWareStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
InfoWare's Life is launching its newest product, we're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from
berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your
body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well
as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products, you get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with.
They're sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
Years ago, InfoWare's Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarko
bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Well they say a picture tells a thousand words, well so does a word.
And the word is R-A-T, as in the rodent family, or meaning big fat stinking rat.
Let's put DrudgeReport.com up on screen for TV viewers.
The rat, Cohen, the rat who tried to set Trump up for years, recorded, reportedly hundreds
of recordings, 14 that the feds have, who then the scandal is they leak it to CNN in
a federal court case against the president, an investigation Mueller started, metastasizes
into his lawyer, and payoffs over a decade ago to girlfriends, unbelievable.
And I use the term payoff, this latest girlfriend wasn't asking for any money, but he felt bad,
he got married, she was in the running, I know the inside baseball that Trump literally
asked his sons, right before he married Melania, he said, is Melania the one, or is, you know,
I mean, I'm going to leave it right there.
And let's just say Trump had trouble turning loose of a couple of girlfriends, Stormy Daniels
was a dalliance, and then that was a bad thing, but he never said he was the same.
But none of these women have said that they mistreated him.
But if you're paying for somebody to take care of him, fine, let him call it, it's not illegal
to pay somebody, it's not campaign violation either, just as you're in a campaign, you
give your money to somebody, so that they're taking care of.
Just like if somebody, you know, works here and they die, and then I give their wife some
money.
Is that a payoff?
No, that's taking care of somebody you've had a relationship with in business or life
or whatever.
But I digress, the whole issue here is what is Mueller doing going to federal court last
week and saying, we're recording the phone calls from jail of Manafort and we know his
strategy in court, he wants to delay this trial, here's the transcript of what he said,
illegal discussions in a court case, illegally being used in a filing, that's never been
done in U.S. history, that is 100% illegal.
The show was letting Jerry Epstein be an informant for a decade while he ran little girdles
on board planes for degenerate men to have sex with him, Tabin Spacey flew on the plane
quite a bit, but he liked other things, and of course Harvey Weinstein.
But he's the upright guy, he's the good guy.
But I digress, I digress, we've got the tape of Cohen, the first one they're doling out
and Trump's got like five different things going, they're talking about all these different
things, and he's like, yeah, delay that lawsuit about getting my old divorce records, embarrassing
my family from 30 years ago, yeah, do this, do that, yeah, whatever, and you hear the
word cash and it cuts off, and we've looked at the audio file, it's been edited, we're
going to present that later today, but right now, let's go ahead and play the rat, the
rat creeping in, you can even hear how he's nervously, oh, hi, how's it going, oh, there's
this thing, we take care of that, you know, that guy, yeah, yeah, yeah, here it is.
I think this goes away quickly, I think it's probably better, do the Charleston thing,
just this time, yeah, in two weeks it's fine, I think right now it's better, you know, okay,
you take care of yourself, thanks, Ben, yeah, I'm proud of you, so long, bye, what's up?
Great poll, by the way, great poll, big time, and you guys are good guys, oh, Pester Scott,
no, Pester Scott, what's happening, can we use him anymore, oh yeah, no, use Mark Burns,
he, we've called him, I don't mean that, Mark Burns, can we use him, no, no, I'm sorry,
he just had a chance, he had an idea for you, great, and pause again, this is the best they've
got, is a woman that, they were in a relationship for years, when he was divorced from the last
wife, and then he's about to get married, and he's like baby, I'm sorry, and it overlaps
a little, and he goes, hey, here's some money, and I'm looking into the case, this is what,
a billionaire, takes care of one of his girlfriends, call it a payoff, it's not illegal, how would
the girlfriend feel if she thought she was gonna get married to him, and he didn't help
her out, and I've seen her in interviews, she called Anderson Cooper, I didn't want money,
but he insisted, yeah, it reeks of desperation, let's go back to it, here it is.
I had to start from the New York Times, I told you this rule, to unseal the divorce papers
with Yvonne, with fighting it, Casowitz is going to, never be able to get married, never,
Casowitz doesn't ever be able, they don't have a, they don't have a legitimate purpose,
seeing a woman that doesn't want to marry him, correct, yes, and it's all, for about
two, three weeks now, all you have to do is delay it for hours, even after that, it's
not gonna ever be opened, there's no purpose for it, I told you about Charleston, I need
to open up a company for the transfer of all of that info regarding our friend David, so
that, I'm gonna do that right away, I've actually come up and I've spoken to Alan Weisselberg
about how to set the whole thing up with funding, yes, and it's all the stuff, all the stuff,
because you never know where that company, you never know where he's gonna be, correct,
so I'm all over that, and I spoke to Alan about it when it comes time for the financing,
which will be, they claim the word cash is in there, I can't even hear it, and then Cohen's
on TV going, that's what criminals do, that's what mobsters do, wow, so this is the best
they've got on Trump, I'm actually impressed here, I'm really impressed that this is the
best they've got with Mueller, with illegal spying on him during the campaign and after,
all this intel, and this is what they've got, three women over 15 years that Trump gave
between $100,000 and $200,000 a piece to him, and they say he treated him like royalty,
wow, that's really great man, that's really nice, and by the way, other than for me Daniels,
the other two started during the time he was not married, so I'm like, wow, this is
like, he's not even as big a playboy as I thought, and this is how he gets treated,
and then Mueller in a Russia investigation, grabs his lawyer's info and then puts it
on CNN, and no one's even going, what the hell's going on here, this is the desperation
of these people, this is insane, I had a lot of kinship with Trump, only because I bet
on it, America's coming back, I know I'm right, I'm being persecuted like the day is long,
and then I just, I don't know anybody else been persecuted like I have been, Trump way
worse than me, he's the only guy, so he's in a club, you see, with me, and we love America,
we're not screw people over, okay, what color you are, we want prosperity, we want to tell
the truth, you got these crazy people like Mueller and Comey that help cover up child
kidnapping rings, Epstein, all of it, and it's like, really, these weirdos are gonna
rule our lives, no, now listen, I'm not Trump, I don't own 100 big buildings and hotels and
golf courses, and he's got hundreds of lawsuits against him, we got like 20, 10 have been
thrown out, it wasn't cheap, and they're censoring us and blocking us, advertising everywhere,
you know what they've done, I'm not complaining, I'm just saying, you want us to win, you
want somebody to fight, I'm gonna fight to the end like a pit bull, that's just, because
these people are evil, you don't have to ask me to fight, I'm gonna keep fighting, even
if the dog food and the water doesn't get put in my bowl during breaks, I'm gonna fight
to the death, but if you want me to fight harder, put the food in the bowl, put the
water in the dish, and I will, I will, I will attack with everything I've got, and I'll
never stop, you've got 100% commitment, my family, my name, everything I am is on the
line, I am, and by the way, I love it, I love being 100% in, total commitment, but I need
your financial support, now, everybody who's done any research knows, fish oil is magic,
fish oil is incredible, fish oil is the one supplement I make sure I take every day, I
can be exhausted, 10 o'clock at night, do some radio interview, coffee doesn't work,
you know what helped me quit drinking at night, because I've, I mean, I've cut back drinking
massively over the last few years, you know what did it, fish oil, where's my dad going,
man, you promote fish oil, you got a sponsor that has it, he goes, you know what it does
for your brain, your blood pressure, everything, my dad's, you know, obviously a world surgeon
and retired dentist, and I like, yeah, in a little bit, well, I started taking fish oil
a couple of years ago, and I can be, this is me personally, super down, and exhausted,
and I gobble four or five big fish oils, and I am in heaven, so I'm just telling you,
man, fish oil is the electrochemical juice of the body, we have come out with the very
best krill oil, fish oil, and then on a roll, that's the full spectrum of known fish oils
for the brain, a lot of it's for the heart, this is for brain, on a roll, at infowarslife.com,
out of the gates, it's 25% off, 40% off when you get the combo of all three together, we
need funding, it's a win-win, if you're not taking fish oil, by the way, this has a process
to strip the mercury out, others don't, if you're not taking it, you're crazy.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients, such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Friends of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
With the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout, head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the Infowar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward
slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones here back live coming up in about 15 minutes for the Balanced The Hour.
Larry Klayman, founder of Judicial Watch, one of the great attack dogs out there for freedom,
the only guy that's won against the NSA, Legal Spying on Americans.
He's got a real strategy to really go after Hillary Comey and Brennan and Mueller and others.
So that's coming up.
Also, I'm going to clarify 100% clear, I don't want anything to happen to Mueller.
My whole high noon showdown, politically, I'm going to take you out like a gunfight
at the OK Corral.
That's like saying our football team is going to kill you.
Everybody knows I'm not for violence offensively.
I actually believe we would lose the fight against the lobalists if we start a physical
fight first.
We might lose it even if they started.
It's the last thing I want, so I'll break that down briefly in the next segment as well.
But just the way the media spins things, it's incredible.
So that's all coming up briefly though.
Joe Rogan is a really smart guy and he has a lot of diverse guests on his show and he's
got undoubtedly the number one podcast in the world, routinely 20 million viewers every
time he does a show.
Everybody can say I had 20 million here, 50 million there, 10 million here, but every
time it's 20 million.
When I came on as one of the biggest podcasts he ever had, 40 plus million.
That was back in February of 2017.
And I got mad when he kind of went with mainstream news that Soros was a Nazi collaborator,
whatever.
Joe was saying, listen, I don't even know the facts of that.
I was just going off the news and what Roseanne Barr had apologized for.
But on the subject of Joe Rogan, I believe he's a good guy who is morally trying to tell
the truth.
And I don't judge him for some of the things that he said or done because he's just looking
at all perspectives.
And that said, I'm not saying he's right, saying I'm wrong that Anthony Bourdain was
not killed nefariously in foul play by somebody that wanted insurance money or by Hollywood
star killers or by the Clinton mafia because he was getting ready to go public against
them.
But now that I've talked to people separate from Joe, who knew Bourdain and who knew what
was going on in New Jersey and New York when he came to visit and since I got contacted
by a lot of folks that knew Bourdain, he had a serious alcohol problem and some other problems
and was really depressed about it.
A lot of this he'd been public about.
And I learned that he did talk to other people about suicide and that his reported new girlfriend
who had been exposing some of the sex abuse stuff at Weinstein to him, she'd been stepping
out with a couple of guys.
He'd gotten really depressed over it and then he got really jet lagged and really just
burned out and that I think it was reasonable for Joe Rogan to say that he thinks he really
committed suicide.
And I'm not eating crow here, I just said, oh Joe, you're wrong or you're covering up.
But then when I looked at the facts and talked to folks, it's reasonable to say that Bourdain
could have killed himself because now I've talked to a bunch of people that know him
and know his friends, including somebody that works here, who I separately said, what did
you hear?
And it was the exact same thing I had heard about, you know, a certain thing.
She don't lie.
She don't lie.
She don't lie.
She don't lie, cocaine.
So I don't want to speak ill of the dead.
He was a great guy.
He meant well.
He was getting ready to go against the Clintons.
That stuff's true.
He did do the Elon Musk interview.
He was awakening.
He did say the things about how, you know, they were threatening him.
So they could have killed him.
I was right that he said those things and was about to go public against them.
That's true.
So that looks suspicious.
And I think it should be looked at and investigated.
But then I got contacted by a lot of folks going, man, Bourdain, dude, Bourdain could
like knock out two, three bottles of whiskey a day, six, seven, eight bottles of wine.
Bourdain was not proud of it.
But Bourdain was like a vacuum cleaner when it came to stuff up his nose.
And again, I must be ill of the dead.
Everybody's got their issues.
I'm not.
I'm just saying that then I heard all that how depressed he was and his girlfriend was
reportedly cheating on him.
And I'm like, oh, okay.
Well, then I guess I was kind of an a-hole just going, yo, how dare you say, you know,
that he probably committed suicide while I talked to people that say, about to go
public.
So you can see my perspective.
And I've been proven right that that was going on.
But then I learned how messed up Bourdain was, how shot he was, how tortured he was.
Very sad.
But at least he had a soul.
He was concerned about rape of women and kids and he was starting to speak out.
So I think it's an open question.
But it's very reasonable what Joe Rogan said by saying, hey, look, I think he might have
killed himself out.
She can't be conclusive.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
You've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against
us so we need your support.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
It's Alex Jones.
Google is being accused of hiding negative stories about Hillary and her campaign by
changing its algorithm to bury stories like the Clinton body count story that's according
to website infowars.
This conflict is confirmed, there are recent shooters to the fully automatic weapons.
Dr. Martin Luther King has been shot to death in Memphis, Tennessee.
JF King was shot from the back and the front.
It was almost as if there were a planned explosion. It just panicked.
It took the baby out of incubators and left the children to die on the phone.
I think this is a national security error.
We have clear things that we do not understand how they work, operating in areas that we can't control.
UFOs.
Is this global governance at last? Is it one world with central bankers in charge?
Israel claims the attack was accidental, but some former U.S. naval officers say it was on purpose.
They describe the day's action as part of a continuing cover-up.
Russian intelligence compiled a dossier on Mr. Trump during visits to Moscow.
Russian scum.
Denied everything. He called it all fake news.
And he accused CNN of being fake news.
This is a national emergency.
If they kill Trump or remove Trump, it will cause a massive civil war in this country.
This is a female high-level religion.
We are at war with Russia.
Are you aware that Mr. Stone also stated publicly that he was in direct communication with Julian Assange and WikiLeaks?
The White House and the President are citing info wars.
They could shut us down your next.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
Coming up, Larry Klayman has a real plan.
He's the guy that's won against the NSA in court.
Founder of Judicial Watch and other major organizations to really stop the deep state.
We'll be talking to him coming up.
Let me address this right now because as everyone knows, they've had congressional hearings twice last year and twice this year in the judiciary, the armed services, and the intelligence committees.
Lying about info wars, saying things we didn't say, and then calling for us to be shut down.
And then I do a lot of things here on air that are tongue in cheek, but they're very, very clear.
This is satire and they're trolling.
And I don't troll a lot, but when I troll, maybe a couple of times a week, I tell you, this is a troll.
And the media, even though I say this is a troll so that it's absolutely marked, they still don't care.
They still just go with the lie they want.
But that's the troll, is that I tell them what I'm really doing so that I morally am not breaking any metaphysical rules and then they still do it.
So number one, info wars.com.
Sharia compliant YouTube removes videos criticizing Islamic immigration.
Five videos.
Community guidelines strikes three will shut us down.
That's five torpedoes.
And they're saying, oh, you can, you can, you can appeal it.
But obviously they're not going to let us win the appeal.
They're going to shut the channel down.
It's here.
They had hearings last week.
They demanded it.
It's here.
And one of the videos, it's the snake video.
Every video is the snake.
An intro video that we've shown many times here that just shows the Islamic invasion of Europe.
It's nothing you wouldn't see on the nightly news if they weren't covering it up.
But I mean, it's just showing the Islamic attacks.
Does it show beheadings?
Does it show the actual violence?
It just shows the masses of people and the crime statistics and headlines and the borders collapsing and just stuff out of zombie apocalypse movies.
So because it's so powerful, they didn't do an age restriction.
They just said you showed violence, even though their own rules say it was for commentary or analysis.
We've totally followed the rules.
So we have that going on.
Meanwhile, there were hundreds of articles, ABC News, NBC, CBS, CNN, all of them, including Fox yesterday.
So I've been told by everybody and I've seen the headlines, ran with the headline, Alex Jones.
I'm going to cover my mouth when I say this, so they'll edit it and play it.
Alex Jones says he's going to shoot and kill Robert Mueller.
I never said that.
I said politically high noon, I'm going to face you.
Our information warfare strong.
We're going to defeat you.
And when I draw with my info, you're going down.
Just like I say, the allegory of we're going to blow the Death Star up or the Red River shoot out between OU and Texas.
They call it a shootout up in Dallas.
They'll body shoot anybody.
Now, when I did it, I had the idea.
I'm like, man, look at all these articles about Mueller involved in Epstein, Alita Express using him as an informant to set up billionaires.
Kids as young as sevens, what came out really in the reports.
They let him get off for 13, 14 year old, you know, girls they had flying over these islands of Bill Clinton and Epstein.
And because he was an informant, it finally came out.
Mueller covered this up.
So I'm saying Mueller empowered pedophiles.
So I wanted that to get out.
I'm sitting there in the break and I go, how do I get that out?
Because that's been in a few newspapers, never got coverage.
I said, I'll talk about a high noon showdown with him.
I'll say it's political nonviolent, but that politically we're going to destroy him.
Politically, we're going to, you know, sharpshoot him.
The last thing I'd want is him to actually get hurt and turn him into a martyr when we're defeating him.
My God, we're winning.
Why would we do that?
But then, man, I didn't expect it to be on every news channel.
And then I clicked.
Oh, my God, they know a lot of my listeners out there really respect me.
Whatever they're trying to get somebody who's unstable to go out and actually try to kill somebody to blame it on me.
So let me say this a thousand percent clear.
He who shoots first loses, he who shoots period is in the wrong side of history.
We're winning the info where everyone knows the Democrats are saying kill Trump, murder him, kidnap his family, murder him.
It's everywhere.
They were rolling some video of that right now with all the stuff we've seen.
So I was clear, but the edited thing that Media Matters, George Soros' group put out, was deceptive.
When you've got Phil Mudd, the former head of counterterrorism, that means runs assassination squads,
three times on CNN saying we're going to kill Trump.
That's who you want to listen to.
He's got a history of that.
It'd be like if I was some five-time convicted murderer and I said I was going to kill somebody, the SWAT team would respond.
Because, you know, I got a history.
Alex Jones doesn't have a history of that.
Alex Jones has a history of, well, don't shoot cops in the back of the head because your Black Lives Matter.
Don't get violent.
Don't try to work things out.
They're the left, I mean, as the Denver Post published a big letter in their main section saying,
kill Trump for treason.
They have art displays saying murdering.
It's everywhere.
So that's why this is so crazy.
So I did this split-second calculation.
That's how I do things, where I went.
You know, they're such hypocrites always saying kill the president and his family,
but then if we mildly say stand up to them, they claim it's violence.
I'll make that point and say it's figurative.
It's not allegory or it's political.
It's not physical.
It's info war.
It doesn't mean it's a tank running over.
It's informational.
And then I kind of split-second went.
They'll grab it.
They'll go crazy.
But they'll report me pointing out he was covering up for Epstein and using it for political blackmail.
And that all worked.
They actually published it all.
But then I went, oh, wait a minute, but they're trying to get somebody to do something to later than blame me.
So, blame you.
So, yeah.
At a gut level, I think I did the right thing.
But they're going to misconstru it.
Do I like letting my ex-wife or the courts or other people have stuff like that to take out of context?
Whatever.
We're in a big war.
I'm going to say it like it is.
Everybody knows that I want Hillary Clinton and Robert Mueller and Comey and all of them to spend a long time in prison.
The last thing we want is Obama or Hillary or Mueller to get shot or killed.
God, that could defeat us.
And the enemy knows that.
A false flag is what we're worried about.
Tucker Colson with a high-level former black op colonels was exposing the fact they may do that to try to overturn Trump.
That was on Fox News last night.
And that shows the triumph of info wars that we've introduced these understandings of how things really work now until the point that reality is now mainstream.
So we're winning thanks to you.
And so I salute you all.
But they're trying to shut us down and got a big stack of news there, you know, them threatening to kill the president.
And that's all cute and dandy when they say we're going to kill him or kill Scalise or kill more Republicans or break Rand Paul's ribs.
That's all cute.
I go, hey, figuratively high noon, spaghetti Western, I'm going to politically, you know, take you out.
They go, oh my God, you're going to kill our God, our so-called president.
They think he's the, you know, deep state's president, Mueller.
Mueller is a joke, a discredited cover-up artist of the Saudis.
I hope he lives forever in hell.
Jessica Arman, founder of My Magic Mud.
Our team helped organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water supply.
This is our passion.
My Magic Mud Oral Care purifies and brightens your smile naturally.
GCN listeners, please support my family business by purchasing our products from your local health food store.
We're also available at CVS Pharmacy or visit us at MyMagicMud.com and take 10% off now with coupon code GCN 10.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
You have been lied to.
My name is Kevin Ship. I'm a former decorated CIA officer.
Finally someone has come out and written what I think is the best ex-Mose on the shadow government ever.
We're in a constitutional crisis and our government is now being run and ruled by a shadow government.
We've got to get this out because just because you're awake, folks, doesn't mean other people are.
This is critical to get, to read, to give them a library, to give them a church.
Right now it's killingunclecmbook.com.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Anyone who's studied history and knows how human systems work is horrified.
We have global, hardcore anti-human psychopaths in control of the big corporations.
They're trying to wreck free market and consolidate total control, dumb humanity down ahead of replacing us with machines.
And Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a human future.
They are launching a civil war against nation states right now, collapsing our borders.
And my only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now.
Everybody should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and launching their anti-human plan because they crave to control people.
Those of us that are pro-human don't crave power, we already have the power, but we have to realize these scum are coming after us and we have to speak out and take action now.
Infowars is on the front line and so are you, we are the resistance.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Alright, Larry Claimman is the founder of Judicial Watch.
He heads up FreedomWatchUSA.org.
He's one of the only people to have a successful case against the NSA and help expose all that.
He's demonized a lot by mainstream media and by establishment Republicans because they're bought and paid for.
But he's done a lot of great work to help get the impeachment of Bill Clinton going, you name it.
So he's a man of action.
And there's a lot of paper terrorism.
By the left, the right, the UN, the globalists, I mean they all engage in it.
And a lot of them are about citizen grand juries and it's some guy out there in his log cabin sending in weird legal theories that aren't real.
But under British common law, English common law, Judeo-Christian common law, the Magna Carta, when the courts aren't doing their job, it reverts back to the people.
So he's a scholarly lawyer, he's going to break this down.
But just a citizen's grand jury live on television presenting evidence to citizens that are randomly called.
That's powerful and you can look into that.
In the United States, the citizen grand jury is a non-actionable, non-governmental organization that assumes responsibility upon itself to accuse an individual.
Well, that's what Wikipedia and the globalists say.
They also say the Constitution should be repealed over Wikipedia.
So we're going to look at this plan that Larry Klayman's got.
The last time we had him on a few months ago, I've got a lot of interest.
And then you just as a lawyer, look at the security clearances, Hillary Clinton, the deep state.
We are where this country is at this point, the FISA court being illegal, using illegal stuff to go out to Trump.
I mean, this is really, it looks like they're losing right now, but they're obviously trying to strike back.
So Larry Klayman, thanks for joining us.
Alex, God bless you.
Nice to see you and nice to hear you.
And I heard your monologue.
You're absolutely right.
We can't do anything.
It physically harms people because that would make them martyrs and it wouldn't be the right thing anyway.
But what we can do is bring about justice ourselves.
And what we've started at FreedomWatch, FreedomWatchUSA.org is a Freedom Watches Justice League.
Using that as an analogy, the superheroes did not look to the government to bring about justice.
They had to do it on their own because the government had become corrupt and ineffective.
And Justice Scalia back in 1992, in a Supreme Court case, majority opinion, which he wrote, said that the grand jury belongs to the American people.
It does not belong to the three branches of government.
We didn't even have a Justice Department until July 1st, 1870.
By the way, as a respective constitutional lawyer, spend some time on this because people understand that we, the people, judge the facts as well as the law, that the grand jury is the ultimate form of a jury.
You have the ballot box, the cartridge box, the jury box, the pen and ink.
Explain that because this is critical.
The grand jury is a group of citizens. When we choose them, we're going to talk about that.
It'll be for neutral voter rolls. We're not going to pack it. We're not going to cook it.
We're going to put Americans on there who are neutral in effect.
Because they've got rigged grand juries or scared grand juries controlled by district attorneys and others.
We're going to recreate the true, pure thing.
Exactly. And there's so much evidence out there. We're ready. We don't need more documents.
You know, my former group does mostly documents.
Freedom Wash brings hard hitting cases. And that's why we need to commission a grand jury.
We want to do it in Texas beginning on September 25th of this year.
Time is short. We need to bring about indictments.
We then need to try these cases in front of the retired judge or someone who is independent.
We need to get convictions. We need to sentence. And yes, we need to even do citizens arrest peacefully and legally.
Just be clear though. Just airing it live for like two weeks or whatever.
Ten days. With a real jury off the voter rolls and a real judge in the real evidence.
Who's going to defend the deep state though? Because we've got to have a defense.
Well, we're going to subpoena them and indict them. They can come if they want to. I hope they do.
And I hope they come with their lawyers. Lawyers like Lanny Davis is doing a number on the president today with Michael Cohen.
Let them come. Field of dreams. Let them come.
We'll talk about that next segment in the mechanics of it. Because it isn't the Constitution. It isn't Magna Carta.
It isn't common law. It's in Judaic history. This is the people's juries. This is it.
Let me ask you this though. Shifting gears. What is wrong with Cohen?
These tapes aren't even bad for the president. And then there's suddenly something in federal court.
But that Mueller instigated over Russiagate is now tapes about girlfriends in between marriages is now on CNN.
And we hear that Manafort is having his phone calls with lawyers recorded.
And then they put that in federal filings that they recorded him with his lawyers about his defense.
I mean, I'm a lawyer like you, but I've never heard of stuff like this.
This is illegal. And the laws of the various states, even if there's a fraud that's being committed,
you have to ask the client to correct it first before he release any information.
Cohen and Lenny Davis violated attorney client privilege. They should be held accountable by bar associations.
So what do they got? They obviously got something else on Cohen separate from Trump.
Most likely they do. And this was this is an outrage. It's something that'll be dealt with.
I'm going to deal with it at Freedom Watch. These people deserve to have bar complaints.
I was about to say even mainline lawyers are pissed about this.
I mean, this really, this is a next level of bad name for lawyers.
You know, Lenny Davis, he tries in the past to play both sides.
He even got on Fox News with Hannity frequently.
This is one of the sleaziest lawyers in Washington, D.C.
And that's saying a lot. And I sued him a number of years ago when I was running judicial watch.
He wasn't happy about it, but he's even reached higher degrees of sleaziness during the present time period.
He wants to get Trump's head. He's sifting obviously.
I'm going to ask you again, how does a Mueller investigation morph into his lawyer?
And now they're airing tapes in a secret federal case on CNN.
I mean, that should throw the whole case out, right?
That the federal court has suddenly had stuff on CNN.
Absolutely, Alex. And, you know, in September 4th, we're going to be getting documents.
This is where documents really do count of Mueller's communications with the media as well,
because this was released to the media, CNN.
These are violations of grand jury rules. They're criminal.
And that's why the citizens grand jury, one of our first targets, in addition to Hillary Clinton,
in addition to Bill Clinton, is Robert Mueller. We want to legally take him out.
Well, talk about that next time. I want to go back to just releasing tapes.
I'm no lawyer, but I read the news for 25 years. As you just said, as a lawyer,
I've never heard of, like, secret recordings that a federal court has are on CNN.
And then a lawyer brags he leaked them.
As you said, that's totally illegal. The left has just gone crazy.
Absolutely. This is the age we live in.
The elites and the Washington establishment, the club, walk off scot-free from any crime they wish to make.
We're going to record lawyer meetings with Manafort. We're going to put it in a filing.
How does a judge see a filing of secret recordings of a guy with his lawyer?
Can't. And this is something that needs to be addressed with the judges, too.
I mean, look at the judges signed off on the FISA warrant. That's Rosemary Collier.
She's a not too intelligent, believe it or not, Republican establishment creation
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. She should be held accountable as well
for all of these kinds of things that go on. The judges do not enforce the law.
They are political generally, and most of them are hacks.
Most of them are Clinton and Obama appointees as well.
And they're bad Republicans, too, like this judge.
Well, stay there. I'm going to give you the floor when we come back to walks with the technicals.
The grand jury idea. It's a great idea to bring attention regardless.
It's in the Constitution, and go back to that.
But, folks, when they're recording people with their lawyers in jail and putting it in federal filings,
and when they're leaking to the news, recordings of the president many years ago
about some woman from a decade before, it's illegal.
I mean, my God, it shows they think we're all illiterate politically and legally.
What does the president do? What do we do? M4Wars.com, NewsWars.com, where he claims as our guest,
FreedomWatchUSA.org. We'll be back. Whatever you do, spread those live links.
That's critical to fight.
OneWay.com.
That's TheYLN.co.
It's the first iteration of survival shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2, the super male vitality, the caveman, the real red pill,
micro ZX body. It's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you, the crew,
and the listeners out there, 1776 Worldwide.
Thank you.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info Wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet,
shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced four-stage compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water
all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase
or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
The world is a dangerous place.
The world is a dangerous place, not because of evil, but because of those who look on and do nothing.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center.
It's Alex Jones.
We're not just making these claims. We're changing the world.
We have the globalists, the big banks, Soros, the other scumbags, the radical Islamists after us.
We just had our YouTube channel frozen from live streaming
because we played the president's snake speech in five video intros.
And they're calling that violent.
You know, I have a stack of acid attacks on three-year-olds, rapes of little children,
members of parliament being threatened with death or exposing slave harems,
the Islamists are setting up.
It is unbelievable. That's all coming up.
Before we go back to Larry claiming, though, the president knows that the euro on average has over 100% tariff on our goods.
Canada has a 280% tariff on all dairy.
I mean, there's thousands of examples because there's hundreds of countries and dozens and dozens of tariffs apiece,
but China has a 0% corporate tax.
It was 15% last year. We lowered ours to 15 to be competitive. They went to zero.
This is this. This was our own elites selling America out.
And so here was a clip of Fox News. I was just watching her in the break. It was live where they're talking about the EU coming here.
He says the EU is a foe. The EU, he says, Yonker is coming to meet with him today and tomorrow.
I saw this headline in AP last week that Germany is looking for old Nazis in nursing homes,
whose names come up in databases who might have been an SS, even private.
Great. Execute them.
The point is, is that Soros helped round up thousands of Jews in Hungary, Romania, you name it.
And you got Yonker, that was the name of the main weapons manufacturing. His grandfather was the richest man in Nazi Germany.
Bankroll Hitler, his dad was an SS colonel, which is equivalent of a general.
They own Luxembourg and then he's coming over here and our news doesn't tell you that.
Like, where's the Mossad? You're looking for Nazis. Holy Toledo, man. Here's the guy with the Nazi money right here.
So it's all smoke and mirrors when they grab some senile 97-year-old German guy to know what planet he's on,
or some Polish jail guard, and it turns out it's the wrong guy and they actually got him to Israel.
We're going to go back to Larry Clinton right now, but here's this clip as the real Nazi comes to America. Here it is.
Did President Trump in the recent weeks describe the European Union as a foe of the United States,
but he also said that there could potentially be, quote, tremendous retribution coming to the EU.
Now President Trump is set to sit down in the Oval Office face-to-face with the head of the president of the European Commission,
Jean-Claude Juncker. We were told that he just arrived here.
President. He was not elected. It's a permanent dictatorship like the Politburo.
That's what I mean. How did we, a Nazi heir, some guy worth, probably the richest guy in the world,
you know, the real rich guys will tell you they're well, they'll finish up and go to our guest. Go ahead.
The White House minutes ago. Leading up to this meeting, the president on Twitter this morning tried to position the U.S.
as the one winning the global trade tit for tat, writing at one point on Twitter, quote,
negotiations are going really well. Be cool. The end result will be worth it.
The president's top economic advisor, Larry Kudlow, this morning, set a pretty low floor as it relates to the expectations.
I love how even Fox News kind of roots against the president.
No wonder the economy's coming back when we've been given one-sided screwover deals.
Larry Klayman, we're going to get into your citizen grand jury. I want to talk to you.
We're talking off here about us sponsoring or trying to do it somewhere.
I think this is really important just for the optics to have a real people call and see what the average public is a focus group thinks.
I get your legal facts of where it is in law, but just separately overall, a year and a half in of Trump.
I mean, has he not over-delivered? Shouldn't America just be throwing rose petals at his feet?
Instead, it's just like, oh, how dare you bring the economy back and not let us get after over?
It's very saddening, actually.
It is. I mean, he's done a great job, you know, and I like Ronald Reagan. I'm sure you did too, Alex.
But I think President Trump's going to prove to be an even greater president.
He's the president of our times, and he's the only one who tells it like it is, like you and me.
Talks about corrupt judges. Talks about radical Islamic forces that are trying to destroy us.
Talks about illegal immigrants are committing crime. No other president would ever take these issues on.
And of course, we remember the Bush family that basically sometimes collaborated in these things.
So for a Republican to come forward like this and to really represent the American people, this is special.
And that's why we need to protect him legally and ethically.
And that's what we're doing at FreedomWatch.
Exactly. FreedomWatchUSA.org.
So explain, for people who historically just joined us, people tune in every five minutes, huge audiences,
hundreds of thousands every five minutes, tune in.
Larry Klainman, top constitutional lawyer, founder of traditional Washington name at FreedomWatchUSA.org.
Describe what a citizen's grand jury is. Why we want to convene it, what it does.
It's what we used to do in the old West before the Justice Department.
You bring in citizens to sit on the grand jury, you present evidence.
We've already got enough to indict everybody.
Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, Robert Mueller, James Comey, the intelligence chiefs under Obama, Brennan Clapper, Obama himself.
We present this evidence to the grand jury.
It doesn't even have to be probable cause in a true sense.
The jury can basically indict a ham sandwich, but we're going to do this correctly.
And we're going to do it with firm evidence.
We're going to have witnesses and we're going to get indictments.
Then we start a trial and we choose a jury for that.
Also from neutral voter rolls.
And we have a retired judge or someone who is independent, who has knowledge of the law, oversee that.
We will seek convictions.
Like I said, we'll call witnesses.
And then when parties are convicted, such as Hillary Clinton, finally, for the email scandal, for Fusion GPS, for the Steele Dacia, you name it.
Benghazi.
Then we sentence Benghazi.
We sentence.
And we then seek to have those sentences enforced.
We can try to go to US Marshall or the courts, but if they won't do it, then we have the right as citizens to enforce those convictions.
Sure, but the media always has a debate about where this is or what its enforcement power is.
Regardless, if they're advocating their responsibility, everybody wants this.
It's the truth.
This is a way to have a focal point to bring the facts out.
That's where I totally agree.
In history, explain to people, Magna Carta, you name it, as a constitutional lawyer, this is where this all came from.
Absolutely.
But let's go back to the days before 1776.
You had King George III take our criminal justice system back to the court of King James.
And we had no justice system.
So that was what sparked.
And that's in the Declaration of Independence is that you took our citizen juries away.
Right.
And what did we do?
I mean, we had founding fathers.
They were kind of like, you know, in the cartoon way, the Justice League.
They said, hey, these laws don't apply to us.
We're going to follow laws of mankind, laws of God, and we're going to bring about justice.
And that's what the Declaration of Independence was about.
That's what we fought the war for.
Now, we can do it peacefully and legally, but we have the absolute right to do it ourselves.
And we cannot depend on the government to do it.
We've got a corrupt Justice Department run by a zero attorney general, Jeff Sessions,
a corrupt deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein.
We've got a Congress that just does pony shows, dog and pony shows.
Well, I can tell you just the spectacle of a real citizen grand jury and then a trial
would be just showing the evidence as a presentation.
I understand under law and common law, it's legitimate.
But I'm saying regardless of the debate, just from the point of fact, it's very valuable.
It is.
And that's why Alex, if you can play a role in this, it's your decision.
I'd like to do it in conjunction with info wars because you speak the truth.
Okay.
You're not afraid.
I'm not afraid.
You and I say things you can't say on Fox News.
I mean, we're talking to the people.
The people know that something's rotten in Denmark, in this case, the United States.
And to be able to showcase that publicly to the country and to the world will show us
that we have a real justice system that beats out equal justice.
So I hope people will go to freedomwatchusa.org, contribute to our cause, sign up.
You should see the comments on our petition.
People are at the point beyond frustration.
No, I agree.
And so is the military, the police, everybody.
America's ready.
And a lot of this, I'm not saying Trump's not doing enough, but let's talk about what
Trump should do as well, just in this moment with Mueller.
I mean, it's insane how he's delivering uranium on tarmac secretly and then saying, and he's
interviewed like 30 people I know of asking about me and Russians.
I mean, it's just, dude, you're the one on tarmac giving them uranium.
Piece of crap.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 percent organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium is a super combo that is made from a source of
100 percent organic mustard seed.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium is a super combo that is made from a source of
100 percent organic mustard seed.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent
control, dumb humanity down ahead of replacing us with machines.
And Trump has come in and is resisting that and saying we have a human future.
They are launching a civil war against nation states right now and collapsing our borders.
And my only message is this, everybody better wake up and realize the fight is now.
Everybody should be very, very urgent because the left and the globalists are frantic and
launching their anti-human plan because they crave to control people.
Those of us that are pro-human don't crave power.
We already have the power, but we have to realize these scum are coming after us and
we have to speak out and take action now.
Info Wars is on the front line and so are you.
We are the resistance.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Info Wars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high-quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with Vitamin
Mineral Fusion today, available at InfoWarsStore.com.
We are on the march, the empire is on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network.
Next hour, I'm going to open the phones up to cover any topic or issue you want, a bunch
of issues and things I haven't gotten to yet.
Sorry, claimants are guests and I don't say any one thing we do as a silver bullet to
evil but I think resistance is the silver bullet in taking action and just from a court
TV perspective, putting on the evidence of the crimes of the globalist and the crimes
of the deep state and the things that they've engaged in is what needs to be done.
There are so many men I know who think they get ahead because they go along with the system
and just try to figure out how to make as much money as possible but then their kids
commit suicide or they end up alone, they're just so damn unhappy.
And the people I know that are the most happy and involved are those that are engaged, who
are changing the world, Larry Klayman.
He gets demonized and lied about and attacked a lot because he helped launch the impeachment
of Bill Clinton.
He exposed the NSA.
I mean, I can look at a hundred victories we've had and Larry Klayman was involved in
like 30 of them and so that's why there's a big hit out on him and an immunization.
So do I think citizen grand jury is going to save the world?
No.
Do I think there are a lot of people that think it's a magic bullet and they're out there
doing all their own quacky stuff from their own cabins saying that's the citizen grand
jury?
But under law, this has all been so atrophied, so fallen apart, so gone that it really is
where we came from.
And so at some point you've got to create the vehicle in some courtroom, you can rent
courtrooms.
They've got places for private mediation that look like courtrooms, I've been in them.
You can send out the letters, you can get real people there.
You can put on the evidence and that's the type of thing because it's conservatives
or Christians or patriots or just pro common sense people.
We don't like to grandstand.
We're like, you know, we've got our lives and I go home at night, I just want to be
with my kids and family.
I'm not out grandstanding, but evil is grandstanding though.
So we have to create the scenarios, the atmospheres, the conditions to put these people on trial
if it's not being done through our corrupt systems.
Let me ask you this Larry Klayman.
I are so many men cowards because I don't say that like, oh, look, I'm not a coward.
I feel big.
It makes me feel, because I don't feel like I'm that strong.
It makes me feel really low that I'm in the top 10, top 10 to 1% when it comes to fighting
evil.
I don't say that with pleasure.
My God, I'm pathetic.
And then everybody else just thinks it's not their job and then it's like, oh, citizen
grand jury.
Oh, you'll never fix it.
Oh, well then roll over to communist China.
Hell, put your kids on heroin, jump off a cliff.
I mean, if there's no standing up, there's no getting involved.
Why are we even alive here, Larry?
You're absolutely right, Alex.
I think most people, particularly lawyers, okay, they want to enrich themselves.
They don't want controversy.
They don't want to stick their neck out there by nature, not in the political sense, but
in a sense of how they lead their life, very, very conservative.
I reached the point of frustration many, many years ago, 25 years ago, and I said, I can't
take it anymore.
I see the corruption in the legal system.
I see money influencing what's going on in government and Washington, D.C.
And I've got to do something about it and it built.
And this is the culmination of it because 25 years ago, it was child's play compared
to today in terms of the rank corruption in our federal system.
And we have to take these people out legally.
Otherwise, the alternative is civil war and revolution.
And we don't want to see that.
So we need to use-
And by the way, we see the communist and the socialist, the Cortezes and the Sanders going
that direction.
I mean, they're going in that direction.
We better do something.
Absolutely.
And we don't have any more time.
Mueller is waiting to either indict the president or issue-
I was about to ask you as a top constitutional lawyer, and Dershowitz has talked about this
too.
Well, what do you think they're really planning?
Because clearly, they've got the president in the crosshairs.
They're out there to destroy the president whether or not he's indicted or whether or
not he's impeached.
But the report that Mueller is going to be issuing very shortly, and that's why we're
cranking up these citizens' grand juries, because he's number one, along with the Clintons,
of who we're going to indict, convict, sentence, and then seek to arrest peacefully and legally.
Mueller is out there, a product of the Democrat and the Republican establishment.
He is the establishment.
As you said, a lot of times, a citizen grand jury, if it's done right, creates the blueprint
for other grand juries to do their job.
So we're creating also the investigative history.
And we have to stick our neck out.
Look, it was a handful of colonialists.
They're founding fathers that started the revolution.
Most of the colonies were not behind them.
We're going to create, Alex, you and I, a groundswell here to bring in millions of Americans
to support our cause.
And whether or not we actually can arrest anyone, when they see that the American people
are against them and are at their gates, literally, demanding that they turn themselves
in, then they're going to have to leave, will be in their best interest to leave.
And that's what we're out to do, is to create...
Agri, we've got to create the excitement, the focal point, but I interrupt you.
I apologize.
We'll hold you in the next hour if you can do it.
Tell me then.
Getting into Mueller, because obviously he's so evil, Comey, Clinton, I mean, these are
just...
The uranium one, everything they say Trump did, they've done, and then as you said, they
are moving against the president.
They're taking action.
They are, and they're serious.
And we can see with regard to the comments about Russia, which even Fox News was trashing
Trump last week, you see that these Republican establishment types are equally against Trump
and equally...
Well, the tellers, they're going along with the bandwagon.
Because he threatens their money train.
He threatens their power structure.
You go to Washington, you wouldn't see building like that in any other city of the world.
Go to Southwest today.
The money that's flowing into Washington, they don't want to upset the apple cart.
It's the richest city in the country.
It never has a recession.
I mean, it does better during recessions and depressions.
And so the Democrats and Republicans, they play their game on Fox News, CNN, or MSNBC.
They raise money to be reelected, but in the end, they all have lunch together the next
day because they know that they don't want to...
So let me ask, why does Trump scare him so much?
Why is he real?
Because he's breaking it up.
He's dismantling it.
No, I know, but from your acumen, your grant, who is he?
Because they are so afraid and everything he does turns to gold.
I mean, it's like, who is Trump?
Trump's someone who, like you and I, have reached a point of frustration and no return.
He's going for the fences, but he's worth $8 billion.
So he doesn't need to do this.
But isn't he almost like a Moses-type character, archetypally?
He is.
He is.
He's somebody who's leading us to the promised land.
Now, you know, we have to do it for ourselves.
We need to support him.
He's not getting the support.
In fact, he's getting bad legal advice because being dragged along into this attack, this
massacre by Mueller, which even if it doesn't take him out in terms of impeachment or indictment...
It elevates Mueller.
He should not meet with that piece of crap.
No.
It grinds the president to a halt as he's trying to negotiate peace with North Korea,
with Iran, dealing with illegal immigrants.
Let's take, I mean, let's take the Messianic angle, that's what this is.
He needs to tell us we're not with them and just lead us.
We have all the powers, the people.
He must...
How do we stay within Babylon but not be part of it?
How do we leave Egypt, but we're still here?
What does Trump do?
Trump has to take strong action himself.
He should be firing Mueller.
He should be firing Rosenstein.
No one's about to be a parent.
He should take action against the guy in the slave pit, Katerinining people.
He has to go after the slave master.
He does.
And he should be releasing all the documentation that we're going to use at the citizen's grand
juries.
He needs to take control of himself.
His lawyers, including Rudy Giuliani, okay, are basically in it for themselves in terms
of promoting themselves.
They're not serving the president very well because they're telling him to go along to
get along.
And if that happens, his head's going to be chopped off.
Oh, it's totally clear he's being maneuvered towards the guillotine.
Yes.
Absolutely.
And he needs also to pay more attention to the appointment of judges.
This guy, Kavanaugh, that he wants this to Supreme Court justice, he got bad advice on
that from the Republican establishment.
Kavanaugh, in our cases, wrote that the mass surveillance was perfectly fine.
No, I understand Kavanaugh's bad on that, but better than the Democrat nominee, right?
Well, definitely.
But what I would like to see the president do is withdraw that nomination and put somebody
in there that will support our privacy rights because it's this mass surveillance.
Well, who would you nominate then?
Your smart guy.
Well, I think Judge Hardiman would have been better or anybody else who believes in the
Fourth Amendment.
But notice when he gives them what they want, they attack even stronger.
That's right.
And because they understand that they have lost their power in Washington, DC, as long
as the president is in control.
And I think, you know, look, I'm a registered Republican, Alex, you know, I mean a true Republican.
I ran for the U.S. Senate in Florida back in 2003, 2004 as a true Republican.
But this Republican party has become corrupt.
I mean, there are a few good people in Capitol Hill, but no one listens to them.
No, you're right.
Stay there.
We got to go to break.
Larry Klam is our guest.
Folks, I didn't even plug this tower.
We've got the new ultimate fish oil in.
If you don't know what fish oil does, it's a two-month supply at the price of one-month
supply.
It's got the whole process that removes the mercury down to non-techable levels.
You know, you'd have to get hundreds of times this amount of mercury just to get any of
the good fish oil response on a roll is for your kids.
It's amazing for the brain.
Ultimate Crill Oil, infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com.
We have all the great t-shirts, books, videos.
Without you, Soros and the Globals will shut us down.
Please commit again today to support InfoWars and get great products, infowarsstore.com,
InfoWarslife.com.
Our number three straight ahead, Larry Klam.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most
concentrated, over-the-top, stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at InfoWarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
Years ago, InfoWarslife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco
bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarslife.com.
That's InfoWarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Central Texas, broadcasting word-of-why.
If you've studied history, you know history is happening right now.
Larry Clemens, Art Gas, will have him back up very soon.
We're developing some plan for a citizen grand jury, at least to do it legally and
lawfully to focal point on the crimes that have been committed.
It'll only do good, but we have a leadership with Trump and somebody who's pragmatic,
pro-free market isn't out to get the country.
That alone has turned the country around.
That's the global biggest problem as things are turning around, but then you've got the
trader class, the elitist class, that have been groomed because they're sell-outs in
both political parties who know their end is close, so they're throwing everything they've
got at us right now in ways that's waking people up faster, but I don't want to be too
overconfident and think that we're going to win this thing.
We need to talk about what we do to win it, but just the epicness of history, how the
communist Chinese are literally involved in everything, Russia in my experience has almost
no influence.
I'm on Russifile, I've never been there, I just study the facts, but it just makes
me ashamed of the average American who I love not realizing who's on the fence that it really
is Messianic, that Trump with his bullheadedness and his stubbornness and all the things that
Patriots, myself, Ron Paul, Larry Clemens, you know, back to Barry Goldwater, all the
people that fought against this global plan, all our work now is cresting right now with
Trump.
It's all info wars building all these years, right then at the level, right when all this
hits, full power, you know, 86 million viewers a week or whatever before the censorship.
I mean, you look at it, you sit back, this is God's plan.
I mean, if you didn't believe in God before, this will make you believe in God, I just
feel sorry for people that don't realize this and who are still sitting on the bench kind
of as spectators, like they're on our side, they're on their own side, but they still
think, oh, Larry Clemens there, or Rand Paul's there, or Matt Drudge is there.
I don't think they get Larry, no, they've got to get in the fight and they say, well,
what do we do?
Well, Alex, you're right.
And you know, I was saying before the election, you probably were too.
I said, this thing's over, but for the grace of God, I don't see how God could allow Hillary
Clinton to become president.
He doesn't want to take this country down.
So I believe that God had a big role to play, in fact, the major role in Trump's victory.
I knew it.
My gut Trump was going to win.
I mean, because there's still people who love God in this country.
Absolutely.
And this is why we need to do everything we can to make sure he succeeds and that he's
safe and that he's well.
People make jokes about that, but there's no debate.
He's an imperfect vessel.
We all are.
He was never hypocrite, but Trump has one billion percent been chosen and risen up.
There's only one perfect deity, and that was Jesus, okay, and the father.
Everybody has their flaws, for sure.
And that's what, of course, the NSA and the CIA and the FBI under Comey and Clapper and
the rest of them are trying to do.
They're trying to dig things up on the president, whether he's done things in the past that
he'd rather not do again is irrelevant.
What he's done as president is remarkable in our lifetime.
I'm surprised.
Is it more dirt?
And he's like, there's really nothing there.
No, there's nothing there.
I mean, you know, I'm sure he regrets any relationships that he had with these women
or whatever, but look, he did it before he was president.
He didn't do it as president.
But King David, and I'm not defending it, but God said, man of his own heart, he killed
his best friend in a fit of lust, but later repented and God knew it was real.
I mean, and they think we Christians or hypocrites were going to hate Trump is not perfect.
He never said he was perfect.
No, he didn't.
And that's why if you get back to this concept of the citizen's grand jury, we need to take
action now.
We can't wait.
You know, every day you watch on Fox News and others on the conservative side, hey,
there are more documents.
Okay.
Who cares about more documents at this point?
I care about action.
You care about action.
So we've got to come back and do five more minutes because I want to get in as a lawyer
top because lawyer, what they've done exactly, they illegally spied, they got caught.
They lied to Congress.
It's like if you catch a serial killer with 10 dead bodies in their backyard, start the
indictments.
Even if there might be 200 more in the forest is what you're saying.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean, that's it.
I mean, we've got to do it now.
We have no time to do it and let's come back and I'm going to let you get into what you
think.
Citizen grand jury, how he set it up.
I'd like to be involved.
It just sounds like her didn't catch to me, but it needs to be done.
I want to step up.
I know now is the now is the season like like the end of summer, the harvest now is maximum
push.
This is the time of change.
This is the crossroads, maximum push now and the future will be determined by our actions.
Feeling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Live from Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
Welcome to Austin, Texas Broadcasting Worldwide.
