Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot make up the incredible global firestorm that InfoWars
and all of our listeners and viewers are at the very center of because believe me, you're
all on the team, you're all the same as the quarterback. Without you we're nothing and
we could lose this with you, we're going to win. First off, the globalists are panicking
because the Republicans were winning these special elections and primaries yesterday.
They're going into total, total meltdown mode even though big blue blood Republicans like
the Koch brothers have been backing the Democrats. Unbelievable. So we're going to be going over
all that. You have former Obama administration officials ordering Twitter to remove me and
Jack Dorsey is still standing firm. We've got Howard Dean saying I promote Nazism with
no link and saying take down the Nazi now. They're now accusing Jack Dorsey of things
he's never done saying that he's helping me Docs, Sandy Hook families. I never did that.
There's no link. Just because the New York Times says it doesn't mean it's true. The
New York Times is there to murder truth. The New York Times is truth's assassin continuing.
Here's the big one. Document cam shot please. Put it on screen from Twitter. Real Alex shows
we are number one trending app in news. Number one trending. Click on that for a larger image
please. Number one trending. Guess what we are total out of thousands of news apps.
We are number three total in the world surpassing CNN and Fox News. But guess what happened?
Go to my Twitter. Real Alex Jones. We have a video of it. In fact I'm going to do a demonstration
here so it's in HD. So I have to do where somebody show it. Google because we're also
number one in trending on Google and guess what? Number three on Google total. Google
does not list us. It does not show that the app exists. This is a three week old app Info
Wars official. We knew this was coming. I told you it was coming ahead of the midterms.
I thought it would maybe be in a few more weeks later. We are number one but it doesn't
show you who's number one. Oh above the Huffington Post and one American news. Isn't that just
interesting? It won't show you who won the football game. They won't show you who won
the wrestling match. They won't show you who won the Indy 500. Oh but then if you actually
go and click into it it comes up. Isn't that just special? How long till that's gone, gone,
gone. But what happens when the jury sees that? And what happens when the jury sees
this? Well they think by then they've stolen the election in 2018 and 2020 and they'll
have a tyranny here and it won't matter. But guess what CNN's been doing since they got
us taken off Facebook and everywhere else? Info Wars app overtakes CNN on charts. CNN
desperately lobbies Apple to censor. If that isn't tortuous interference, if that isn't
racketeering, if that isn't a restaurant, if CNN was a restaurant with feces on the
ground, roaches everywhere, E. Coli, Salmonella, food poisoning and we've got this glistening
restaurant with the most lavish chefs, great prices, parking lot overflowing, lines around
the corner and CNN's calling the fire marshal saying, get over there, there's too many people
in there and CNN's running around the street with bullhorns. There's roaches in there,
the size of a chihuahua. There's rats the size of a doberman. Don't eat there, you'll
get sick. Meanwhile, the windows are all gross, everything's falling apart. Nobody's
over here eating in a restaurant. CNN's got a cigarette here, they're not going, you
know what you do. When they close at midnight, you burn that joint down. We want Info Wars
off the air now. But oh, Trump criticizes, he's hurting the First Amendment. Oh, don't
criticize this, that's violating the First Amendment. That is the First Amendment, you
anti-American criminals.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Info Wars
Life. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax
fiber. Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system. Info
Wars Life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically
studied ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's 8-8 Wednesday, the 8th day of August 2018. I am Alex Jones, your host. My goodness,
it's 8-888. Haha! And InfoWars.com free official app is the number one trending app in the
world. Number one trending app on Google Android. Number one on iPhone and number one on other
platforms. But guess what happens when you go to the Google free store? Even with all
the paid apps, it's free and it's number one, but on most phones won't show up. They've
got it blocked on phones, but on some computers it comes up. And that's the same thing happened
when I was the number one podcast in Joe Rogan's history. It was never listed on iTunes. You
had to hand search it, but it was number one for a year and never put to the top because
it would have gotten even bigger. That's how they operate. They force feed what they want.
And CNN, after they brag, they help get us lobbied off YouTube, Google see listing us,
Facebook, everywhere else is bullying Twitter to take us down. And here's the headline from
Breitbart. InfoWars app overtakes CNN on charts. CNN lobbies app to censor. They say we want
it removed. We want it taken off. We don't want people to go to the digital store and
go in and get what they want. No, no, no. CNN's apps free too. But people don't want
it. It's only been out three weeks. CNN has had their apps for years. Our apps been out
three weeks and it's already number one in trending and already number three on Android
and on Apple. And it's trending within days to be number one total. And they aren't going
to allow that. Are they? 4.9 star review out of five. Everyone loves it. But that's okay.
CNN, why they're CNN, so when they're not lying to you about WMDs or pushing the Arab
Spring and helping kill millions of Iraqis, they're busy telling how hateful I am because
when the public questioned Sandy Hook, I questioned some of it as well and believe people have
a right to question. And then later years ago said I believed it happened. And so they
just lie and say that I said nobody died at Parkland and got me taken off YouTube till
YouTube went and looked and they said that was a mistake. And they took the strikes off
and put us back up. But three months later, right before the election, they were back
and they lied about us again and got us taken off. CNN knew more about my account with Google
than I did. They were in my account and talking about my account and how much money we made
a month off of it and what we were doing and what was going on. That's from a few days
when we were surpassing CNN. Now we're number one in trending and number three on Google
and on Apple. And within days, if not hours, we will be number one on total apps. Now are
they going to allow that? Are they going to allow that? No. And so in front of the world,
they're going to continue to attack us and they know that we're getting record traffic
to infowars.com and newswars.com. So MailChimp, we've been using for five, six years to send
out under all the rules properly our emails to you every day. Notice you haven't got emails
since yesterday. They said no, bye-bye. You can't use this. You're evil. And then you
can't comment on infowars.com or newswars.com when it's a very popular function with discus
or discuss. That's gone. They just said no, you violate our terms of service. Even though
it's their moderators and their system, that's why we liked it because it's hard to moderate
all this stuff. And so what they're saying is they violate their own terms. Now what
you're doing is you're racketeering. You're going to come out and you're going to deny
us services on our own website. Oh, but it's their own company, really. Samsung TVs say
when you buy this TV, you waive your rights. We can watch and listen to you in your home
and share it with third parties because we're our own company. How about all these congressmen
and women running for office, neck and neck with Democrats? Democrats can all advertise.
They can all be political on their Facebook pages and YouTube pages, but Republicans are
all being blocked as well. Is that just because they're a company now? Maybe AT&T will tell
the Republicans you can only use your telephones, you know, 10% of the time. You'd be like,
well, I pay for a service. You can't be letting me only use the phone 10% of the time and
letting the Democrats use it 100%. That's what this shadow banning and all this is.
So why did Jack Dorsey come out and say, Alex Jones hasn't violated our rules? Their rules
are nebulous. Their rules are globalist. Their rules are like SJW stuff where no one could
follow them. It's all subjective. What is hate speech? One man's hate speech is one
man's religion, vice versa. They let the Islamists do whatever they want, but if you
criticize it, you know, you get restricted. And Twitter knows that Trump came out a week
and a half ago. Let's put this tweet up there for the president. We can find it. And the
president said, you know, this shadow banning, I'm getting a lot of reports of Congress people
and other Republicans and conservatives very, very troubling. It's illegal going to do something
about it. So I believe the reason Jack Dorsey didn't join the rest of the pack in banning
me like he did Milo a few years ago is because he knows that Trump and this broadcast and
the Republican Congress is aware of what's going on. And suddenly days after Trump put
that tweet out, suddenly we were only restricted in some of our tweets. Most of them actually
went out. So instead of getting five retweets, we'd get 10,000 again. Now some that somebody
dubbed political or something, which everybody else can do, Trump crossing the swamp as George
Washington, stuff like that would still get blocked. So you can see they're in there still
trying to bend it to the Democrats, bend it, but they know they're getting washed, but
they think, hey, they can just make it three months and get Democrats in the impeachment
can start and then it'll be okay. But if they lose, if it doesn't work, there's going to
be hell to pay. But maybe not. The Republican Congress is so stupid when it comes to tech
and these issues so dumb, the terms they use on the, the Democrats are to the Democrat
Senator Murphy calling us the rotten tip of the iceberg saying ban all the conservatives
incredibly out in the open. He goes banning just one website isn't enough, which he's
admitting they're trying to ban our site itself. We need to ban them all. What he's really
banning is our multimedia, our reporters, our people, our guests. They're saying all
of you can't be on Facebook. All of you can't be on YouTube. All of you can't be on all
these platforms, iTunes everywhere else. And then they're testing to see, well, Joe Rogan
have me on to defend free speech. He was already telling me two weeks ago, he wants to be on
to have it heard the time now, Willie, or will he get scared and not thinking, keep his head
down? Because then later he'll lose his speech. And will everybody else have me on? Well,
the truth is people are lining up around the block to have me on their broadcast. People
invite me on all the time. I'm usually too busy, but I've been doing it, working really
hard doing a lot of interviews because I need to fight for free speech right now, not just
my speech, but everybody's because we're Domino number one, make no mistake. So Howard
D and all these Obama people, they're demanding we be taken down and they're now they're more
shrill because their socialist star, Alexandria Cortez had all the people she endorsed lose
their primaries. But yeah, when you tell folks you're a commie, doesn't work too well.
So they're now in panic mode as Republicans won in these key battleground areas that Soros
poured megatimes, hundreds of millions of dollars of illegal money into this stuff.
And they are swinging for the fences with brass knuckles. We're wearing, you know, 10
10 ounce gloves, but we're still defeating them, even though it's rigged because people
know what's going on and the jig is up. So news wars.com info wars.com go to info wars.com
for show sign up directly with us. It's one click to our podcast. Get the app, send it
to number one, whether they're going to ban it or not. Send it to number one info wars.com
forward slash show info wars.com forward slash app. Tell your neighbors, your friends, your
family, Hey, the battle for the first amendments now, they're trying to ban Alex Jones. They're
lying about it and they're demonizing him because they can take him down. They can take
everybody down. We need to stand with Alex Jones in free speech, not just go well, Alex
Jones is a bad guy. You mean the straw man? Well, the media says is a bad guy, but you
know, he still should have a speech. No, don't say I'm a bad guy. Go all the way, double
down, stand up because they'll be demonizing and lying about you next. We've got so much
huge news in the fight for the Republic and the fight for the world straight ahead. Spread
those links. Tell folks about those local stations right now. Who has the only raw living
whole plant hemp CBD extract in the world? Meta Hemp Solutions, a radically innovative
approach to hemp CBDs for exceptional results. Why? Because they contain absolutely all the
elements present in the original plant. All our hemp CBD products are independently lab
tested for potency and purity and manufactured in our FDA registered facility. Try it today.
10% off with coupon code GCN 10. Call 833-858-7500. That's 833-858-7500 or buy Meta Hemp Solutions
today at METAHempSolutions.com. That's Meta HempSolutions.com.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge. Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty
Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay
patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical
needs. Neighbor helping neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's
libertyoncall.org.
Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required. For a proprietary
value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center-cut,
fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
Living Water Bottle. It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and
saving you money. Made with surgical-grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases
the pH up to 9 to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it. Alkaline
water is healthier, tastes better, and can even boost energy. The Dillon Bottle makes
it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration. Get your Dillon Bottle
today at DYLN.CO. That's DYLN.CO.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques. Based on hundreds of years
of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've sourced only the best to provide you
with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee. Ancient Mayan knowledge
is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee
bean. Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just
what you need in the morning. You can even choose to start your morning healthier with
the immune support blend, infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support
the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
The real red pill plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products. That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one
of the newest fan favorite products, the real red pill plus. The red pill plus is an all-new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product. It features the same great formula that supports
your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a
powerful pregnant on base. The real red pill has become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products. Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
remonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way. It's got all the great stuff that real red pill has. It's also got the boost
at it. Get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones. This is America. This is 2018 three months out
from one of the most important elections in our history and affecting the entire world.
And finally, the Daily Mail Breitbart following Drudge's lead in the start of the week ago
are coming out to our defense saying this is dangerous or having top lawyers, top computer
scientist on the site on XM on their Breitbart show. I was listening to it for hours this morning
reading all their reports and they're going into the scientific history, how the racketeering is
working, how it's illegal, how they're building sites to monitor it, how Congress has got to
stop this right now, how this is trying to steal the election, true election meddling.
And now infowar's app overtakes CNN on charts. CNN lobbies Apple to censor. You heard me right.
Infowar shot up the charts. It's gone to number one in new apps trending. Number one and it's
number three set in days to go to number one total. Infowar's app overtakes CNN on charts,
CNN lobbies Apple to censor. This is America. This isn't the old Soviet Union. This isn't
communist China. And what do you expect? Google is on the air in China with their propaganda.
Google is moving back into China with their own censorship and media system. Apple has
its media company based there and is openly involved in mass censorship. Apple has officially
moved to China years ago, but made it official five months ago and became state run. And I'm
the only person hammering this, or at least I was. Now the information is coming out.
And Congress is talking about it. They're catching Chinese spies inside the National
Security Agency, inside the CIA, inside the FBI, inside the House Intelligence and Senate
Intelligence Committee offices of Dianne Feinstein and others. Obama and the globalist allowed
total penetration. Don't you remember when they kept having Chinese generals in the White House
for fundraisers and giving them millions of dollars illegally with suitcases of cash?
No one got in trouble. That was in 1995. 96. Can you imagine what it's like now? Total
penetration. They own our debt. They own Hollywood. They've gotten all the major defense secrets that
aren't completely classified. They have pushed for us to be censored. They go to Davos and
Bragg how they're going to take down America. And I keep telling you this, and that's why they
finally moved and jumped the shark to ban me off the Internet. Because the president is listening,
the campaign is listening, the military is listening, and they don't know what to do.
Well, let me give you a little newsflash. The military already knew all of this.
They had made the decision. It was too damning to tell the American people,
and they thought they could fix it by turning the economy back on and quietly pulling out
the traders that were managing the Chi-Com spies. Because it's kind of a wedding between
deep state, the globalists in China. Say China runs us. I mean, we have total penetration.
Then they started double crossing Obama the last two years of his administration. Remember?
So to keep some leverage on him, the deep state went, oh yeah, we'll pivot some ships and stuff
out to where you're at. And they said, we're building islands. Get out of the way. We've
compromised you. If you talk bad about us, we'll expose people on your payroll, on our payroll.
Remember that when China said a couple years ago before Trump got elected? They said,
if you keep giving us trouble with your pivot to Asia and all this China stuff, we'll start outing
spies. And then as if that wasn't a big enough red flare, 5000 red flares, as if that wasn't
totally insane. It got worse, didn't it? They came out yesterday and they said,
we already own Apple and control its factories. They've merged with us. We have all the codes.
We will hold it hostage and shut down production to your trillion dollar thing if you don't do
that. Well, it's not ours anyways. And yeah, do iPhones in my experience work better than most
droids? Okay, yeah. But the issue is Apple is as evil as it gets. It's the worst. And Google's
a close second moving to China. So what do they do when they're traders like this?
They say that America is run by Russians. When the Russians are tough, they can fight,
they can build rockets, they got missiles. They can't even keep their country running.
If Russia was in our business, I'd be on their ass, like I was during the whole uranium deals
with Hillary. That's wrong. But Russia's not the threat, ladies and gentlemen. That's how they
project onto Trump, a nationalist, that he's a trader. The New York Times, and I'm going to get
around to going through the two hours of audio and finding this clip. I want to play it today.
The New York Times had this report. It was working with this other Pulitzer prize winner.
That's like a Nobel Peace Prize. It means it's like an iron cross in my opinion,
you know, from Adolf Hitler. These assassins of truth, these twisters,
and the lady sat back in her chair and she went, tell me about how you work for RT.
And I went, huh? Yeah, you know, what they pay you, all this other stuff. And she was rolling
her eyes. When I was like, I've never worked for RT. I've never gotten money from RT. I've never
traveled with RT. I've been on RT in years. I'm like, I've been interviewed by the New York Times
probably 100 times. Do I work for you, lady? But that's how sick this has gotten, ladies and
gentlemen. And I mean, these people are in their own echo chamber of America hating.
They're in their own echo chamber of control. They're in their own echo chamber where they've
got to do this or they won't get their paycheck. So they believe this stuff.
And they get extremely radicalized until they don't even know what planet they're on, where
they scream Nazi scum and won't let Candace Owens, a beautiful black lady, a patriot, a liberal,
have her meal because she's pro-America. A bunch of weird white people screaming in a black lady,
you're a white supremacist. They're bullies. They're crazy. They're out of control. Now,
obviously, we need funding under this massive attack.
We need it extremely bad. And if you haven't gone to infowarstore.com, we got the best water
filters at the best prices, the best air filtration, all of it. We got the best non-GMA
early overseas. We got the best game changing supplements and they hate it when you fund us.
Plus, you need all of these. So we're launching a mega sale because of all of this. Stop the
censorship. Save info wars special. Stand up against the bullies. Stop the censorship. I think
I'll change the name of the special. Stop the big tech bullies. Save the internet. Save info wars
super special. The mainstream media, the dying dinosaurs doing everything they can to shut down
info wars. All the tech giants were to remove us from the internet. We're being depersed. We're
being disappeared. We're being put in an electronic ghetto. We're dropping our incredible product
prices to help you support the info war. Rainforest plus the incredible new tropic. Find out for
yourself. 40% off and free shipping. Supermobile vitalities. We're in mortality. Incredible cold
press herbs. No first time. It'll be no energy. People love it. 50% off plus free shipping.
Secret 12. Methacobalamin and acetylcobalamin. Rated in even BuzzFeed's own test as the top in
the country. 40% got so pissed when it happened. 40% off plus free shipping. Winter sun. Amazing
vitamin D3 of an organic vegan type. 40% off plus free shipping. DNA force plus 50% off plus free
shipping. Survival shield X to the good halogen. 40% off plus free shipping. Very hard to source
that. Very hard to get it. Alpha power. You want the super turbo? Oh my god. For libido, stamina,
energy. Warning when you take that. I mean it's seen as safe. Watch out. 50% off plus free shipping.
All super blue, fluoride free, colloidal silver, iodine, fortified toothpaste for adults and
children. Mouth washing more. 50% off plus free shipping. Ultimate fish oil combo. 40% off free
shipping. Bio druselini 50% off free shipping and more. Support us now. Be part of history.
infowarstore.com. infowarstore.com. Gap McGinnis coming up. Gap McGinnis.
This is Jessica Arman, founder of My Magic Mud. Our team helped organize a successful
effort to remove fluoride from our city's water supply. This is our passion. My Magic Mud Oral
Care purifies and brightens your smile naturally. GCN listeners, please support my family business
by purchasing our products from your local health food store. We're also available at CVS Pharmacy
or visit us at mymagicmud.com and take 10% off now with coupon code GCN 10.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At Heart and Body Extract, we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart. Don't just take my word for it. Check out all of the success stories at HBextract.com
or to order call 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. HBextract.com. Don't risk it when you can take
charge of it. Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you
spread the videos, you are changing the world? It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Globalist.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying,
that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the
world. And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the
word. You are the InfoWars. And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important
than ever that everyone go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's
no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name
it. And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the Renaissance
and we are winning. We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage. And that's why we need you to
go to the site now, if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please
consider a contribution. 25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to
strangle our first amendment rights. Hey, how would you like to take InfoWars with you wherever you
go? Well, now you could do just that with the new official InfoWars.com. And here's the best part.
It is absolutely free at the Apple Store and Google Play. You can join the InfoWars today.
Check it out right now at InfoWars.com forward slash app now. It's the InfoWars official app
taken on the globalist at point blank range. And with your help spreading it and with your help
downloading it, we are unstoppable. We knew it was coming. The whole thing was for me leg. First
demonize InfoWars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that,
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and Islamophobia. And then voila, two weeks later ban InfoWars completely off of dozens
of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds. Go to infowars.com
forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing
your podcast in, it'll pop up there. It's also critical to go to infowars.com forward slash
newsletter and give us your email so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and
articles on our own platform. But whatever you do, tell folks about InfoWars.com forward slash
show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others
with the information and point out, this is the verboten info. This is what they don't want you to see.
You are listening to an InfoWars.com frontline report. It's Alex Jones.
Gavin McInnis, the creator of Vice, filmmaker, syndicated talk show host at CRTV.com.
So this will be the end of the hour. We have a bunch of other guests and I want to open the phones
up and you're taking what's happening. But make no mistake, people are now finally getting it.
Congress didn't understand how the shadow banning was happening, how Google was delisting people,
how the different forms of algorithms strangulation was happening ahead of trying to steal the
election. That's what this is, is election meddling by big tech, the Democrats and others.
But now they've jumped the shark. They had hearings in the last few months where the
Republicans just couldn't find their butt with both hands and it green-lighted
the intensified censorship, not just of me, but everybody else. There's big algorithms,
Breitbart's been doing a great job with some of their scientists and computer people
and some of the groups in Europe that can track the different types of censorship,
not just shadow banning. And they've dialed it back 50% basically back during Hillary,
during the campaign two years ago. And then it went up to about 80% about a month ago and now
it's gone about 93% on average. And I gave me those numbers before Facebook admitted,
oh, we already dialed back conservatives, 80% quit bitching at us. Because I could see Google
analytics, I could see the Facebook analytics were kicked out all that now. And it's just like
space age. And you could see when they put the controls in, you go straight down.
Someone could go down like this or something. They just flip a switch. It's like when Hillary
lost, Alexa just took 2,000 conservative sites and did 80% reduction in them too. It wasn't like
the traffic was down, but sponsors looked at it and went, well, your traffic's down. It's like,
no, I'm not. It's like when they told Mark Twain, he was dead. He said, no, I'm not. Or it's like,
you know, if you hit me in the face and I punch you and you fall down and you look at me and you
say, I've killed you. And I'm like, it looks like I'm still standing here, buddy. So they've tried
a lot of different fraud, but they're desperately moving now. They're trying to bully Jack Dorsey
into removing me. Let me ask Gavin again, this is a smart cookie. Why do you think they're doing
all this now? Do you think they'll get away with it? Because folks seem to be figuring out that
I'm just patient zero as the beta test going into the election. And if they win, they're really going
to crack down even more and I guess solidify this. And why do you think Dorsey hasn't banned me when
like 15 platforms, I can't list them all, webchimp, discuss, not just iTunes, not just Facebook,
not just YouTube, just everywhere. And now it appears they're deplatforming, deleting other
people that put my new videos up. They grab. So I mean, this is, this is like beyond what you hear
about in China. It's pretty amazing. What does Gavin McInnis think?
I think that Jack is smarter than these other CEOs and he knows that this is bad for the left.
I don't think Jack wants Trump to win. I don't think he likes you, but at least he has the tenacity
to realize that when you shut down Alex Jones, you make him stronger. You have the number one
app. I talked to you yesterday. It was a number four app. Jack is smart enough to know that just
trying to kill you only makes you stronger. We do now, as you speak, is actually gone.
It is now number one in news on all platforms, but most Google devices won't show you that it's
number one. I know it's the weirdest thing I've ever seen. You scroll and as you're scrolling,
it won't let you go past two. They're so bad at this. You know, I got to hand it to Stalin. He was
much more efficient at fascism than these guys. This is amateur hour at the Apollo.
I agree with you. Let me ask you this question. It's a parallel to three African countries in
the last 30 years have kicked the minority white population out, taken the farms. Over
then a few years, they're starving to death. It's in Bobway, many other examples. Well,
the racist communist leaders of South Africa are now kicking most of the whites out, taking their
farms, and famine has now kicked off just one year into the new communist government. Wow.
I mean, you'd think again, just like them kicking conservatives and libertarians off the web,
and then their stock tanks, hundreds of billions at Facebook, you think that South Africa,
when nations bordering them, have done the exact same thing and starved to death in mass
and collapse, you think they'd say, hey, let's leave these productive Christian farmers here.
You know what? This is a lot like your case in the sense that everyone has this sort of
fortune cookie little note explaining what the story is, and it's not even close to the truth.
So no one's seen your show that wants to ban it. They just heard rumors about conspiracy theories
and you attacking kids and all this stuff. They've never actually watched the show.
Same with Ann Coulter. They hate her books. They never actually read one sentence
in any of her books. It's all based on the rumors, the mystique. It's a game of telephone.
And with South Africa, the rumor is whites came in, stole all the land,
and now the blacks are saying, we'd like our land back at some point. That sounds reasonable.
I mean, they had apartheid. That was mean. That's not the truth at all. The story there is that
there is one communist party that is oppressing everyone in South Africa, including blacks,
including other tribes, and especially including white farmers. And these national socialists,
just like the Nazis, in fact, they have a tenant now, land seizure without compensation. That is
literally word for word, as Dinesh D'Souza points out in his new movie, Death of a Nation,
that is literally word for word, a Nazi doctrine. So the rumors you're hearing about South Africa,
that it's about, you know, white black people getting revenge for whites. No, the whites bought
that land. That was all acquired justly. There was no one really there when the boars settled
South Africa. But no, you've done your study because just like the boars were kind of like Amish
Light, you know, most of the Amish actually are German or Swiss, but they're very similar.
So I've read several four or five books about the whole history of South Africa. And as you said,
almost no one was there except, quote, what they call the Aborigines or the natives or the Bush
people. And then when the whites came in 400 years ago and built wells and infrastructure,
there were giant migrations moving in for the work in the diamond mines and the fields. And so
they built this whole big giant thing. No one was there, kind of like, you know, Texas. There
might have been a couple thousand Native Americans and I'm not saying it's good, what happened to
them. But everybody wants to get here now because what we built and now the Communist Party that
Mandela was part of takes over, makes it all racial. And now you've got the super Christian,
9% Christian, you know, of the population of Christian farmers that are in the middle of
nowhere, you know, with lions and King Cobras and everything. And all the local blacks are like,
please don't get rid of them. We love working with them. But that's all about to be torn out.
Then the Communist will communalize everything and it'll all collapse like happened in China.
They're almost out of water in Cape Town. This always happens with communism. It hurts the
people. It's purporting to help and leaves everyone starving. They are going to be starving,
something like 85%. I forget the exact number, but it's remarkably high of these farms they took
take over, cease to be farms. They just subsist farm a few beans for themselves and all the crops
die. So they're running out of food, running out of water based on communist greed. And people are
going for the fortune cookie version, which is it's just a minor land transaction. You know,
you keep seeing this again and again. And what happens? People starve. And this is what's happening
with you. They're going to say, no more Alex Jones, no more me, no more Candace Owens are
going after now. This is a woman who dared to say blacks don't have to be conservative. I mean,
liberal. And they're going to end up with much less media, with just state run media.
You're absolutely right. We'll come back and play that video. I should have gotten to this
in the last few days. I mentioned it. Antifa protesters that cost conservative Charlie Kirk and
Candace Owens at Philadelphia Cafe. This happens to me. It happens to Milo. And they literally
start screaming Nazi. Howard Dean has called me a Nazi and called for Twitter to ban me.
Folks, everyone knows the Nazis hate me. Everybody knows my ex-wife is part Jewish. Everybody knows
that I'm not anti-Israel. But they just keep calling me a Nazi. And then they're screaming at
a black woman screaming Nazi, Nazi, Nazi. These people are insane. Where's it going to go, Gavin?
Well, and they were, you know what they were screaming? They were screaming and white supremacy
and F white supremacy at a black woman. And then some of the, the alt left say, no, no, no,
they were screaming at a Charlie Kirk. No, they were not screaming at a Charlie Kirk. They had
a bullhorn in Candace's face that she had to physically tear away with her hands as they poured
water on Charlie Kirk and screamed like hyenas. You know, they're all rich kids. And I, you know
what I was thinking the other day? I'm becoming scared of the left. And I don't mean scared like
Tony Soprano is out to get me. I mean scared like a psychotic ex-girlfriend who's a stalker
and is about to get out of jail. Well, I'm afraid of, I agree. One of these people hits me. They're
going, they're going to get it back. And I'm afraid of what I'm going to do to them. We'll be right
back. We've got McGinnis from CRTV.com. And on Twitter, you have the underscore McInnis. Stay with us.
Compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain,
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your
family. With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for
clean and refreshing water all over your home. Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your
first water filtration purchase, or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products,
we have it in Fuller's life. It'd take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's
stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals and
the vitamins, the amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the
super blue colloidal silver and iodine four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune
gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine,
super high quality silver and a lot more without you. We couldn't do it. So thank you all for
remembering info or store.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake. It's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you
so much for being part of the second American Revolution. In Fuller's life is launching its
newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other
compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so
much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life,
as well as Myco ZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut. So this is
the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality
products at the same time. And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out
in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with. It's sold out for another
month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way
with this fiber. Get yours today in Fuller's life.com. Choose to take control of your chemistry
with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health. Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source
of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work
together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this
super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
I can now announce, it's true, the first show I said we were number one on trending and number
three on overall news apps, we're now number one on the Android and number one on Apple.
So that just happened. We are number one against apps that have been up there for years like the
Huffington Post and CNN. They are flipping out and just this morning I saw three reports,
I couldn't even watch them all, but the articles on CNN saying ban Alex Jones off of iTunes apps
and off of Android. Gavin, I hate to make this about me, but this is getting absolutely, totally
insane. I launched an app three weeks ago, figuring all this was coming up a new one.
This happens and it has got 4.9 stars. I gotta tell you, I think they jump the
shark like the NFL taking a knee and losing 40% of their viewers or Hollywood losing 35% of their
revenue going out against Trump. Like you said, they're destroying themselves. They can't stop.
Where does this go? Well, it goes with starvation, with information starvation. It goes with
a socialist country that starts to eat itself. Like we're seeing this in Canada,
we're seeing, we saw this in Britain. They open the borders to mass immigration and they say,
replace this population. I want people who owe me one. And then that's the, the country's gone.
And this is very unique to America, this whole idea of different voices. The Brits actually
started it by encouraging all these different newspapers down the East Coast. And there was,
they said, make it right wing, make it left wing, have debates. And the next thing, you know,
we go, this is fun. This is colorful. This is interesting. This is, this is humorous that
we're using sarcasm and irony. And I'm enjoying myself. Let's start a whole country on this
and kick the British out. And they did. And now we're getting back to this monarchy mentality
where we can't have conspiracy theories. What the hell is the matter with a conspiracy theory?
That's called a theory about someone conspiring. And you had a bunch of conspiracy theories about
how they were going to try to, the government was going to try to de-platform you. Turns out
that's not a theory anymore. It's a fact. This is like a war on curiosity, fun, humor. It's a war
on color. It's a war on what makes America great. Well, you're right. I kind of self-censored myself
Sunday morning. I get up. They say a drone has shot missiles at Maduro. I watch all the footage.
I go, it's probably a false flag. He's a dictator. He's teetering on collapse. Brazils have to close
its border because millions are trying to flee, just like we're having to. Oh, but they're not
racist when they do. And so I didn't do anything on it. And then suddenly I read the mainstream
news. They go, the U.S. government thinks he staged it or it didn't even happen, or a gas
main blew up in a building across the street. The point is, known liars, you don't believe them.
You question them. It doesn't mean that you're sure it didn't happen or did. You have a right
to question known liars. And that's the point. But what about the fact that four million people
have already fled Venezuela in the last six months? And now millions are trying like zombie
apocalypse to flee socialism into Brazil that has its own problems. Brazil is going the way
of Trump in their election. So they're trying to ban free speech. I mean, this is crazy.
Yep. It's a disturbing pattern. And you know what they say the left says to that, right? They go,
no, no, no, no. Venezuela, Cuba, Russia, China, Cambodia, North Korea, none of that is the kind
of socialism I want. I want Finland. I want Norway. I want all these Northern European countries.
And you go, they're on the way down. They're using the money they had when they were free market.
And they're literally spending their grandparents and their parents' money. So that's not a model
we want to mimic. And this whole idea of socialism being the future of the Democratic
Party, which many Democratic politicians will proudly say, is the end of America.
And the thing that scares me about that is they don't just want to change America,
like the classical liberals wanted to alter some bad things. And I think they were wrong.
But at least they had a plan. This is just, let's burn it to the ground. They don't want to debate.
They don't want the truth to come out. They don't want to, they don't want to, you know,
get to the, to something that's more a meritocracy. They just want to destroy everything.
They want to burn your house. And if they die too, that's fine. They don't care. Like Bill
Marr says, let's destroy the economy so we can get rid of Trump. That's right. Gavin,
let me ask you this question. Alexandria Cortez, everyone she endorsed lost in primaries to
other Democrats. All the Democrats so far have lost these special elections last night.
I think this is going to send them into even more shrill, like you said, obsessed,
crazy old girlfriend, fatal attraction mode. Yeah, it really is. And the other thing they
don't get is that no one agrees with them. Millennials love socialism because they never got a paycheck
and they didn't see how much to take out. Remember your first paycheck when you're working at the
gas station and you get it back and you go, what? They're taking that much out of every single check?
Where is it going? And you're in the lowest tax bracket and they're taking a third out of it.
Yes. Yeah, my, the amount of tax I pay has been going up every year my entire life. And I can't
take it anymore. I'm mad. Well, I've gone to big tax lawyers and top ones and they go, listen,
Alex, you know the amount of money you have isn't that much anyways. You can't do stuff offshore.
All the big boys are allowed to, all the elites go to the special law firms
that are run by former attorney generals and then they all pay zero tax. That's part of the elite
club and they all go offshore like Bezos and Tim Cook. These people admittedly almost pay no taxes
but they lobby all day to raise taxes on people like you and me. You have to try to open a company,
have a restaurant, a car dealership. You got 50, 60, 70 employees. The way they do all the stuff
now, getting rid of the loopholes, I pay federally 50%. So I'm trying to bring all this money in
constantly, you know, and they're calling it profit when I'm buying infrastructure. It's
total screw job. People don't know. And America knows that. Middle America fly over states everywhere
outside of New York and LA and we just saw in Ohio. Middle America understands that jobs are really
the only thing that matters and Trump is providing jobs. So they're scared because they're scared
that you and I and Trump are making the right seem a lot more attractive, a lot more fun.
We have more millennials identifying as right wing than ever before, or at least not since the early
80s. And Generation Z. That was my next question. Your proud boys, great patriots, they call them
white supremacists, about a third of them are big handsome black guys and Hispanic folks.
But what was going on? Like the poor little Hispanic guy who has a neurological disorder,
they beat him up in Berkeley. He's fought back and kicked their ass. He knows he's on a walker.
I mean, these are the images they can't stand. And those are all the videos I think were the
last straw that had millions of views despite their shadow ban on our Facebook and our YouTube
fan pages. So they panic when we had four reporters covering the event in Portland, the event in
Berkeley where thousands showed up. The only antifa got arrested. They were such scum. And when
your crowd and the prayer vigil crowd was more diverse, probably about demographically,
was more diverse, 15% black, about 20, 30% Hispanic. And they were all hugging each other
and loving each other. This, I think, sent them into conniption fits in the poll show it.
Double the number of Hispanics in African Americans are supporting
Trump and Republicans than they were just six months ago. This is a landslide. I don't know
what they're going to do. Yeah, they hate that their pet blacks have left the plantation.
And you'll notice they don't talk about David Duke or Richard Spencer or avowed white nationalists.
They throw that around at people like you and me because they know it's not true and they have to
do something to sink us because they know we have this massive appeal. They know we're funny.
They know where you had the tinfoil hat on your head. You're being hilarious.
But they go, I can't show that. I have to push the big lie and get these people out.
Like, you know, it's a great example of all this bullshit propaganda. Excuse my language.
Dinesh D'Souza, he has 0% critics rating on rotten tomatoes and 90% audience rating. I mean,
doesn't that sum up the massive agenda the left has? Say that again. Say that again.
The little imperiums, you know, who give fake ratings, whoever pays them, that's well known
for terrible movies. The people, the establishment has a total negative rating for
D'Souza's amazing film, but the public's 90%. It shows the fraud.
It's a massive giant gap. And Charles Murray talked about this in coming apart.
We have a massive gap now between the elites and the Midwest. And at least,
you know, at least the monocle wearing elites of the past, they knew they were distant.
They had their top hats and they had their scented anchorages they put on their face
when they walked by the poor. These dummies, these rich elites at CNN and the globalist,
they actually think they understand middle America and they are in touch with what we want.
No, we don't think of speeches tear. We don't care. You talk about hate speech,
like they say free speech is good, but it doesn't include hate speech. It includes everything,
dummy. We don't want rules. We want total freedom. And the more you push these rules
and regulations, the more you ostracize young and a great example is what just happened in
full wars. Number one app, period in news on both Apple and Android and CNN is freaking out,
saying, remove us. How obvious is that? We're back with five more minutes. Well,
Gavin McGinnis, we have other special guests joining us. He's the host of get off my lawn.
It's great. My son watches it. His whole school watches it, which scares the hell out of the
left. I mean, took my daughters to camp this year. Yeah, ages 14 and 10 and like a third of the
a third of the trunks had like gab McGinnis stickers or or Stephen Crowder stickers or
info or stickers. I mean, the left is scared. We'll be right back info wars.com, news wars.com,
spread those links. Years ago, info wars life created the powerful Michael ZX formula to
help you combat internal yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the
environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your
gut health. Michael ZX plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural
formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms. There's
no better product to help your body fight back. Michael ZX plus helps support a healthy microbial
balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can
cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including
grapefruit seed extract, pal d'arco bark and grape seed extract. Our formula is fueled by
ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties. Pick up a bottle of
the new and improved Michael ZX plus today at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world. It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist. It is you,
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against the
peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world. And that's why
you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the info
war. And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email. So there's no
way the sensors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name
it. And so now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the renaissance
and we are winning your listening to the Alex Jones show. Yeah, McGinnis love him on CR TV
and the great work he does on get off my lawn. It's on his show yesterday. All the great work
they're doing over there and just all the talent they've got is amazing. Makes me feel good to
know there's other good people out there like brudge report.com and Dr. Savage having understand
defended First Amendment. But since we mentioned this, let's play Candace Owens and her sidekick
there from the great folks at turning point USA. And they're just having food to cafe in Philadelphia
after giving a speech. And this is what little white twits do to feel good. They found Nazi
sympathizers. They're like the French resistance. And so they're going to get them. Here it is.
All because we're eating breakfast and we have to be conservative. Have a wonderful day.
Enjoy your capitalist breakfast.
What's up with that big government?
If you're a radio listener, which I always have to remember, we're mainly radio.
You know, trying to censor us. The radio is like the real power of this broadcast. It's still there.
It's wonderful. It's big. Tell folks about stations. You've got a bunch of skinny Jean
people with their $800 iPhones sitting there having their coming of age thing sticking
megaphones in a black woman, a smart good looking black woman. I think Candace Owens is super sexy
if I wasn't married. And they're in her face and she's pushing the thing out of their face to try
to blow her eardrums out. And they're all these skinny Jean yuppies running around calling her
by Nazi's bullhorns in their face, which should blow your eardrums out calling. So, so this is
just bizarro, but this is what it's like everywhere. Gavin, I know, but when they try to hit you,
you actually hit back. Where do you think this is all going?
A civil war riots, a giant Ferguson from coast to coast, every major city on fire after the
election. We've already seen traces of that. That's right. You think you think when when we
win these midterms, they're going to go ape without a doubt, without a doubt. Listen to them.
F the bourgeoisie to know who's to blame for all of this brainwashing is academia. These kids get
pushed Marxism from kindergarten up. But when they hit college, it goes full board. I was talking
to Michael Rectamwald, who is called anti PC professor. And he's suing NYU right now. And he
was telling me that when the first year when they start out, there is a bit of variety. There's like
50, 50, right, left kind of Marxist. And then year two, you start seeing it 70, 30. By the end of it,
there's only maybe 5 to 10% would dare stray from the far left orthodoxy. And within that 95% that
is far left, there are half of them extreme, full on communist radicals that want to burn
mansions to the ground and take over the country with what like they don't talk about
talk about socials in these kids. They have a quote. They say full communism. By the way,
I want to get that professor on. He's the one that talks about leftist don't lecture me about
how you're high and mighty. You're the biggest killers in history. I want to get him on because
we've got to launch a counter offensive. This is the counter offensive. I just hope Trump gets
really really pushy here because when he said something to Twitter, they backed off. He needs
to say it to Google. He needs to say it to everybody else. I've got a report to him. Don't
you agree that we have to get the Republican Congress and everybody right now to make this
a campaign issue and tell the tech giant, stop it now. Yes, there's collusion going on here,
but it's not Russia. It's big tech and big business and the government. So the government
has to undo this. I mean, this is corruption from top to bottom. And they have to say,
we don't let big business and big government work together because that's called fascism.
It is Gavin McGinnis. You're on fire. Great work there with get off my lawn at CRTV.
We got some of your boys coming on. Rufio Panman coming up and Will Johnson straight ahead.
Thank you so much, Gavin. Thanks for having me. That was good. We'll be back.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean,
I cannot say it any clear. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine. And you cannot beat that for
children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad,
the colloidal silver and iodine as well. infowarslife.com or triple A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are,
and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
You are listening to an infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, the communists have taken the symbol the last 150 years of clench fish. No, that's our
symbol. We're not looking for a fight, but if you came to want to have one, you're going to get one
politically, economically and physically. We don't start fights, but we finish them. And I got to
tell you, beautiful things are happening right now. And I expected to be attacked. I expected to be
banned. I saw them softening me up, getting me ready as the beta test. I'm not important enough to
have a thousand articles a day, on average, the last year and a half lying about me and my family,
and I mean, trying to destroy my life. New York Times reporters stalking me for years on end,
Buzzfeed, Soros people. I mean, let me tell you something. I don't get into all this because it's
James Bondi and it's crazy. And it doesn't intimidate me. It makes me use the energy
because I realize if we lose, they win. And so it's not like I have a death wish or something.
It's the opposite. The death wish would be if I wanted them to control things and run things,
it'd be like giving up. And my soul only feels good when I'm opposing these people. And let me tell
you, my soul feels good when we've got folks like Will Johnson of UnitedAmericaFirst.com.
And I sat there for hours on Saturday and hours on Sunday, hearing him speak in the live feeds
and then doing these big feeds we did here before we're banned on Facebook and everywhere.
It turned out hundreds of thousands watching live and millions watched it total.
Of him and Owen Schreuer and the rest of the great patriots out there just in a love fest
for freedom, for free speech, 20 plus Antifa arrested for crimes. No patriots arrested.
And seeing Hispanic and black and white and Asian Americans and women all together loving America
and articulate and even if somebody had muscle dystrophy and he was on a walker and got beat
up with a Hispanic guy who fought back, he was a beautiful person. And just the light in their
eyes, they're so alive. And let me tell you something, the Antifa and the left, I knew, I said Sunday,
I looked at Rob doing, I said, they're going to ban us for this. And he goes, what do you mean?
We're all big. I said, this is just too good. I mean, the nastiness of the other side and this
and the fact that they can't shut us down. And I said, and the Republicans are going to win
these special elections next next Tuesday. It's just, but it's going to get a lot worse.
And when they saw all those diverse people but unified by America and freedom and Christianity
and the light in their eyes, they crapped a brick. And so people are like, oh, you're getting
persecuted, you're getting kicked off everything. I have faith in God, but I've been fired before
when I wouldn't sell out and wouldn't lie. So selling my soul out ain't happening.
When my soul feels good about something, I follow that. When it feels bad, I get away from it.
And I feel good doing this and watching Will Johnson and others made me feel so good.
And then when they've done all this and lied about me, I mean, they're following me all the
time, but I leave here, I'll be followed. I'm stalked constantly. Just once, you know, we're
dealing with criminals who have a will to dominate us. They lust after running our lives. Real men
and women who love God and have their own life, they don't want to run their own lives. They got,
I mean, they don't want to run your life. They're busy with their own lives.
So Will Johnson, I want to salute you while all this is happening. I just got to say,
great job. We'll get your take on what's happening. What happened this weekend?
You know, we've got the crew back. We're uploading HD videos to Twitter. We're going to start up
every day saying the info wars.com censored video list on our own server on info wars.
So everybody can grab it. It's free to air copyright free. There'll be a message at the
end. This is free to use wherever you are. And Rufio, we're getting Rufio on here in a minute
as well. We just got him lined up for this segment and the next and then a little bit more
into the next or hopefully the whole hour. Rufio obviously out there when they attack
him, he just with precision takes them out. But this point we're at where we launched at
three weeks ago, info wars official. And it was at the top 40 in the first two weeks.
So we have a big audience. It went to number one in news today. And what is CNN doing saying,
ban him, ban him? How villainous can it get here? Will Johnson of UnitedAmericanfirst.com.
And of course, Rufio Panman, we're going to next with you, Rufio Panman on Twitter for now.
What do you make of this historic timer in my brother? I think we are winning. And see,
I think that's the main reason why they want to shut you down as much as possible,
because we are winning. They know for a fact that because we expose
Antifa in the left for the hateful stuff that they were doing, that they knew you would be
talking about it. See the mainstream media, they're not saying anything about it because there were
no people that are Trump supporters, patriots that were arrested, that were causing any violence.
So we couldn't give them anything that they wanted. So they knew that you would expose the truth.
So they want to shut you down because they know so many people pay attention to info wars. So
they had to do everything they can to shut it down. But see, I personally, I think it's going
to backfire on them. So many people are waking up to what they did to info wars to Alex Jones,
that it's going to it's waking people up like never before. And it's going to just bring a
storm to them. I've talked to multiple people, they say, you know, I really don't agree with
Alex Jones on everything that he says, but them banning him the way that they did was completely,
ultimately out of place. And they said, you know what, I'm they're picking up, they went to the
app. They said, I'm going to get the app because I want to see what he has to say. Multiple people
said, Will, have you got the app? Have you got the app? I said, yes, of course I have the app.
But so many people, they said what they're doing to info wars is just taking it to another level.
And it's beyond belief. It's like living in Nazi Germany. They are literally doing book burning
with digital books. And info wars is the their pilot program to see if they can do it to shut
people up and see how many people going to cry about it. I agree with you. And my concern is
I literally got tears in my eyes watching these rallies and the police who'd been helping them
in both places finally did the right thing, arrested them, put their names out because
they dox the police. Well, your name's going out there. And I think that also freaked them out
that even in their blue city strongholds, where we know they've been ordered to help Antifa,
the police are finally going, No, we're not doing it. Yeah, exactly. You know what? I have to give
credit to the Portland police. They did a phenomenal job by keeping the Antifa. No, I agree. But I'm
saying the last two times they didn't. So I'm saying the exact. Yes. Yeah, exactly. You know,
and this time they did, but they wanted to come and harm us. You know, there was reports that they
were actually shooting marbles over the police officers at us because they get because they
could not get to us. So they kept going, kept going. And then all of a sudden the police department
started throwing flashbangs at them because they were getting so frustrated because they
could not harm us. Have you ever noticed every time the left has a rally or a march or a gathering
that you never, ever hear about conservatives showing up throwing explosives at them, trying
to hit them with rocks, trying to hit them with sticks, throwing bottles with urine and feces
in it. You never hear about it. It's only when we have a rally that these leftists show up to try
to harm us. Where's the media on that? How come the media doesn't tell the truth on that? People
should really ask that question. Why doesn't it happen that way? Then they always try to bring
up Charlottesville. They always try to bring up Charlottesville, but even Charlottesville was not
supposedly a leftist rally. You're right. We're going to go to Brighton and come back with you in
a few minutes and with Rufio. We're confident, but I don't want to be too confident. You see
Stelter saying Trump's being violent to the media saying they're liars. CNN's calling for all of us
to be shut down. He's calling for no free speech. He wants info. It's completely banned. All of them
do it. CNN, they want our app banned because we're having, they've been up for years. We already have
more than them in three weeks. That's so ridiculous. They don't want us on the field. They don't want
our race car on the track. They don't want us in the ring. They, they, they, they're archetypal
criminal scumbag wimps, but they keep hyping that somebody's going to attack the media,
somebody's going to attack the media. And I really think in my gut, that's the only card
they got left is to wind up some loon to attack them, to make them the victims when they're the
ones actually calling for violence. Right. They're screaming that someone's going to attack the media.
Aren't they attacking you? Is this not attack on info wars? How is this not an attack? Call
me a Nazi. Call me a Nazi. Yes. What are you saying? It's so bad that they have to ban you.
They're not saying anything. That's not true. They are afraid of you. They're afraid of you
because here it is. You're talking to a black male that has nothing against you. You have nothing
against me. They don't want that narrative. They want you to be a white supremacist because you're
not exactly the leftist for all these Vanderbilt's like Anderson Cooper. They're totally uncomfortable
around everybody. We're just real people. The chemistry is there. They know it. And they're
afraid of the chemistry with all of us. It's just one freedom. We just want the American dream. We
want freedom. We don't want to live in Venezuela. We want freedom. We don't want to be racist.
Stop telling us we're racist all day. Stop turning us to communist. We'll be back with
Rufio to give his take on this and more will Johnson. We're going to open the phones up
in about 15 minutes. So you talk both to these heroes and they are a lot of courage standing up
10 to one before this last rally. We outnumbered them and that's why they're scared. This is
Jessica Armand, founder of My Magic Mud. Our team helped organize a successful effort to
remove fluoride from our city's water supply. This is our passion. My Magic Mud oral care
purifies and brightens your smile naturally. GCN listeners, please support my family business
by purchasing our products from your local health food store. We're also available at
CVS pharmacy or visit us at MyMagicMud.com and take 10% off now with coupon code GCN10.
We're called 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653, goberky.com.
new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com. Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent
killer in the U.S. What if I told you for just 54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease
naturally at heart and body extract. We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart. Don't just take my word for it. Check out all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com or to
order call 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. HBXTrack.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made from
high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, l-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to bring you
a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
5 or top 10 news feeds. Go to infowarslife.com, the fourth slash show, subscribe to the free
podcast, just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up
there. It's also critical to go to infowarslife.com, the fourth slash newsletter, and give us your
emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own
platform. But whatever you do, tell folks about infowarslife.com, the fourth slash show, how they
can download the free android and iphone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the
information and point out this is the verboten info, this is what they don't want you to see.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the central Texas command center and the heart of the resistance.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Hollywood is killing itself. They've had the
Hollywood screen actors, you'll vote to remove Trump's star officially, replaced with Kerry
Fisher. Who wants to be on your dirty Hollywood, you know, homeless feces, needles everywhere,
but they kept attacking it and attacking it. So the West Hollywood city council
has been asked, he voted to ask Hollywood chapter of commerce to remove Donald Trump's star from
the Hollywood fame. At least there's a chance somebody's going to impeach his star. Wow,
that's a bet Miller. These people are disconnected jokes. And we are joined by the great will
Johnson of United America first dot com and Rufio panman, who again gets attacked over and over
again two, three, four to one, the guys with metal batons and the defense himself in flawless victory
knockouts. Mike siren, which is coming up. We've also got Vox day coming on to get into all this.
So I wanted to go to a panman and also will Johnson jump in any time. This is just a crazy,
crazy time to be alive. And I think what happened out there this weekend is one reason we've been
banned. I think our multicam coverage of it, but Rufio, give us your take just on the state of
the world, the special elections with the Republicans just one again, where you think all
this is going, what you think the commies and Soros funding them are going to do next.
Well, it's interesting after this last weekend seeing how it almost seems like the attacks
verbally have kind of quieted down because there's not there's not very much they can say. They've
just kind of been attacking platforms like yours. There's a lot of people that have been getting
their Facebook accounts shut down and stuff like that. So it's kind of gone from the verbal attacks
and trying to convince everybody and push the narrative to just straight out shutting down
the anybody who's right at Bernie Sanders pretty much. So where I see things going is
you're going to start seeing a lot more people like the Patriots show up like last weekend
and it's just not going to get reported. And so we start just showing up to these news outlets
and demanding that they start accurately representing what's going on. I just love how
months ago to recap the story, they beat up women and children and nobody was there for a little
prayer event. They won't even let Christian conservatives, anybody go out in public.
And then you guys came a minority of you, they attacked, you drove them off. But numbers wise,
it looked to me like you guys had bigger numbers than the commies. Is that accurate or what happened?
What are the numbers estimated in Portland? What are the numbers estimated in Berkeley?
You know, the numbers in Portland were, I've never seen anything like it before. It was probably one
of the most beautiful things I've ever seen. I mean, we waited pretty much all day just waiting
for more bus loads of people to come in. And I think that the opposing side felt good at first
until they started to see that we were just continually busing people in. And, you know,
that's a huge, that's a huge message. I mean, that's pretty much, you know, Joey's mission,
to just keep having these rallies and keeping persisting. And obviously the optics from the 30th,
you know, is pretty much why all those people came out. I mean, we had them from all over the
place, New York. And I mean, there's probably boys along. We had just about every state represented
it seemed like. But as far as Berkeley numbers go, it looked like it was pretty thick there as well.
I know that they have. That's right. You were there. You guys weren't at the other one. You were
another event. Let me ask you that question then. What do you think they're going to do next? Like
you said, they've gone underground now and their daddy's back at the big San Francisco run tech
companies, the imperial elite, the cultural elite as WikiLeaks called it. What are they going to do
now? Well, I think they're going to, I think Antifa on their street level is going to keep
trying to find any weakness they can. And they're going to kind of, they're going to attack us
whenever they can. But I think they're going to start, they're going to really push to shut down
all of our platforms, shut down our voice any way they can. And, you know, obviously with you,
you're going through that right now. But, you know, the Patriots are really strong. So I don't
want to have a sense of doubt as far as what we're capable of, but it's going to be a little bit,
it's going to be difficult at first, I think. What about the Streisand effect? I mean, I see
this will Johnson really blowing up at their face. They're complete concerted banning of me,
particularly, I think is to set the precedent for everybody else. I don't think I'm that important.
I think they're getting ready. Well, they've set it to move on everybody. They're already moving
on everybody. What do you think Trump and the Congress needs to do? You know what? I did a video
asking for President Trump to step in and to bring awareness of what's actually happening here.
This is digital book burning, just like Nazi Germany all over again. And, you know, important,
I think the numbers were like 1500 plus on our side. It was at least close to 2000 people.
In Berkeley, there was only about 30, maybe 50 of us as a stretch, but we still held them off because
actually the police department did a beautiful job. But I truly believe that Trump and Congress
need to do something. This is absolutely discrimination against you. And the reason
why they're doing it against you, because you're a white male, because you're a Christian,
because you believe in God and because you believe in the truth, they are attacking you.
See, they find it that white people are soft targets. That's the reason why they go after
white people because they know for a fact that white people, for most part, don't say anything.
They don't speak out, but you do. And they don't like the fact that you speak out. And for me to
come on here and acknowledge that there's a war on white people in America, this just proves it.
This just proves it. Them attacking you the way they're attacking you absolutely proves
that there's an attack on white people in America. And a lot of people don't even want to acknowledge
it, but it's actually they're attacking capitalism. They're trying to get white people to be even more
captive, beaten to submit. Like you say, there's a war on everybody, but particularly you do have
the New York Times and all these people, they say, oh, she can say whites are subhuman. This is
literally Adolf Hitler stuff just reversed. And this is what the left, just like St. Candice Owens
supports Nazis and is a Nazi screaming at her. This is insane. Yes, absolutely. I mean,
you had Nancy Pelosi call me a white supremacist. These people have lost any brain cells that they
had remaining. You know, I like to say that they have marbles routing around in the head and the
few that they have is just rallying around. I mean, so these leftists, they do not care about
the American people with when they don't care about truth, they don't care about freedom of speech.
Can you imagine had Hillary Clinton won? Do you think they would be trying to ban you then?
Do you think they'll be trying to shut you down then? Do you think they'll be blaming Russia then?
Do you think they'll be doing all these attacks on the president of the United States? No,
absolutely not because they're not getting what they want. They're trying to do everything they
can and mainly because this is the midterm election year. This is the most important election,
midterm election in American history. If you ask me, if you ask me and they know it,
that's why they want to shut you down now because before November come, because if they
can't have you speaking out, they can't have you waking people up. They can't have you getting people
to be more proactive in America. Never before have you ever seen so many conservatives step
out in the street in Portland or any place else like you did this past year. That's right,
conservatives never get out in the street. I think that's what scares them. I'll come back and talk
to both of you about that, but the iconography, the imagery of a good-looking, strong crowd of people
of every color, all humans, red blood standing up for America and then how scummy and evil their
people are. This really shows what the establishment has got and the type of people they have and the
fact that your crowds were more multiracial than their crowds absolutely panicked. And we'll talk
about that with Rufio Panman at Rufio Panman for now on Twitter and Will Johnston on America
first.com. Alex Jones with infowars.com. Our app launched three weeks ago in news is number one in
the world on Apple and on Android. CNN and others are now calling along with the Democratic party
for it to be removed and they want us off Twitter as well just like the bad guys would do and they
call us the Nazis. Give me a break. I tell you, this is historic just like Martin Luther King
marching in Selma. Lincoln was elected to United Nation for the first time. The left tried to smear
him and went to war with him. Can President Trump and we come together and save America a second
time? Death of a Nation is the latest film from number one New York Times best-selling author
Dynish DeSousa and Academy award-winning producer Gerald R. Mullen through stunning historical
recreations and a searching examination. Death of a Nation cuts through progressive lies to expose
hidden history and explosive truths. In theaters nationwide now. More information at
deathofanationmovie.com. If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love
the Dillon Living Water Bottle. It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste
and saving you money. Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases
the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it. Alkaline
water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy. The Dillon Bottle makes it easy
and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration. Get your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co. The scientists at Info Wars Life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support. Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today. It is well known in traditional medicine for its
soothing properties. Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal
absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so
much more. Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support. Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us
at 1-88-253-3139. Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home
but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle. Available in one ounce,
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen or wherever you go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for
daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing
formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins. With
powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features SilverSoul Nano Silver for a powerful
cleansing alternative. With super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and
affordable. Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle
only available at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com. We are kept afloat only by your
loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're not in the market for
one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider a contribution. 25, 50, 100, 250 or even 500
dollars would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy
their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Taking on the globalist at point-blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help
downloading it we are unstoppable. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Out here in the field and disinformation it's Alex Jones.
My dad and I'm out bragging as I didn't do it in Machiavelli all straight shot when I did it.
I never threatened Mueller. I said I meant politically high noon spaghetti western music
we're gonna take him out this is you know the showdown I'm not backing down they said that was
violence when the ones called for violence but I knew it my dad came over the next day to my house
he goes why'd you do that I said why do you think I did it he said you're pushing him to ban you
ahead of when they're planning to do it right for the election you want to trigger a big debate
about this if I said yep I'm your son you know me don't you he said yeah I think you're gonna I
think it's gonna I think it's gonna work but that's the Holy Spirit folks and I don't want to get
weird on people here I'm 44 about to be 45 and I've learned to go with my gut go with my spirit
when I listen to it everything turns out well when I don't things get bad and they were already
banned as they'd already shadow banned as they'd already do it to everybody else so we had to push
them and I know Project Veritas and others have gotten into the Washington Post and New York Times
they're really upset that's coming out they don't want us to magnify that they're they don't want
Dinesh D'Souza's film getting promoted here we've got internal stuff that will come out soon why
they're freaked out because there are people in Google and these other platforms that are starting
to blow the whistle because what they're hearing is so evil and so out of control and so bad I took
my wife to see this over the weekend uh definition and when you if studied history like I have the
movie is so accurate that I I don't normally get tears of my eyes during a movie but I my wife
looked over and I had tears streaming down my face five or six times and it was only because
it wasn't even tears of pain or even joy it was tears of thank god this is out and then when he
exposed Soros there's a Nazi at the end well I know for a fact man they have told me that's
why they're coming after me that's one of the big reasons it just felt so good to know there were
other people that weren't cowards and to see it just it was I don't want to give the whole movie away
but you know that they don't show it in most liberal theaters around the country they're trying
to block it and it's an amazing time it's pretty before I go back to Rufio and Will Johnson and
talk about this you know this big fight that's coming if you don't financially support us that's
the other part of the equation they will shut us down we can beat these lawsuits Soros is financing
we've been beating some of them but it's very expensive to get the right lawyers to actually
win and I mean we're talking a lot so this is a major war chest a major fight fight the bullies
save the internet save info are super special but we've launched just because of all the censorship
and we've got brain force plus the amazing healthy and utropic for your brain just try it
when you love it sign up for auto ship additional 10% off canceling time free shipping or 50
dollars or more I should add super mel's perfume of a tally just known herbs that are concentrated
in cold press for stamina libido energy secret 12 super high quality vitamin b12 for a natural
form of energy that's so good for your body winter sun it's all 40% off all free shipping dna
force plus that is you know the tip that helps the telomeres stay longer detoxes the cells incredible
comparable stuffs 400 500 dollars in clinics this is 70 something bucks when it's on sale
we're talking 40 bucks a product of each bottle or more 50% off plus free shipping everybody deserves
that especially if you've had nerve damage and stuff just read into it for yourself bio pqq
coq tim survival show x2 the good halogen what an amazing product the opposite of fluoride alpha
power if you really want the next level of the energy stamina libido it's a little too strong for
me all the fluoride free colloidal silver iodine fortified super blue products for adults children
the mouthwash the immune gargle the immune spray it's all there 50% off the free shipping we've got
the patented wound care with a silver salt solution that's about 20% off what it is in stores
ultimate fish oil combo 40% off bio tricillin 5% off it's all there m4 store.com m4slife.com
or triple eight two five three three one three nine they believe they could just shut us down and
move on do lots of mid-level censorship and you'd finally go to sleep with them when they drop the
hammer but coming up next segment i'm gonna with our guest i'm gonna get into ingram defense
info wars coordinated purge of sources we trust and like and so it's a big report up on info wars.com
the fact that tucker carlson the fact that michael savage the fact that even the daily mail gets
what's happening this is a big deal and a big moment they always use that photo shop weird photo
i mean it didn't even look like me but they love it somebody says use that photo so going back
to rufio panman from the proud boys and gab mcgannis was on earlier and will johnson just
other points you guys want to make after this question the symbolism of people not starting
to fight picking up their bubblegum wrappers no problems being nice to the police coming in leaving
things the way they were and people attacking police crapping on the ground yelling and screaming
obscenities getting arrested everywhere well this is the deranged left uh rufio panman why
why are they such scum why are they such art type old trash who the hell are these people
um well i think i think it's an accumulation of everybody who um has never wanted to abide by any
rules never really wanted to accomplish anything for themselves and um you know it that's just
kind of what embodies extreme leftists and antifa um it's really hard to to characterize who they are
it's just because it's so inhuman almost the way they're a bunch of lazy scum that tell us we are
what they are right yeah so it's all name calling it's like kindergarten uh bullies really they don't
really have anything good to say even their chants are are uh very amateurish i guess you could say
they're very uncreative and yeah it's not the answer to 1984 1776 and we humanity are awake and
rising and freedom beats in the human breast and we will not be stopped yeah no it's racist go to
hell yeah yeah yeah yeah me right yeah yeah exactly it's the same thing over and over again same
message nothing new no actual leadership uh you never see their face no sense of responsibility
you know it's just a bunch of garbage oh what about the ordinance now i'll come back to you in a
moment let me ask will johnson what about the ordinance they can't wear mask after they attack
the police and elderly and people that weren't even with the prayer vigil six months ago that you
launched uh how did that affect them not be able to wear their mask they looked they looked like
they were pissing their pants they were highly upset and i you know a lot of them came in with
the mask on and then when they were standing with the mask on i'll have my megaphone and i
would just get on the megaphone i would scream out officer officer he has on the mask has on the mask
and i'll imagine when the police officer start walking towards them they have to pull them off
and they were getting upset because i kept calling them out if you're not committing any crimes if
you don't want to do something wrong and i get caught you typically put on a mask that's a clear
indication that these people coming out here wanting to harm us i've had multiple people say that
you should have these rallies i'm like why because people want to come out and harm you so you're
basically saying that our freedom of speech should go away because we're we should be afraid
that these people come out here with masks on wanting to harm us see antifa in berkeley there
was a city ordinance where they cannot wear any mask and when they walked in with a mask the
police department would not allow them to walk past their their brocade they could not get passed it
so the city ordinance and another thing i shared this video with rob do where the city ordinance
when you had antifa members and people for bam and etc show up these companies democratic socialists
show up to the to the town hall that they had screaming and pleading with them to say allow
antifa to have weapons and allow to antifa to have masks on so they can protect us from the neo
nazis so last time i remember it was our event we didn't allow them to have masking's mask on
we didn't ask them to even come but they wanted to come and wear masks and have weapons so that
they can harm us this is the this is the norm from the love they want to harm people who respect
the president and love this country what kind of world do we live in this is america it's crazy
well that's it they're the bullies but now when they attack rufio and you guys tend to one they
get their butts kicked now now rufio what's going to happen to them after this this seemed to really
demoralize them uh well you know i don't know how many more uh how much more vandalism they have to
do like that one clip they were just attacking that marine corps recruiting office i mean that's
government property right there um they they're lucky that they didn't you know run into 10 marines
that just bumped out of there and and beat their you know beat their butt um you know that was
something i keep looking at is like how stupid you have to be to go and attack you know the marine
corps office and the funny thing is we have a lot of uh military a lot of marines and the army and
navy air force that show up to these rallies because this is what they signed up to do you
know uh fight enemies for the domestic uh domestic and it's really cool to watch and come out and
just come alive because this is like you know they're really truly defending america it's
right let me ask you a question when we come back they knew it was sunday they knew it was saturday
they attacked it and they actually have the intelligence files we've gotten that come up before
they target and pick things where they won't meet opposition so i'd love to do that like you said
like on a tuesday afternoon we'll be right back stay with us patrick in the great nation of australia
you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding hey um i've been following you since i was 14 and
i'm 32 now i remember back when info wars and prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen
and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and i thought it was pretty cool and read
all the books and seen all the dvds and followed all your guests and i've been using your products
since the first iteration of survival shield and since then i'm on the x2 the super male vitality
the caveman the real red pill micro zx body it's all amazing thank you brother yeah and i wanted to
say that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing the mind you're detoxing the body
you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know god the more you fear god but the more
you chase god and i wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side with you the crew and
the listeners out there 1776 worldwide living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
the real drama can be found here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain
water and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal
particles and acid rain could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed
a series of tests for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact
unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rain water next we tested the water from our
elixir pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph
was also restored to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the elixir pure raises the ph of
the water so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain water
supply but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it we knew it was coming the
whole thing was for me leg first demonize him for wars lie about us build a straw man then
sue us to add credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous
terms like bullying children and islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely
off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to
info wars dot com four slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever
you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars
dot com four slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you
and send you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about
info wars dot com four slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how
they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info
this is what they don't want you to see as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep
up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may
not be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum
standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins
minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural
and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
i'll be honest with you i can look into the old crystal ball okay the old globalist
got their finger on the trigger for me not just on internet bands
the torpedoes i launched hit them a long time ago so they can always have their
current victory if they want i chose this long time ago diane feinstein's chai com control
she is a chinese communist agent it's all gonna come out and then there's a good seven or eight
other senators that are on the payroll a lot of house members so you guys just had to keep
pushing moeller and the rest of you so it's all gonna come out i told the new york times on
friday that and boy i said watch for some big senators be supposed to shiny spies it all came
out two days later they they crap their bridges man they hit the emergency line because i was
hitting a lot of these top reporters a lot of them are operatives for the globalists let them know
so they panic button and do what they did which they did i didn't like to them to give them a do
it and i don't particularly like putting myself in this position but if i can call the gambit in
the military or a pawn sacrifice if i can go out in reconnaissance operation and and and
is a good chance i'm gonna get wiped out doing it but i draw their artillery fire to show where
their emplacements are for the jets to come in and take them out well that's going to save
thousands of people and if i get wiped out in the process if it's a war for my family and my
children in the future i'm ready to be sent on that mission and i've told everybody i've volunteered
for it i've done it that's what we're doing and these globalists just keep thinking of destroying
me attacking me against me i consider myself dead already and i'm not trying to be fanciful about
that they take me serious because they know now the public starting to get it this is not a game
here folks uh rufio pam and the great work you're doing will johnson we salute you you guys have
done a great job other points you want to make other angles you want to hit in closing rufio
well you know a lot of people they uh they ask me you know why is that you continue to go out and
do what you do and and sometimes you know after some of these rallies it's it's uh tempting to you
know to maybe you may think maybe i should step back maybe i should just enjoy the summer with
my family but then i'm immediately you know um i remember i immediately remember you know how much
how much longer is it gonna be until this stuff shows up to my front door and to your front door
and that's why i keep telling people i mean you know how much longer do we have if we don't fight back
until this is you know out of control and uh as far as i can see on the streets and as far as i
can see with what you're doing with you know we're not far um from that reality uh if we don't do
something so i just encourage people to get involved however they can whether support uh
platforms like you or get out there on the streets with me um you know or will johnson
you know just do what you can for your beautiful you guys are doing when's the next event or how
people join proud boys how they get involved uh we do have an event in seattle on the 18th
i believe i haven't uh fully verified that i'm going yet um but i probably will be
we have events going on all the time um i know will johnson's going to events all the time and
hosting events so um you know you can find us on proud boys um you can go to your uh your local
chapter so your local state chapter betting page if you want um or you can hit me up on my page um
and we'll we'll try and get you set up and incorporated so we need the shadow man on
twitter for you to end let's put you back up on twitter as a test because i can plug the app that
goes to number one in the world let's let's put up rufio panman's twitter because right now that's
the place not censoring is bad god they were the worst uh at rufio panman r u f i o pan man
pan man everybody go join that because he's got 2400 followers he needs 10 billion followers
god almighty and by the way all trump needs to do is plug gab on his twitter and that's it for
twitter and i'm not saying i want to destroy twitter i'm just saying i think i think dorsi
realizes uh that people are fully aware of what's going on rufio we'll talk to you soon god bless
you we we really respect your prayers and hopes go with you thank you very much ox going back
and closing will johnson then i'll get to this big story with the ingram defending info wars um
our hopes and prayers are with you too you're you're our future my friend so but what do you want to
say in closing you know what i want to say hashtag free alex jones i started spreading it around
hashtag free alex jones what they're doing is absolutely unbelievable and you know what as
long as god keep putting breath in me i'm going to keep fighting for the truth and fighting for
us right that's why i go out to these events a lot of people when i go out to these events
they're afraid because they're afraid of what anti for blm and band's gonna do when you don't do
anything is you end up in the situation that we're in right now for over the past 20 years we should
have had americans step up especially when obama was in office in greater numbers than ever before
to stop what is taking place they've already removed god from schools they removed god from
the courthouses they removed god from public venues they removed god from your place of business
they want to remove god from everything out of sight out of mind and but it's they've already
done it but now is the time to try to reverse all that and thank god we have donald j trump as our
president because he's doing so many positive things for everybody well exactly he brought the
blessing of abraham back in and his inauguration he said we want the blessing we bring god back in
he realized it was a ritual in 60 seconds why do they hate trump so much he's fulfilling his promises
he's so truthful so they say he's a liar though they're the liars you know why they hate him because
he's doing positive things look at the economy look at black people the employment for black people
look at the appointment for hispanics look how he's what look how we're becoming respected as far as
strength across the world and america right now and get back to that he's not doing the whole
affirmative action or welfare to keep people under control he is directing factories though to
minority areas and incentivizing being hired so people have a future well they can't stand the
fact that he's doing positive things because people say you know what i have a job trump has not done
anything that i disagree with and they hear people saying that an alarming rate and they can't have
people like alex jones info wars pushing that message by the way they had 15 more democrats
in the gallup and all those double the amount of black americans hispanic americans others
supporting trump now than what it was just six months ago it's probably way worse than that one
that's why they're freaking out so bad they're afraid you're absolutely right they're afraid
how come they just can't change the channel how come you can't go look at a different news feed
why is alex jones info wars so scary to them because american people are waking up and i want to
and you're absolutely doing it no you're doing it brother we're in this together yes we're in this
together but because because of platforms like yours is because of platforms like mine just to be
honest and i give of course we all give god the glory but we have to do our part in this battle
in the spiritual war well that's what's happened is you johnson they're scared of you you've taken
action you already got them to admit that and it was terrorist by you having the prayer vigil
with folks so we salute you we'll talk to you soon we love you and be safe thank you sir we've got uh
uh mike sernovich and vox stay joining us next hour i need to get to this in this little segment
part of the next uh laura ingram michael sabbage uh tucker carlson has come out in support of us
matt rudge has been without drudge again it's just everybody we've got on the team without
them we'd lose it's just like it's like you see how it's just like this in this folks it's like
biblical and thank god people understand their line about me they demonize me first then they then
they come after me and they think that people don't notice they're going to get everybody
but now we're going to have a debate about censorship just like i wanted that's why i put
myself in there i covered the censorship i covered what they were doing i knew they'd
ban me for it but i knew it had to be done and it's just my my spirit keeps coming through
here's the first of what ingram was saying last night about the attack on m4's and we'll come back
with more of it the next segment here it is remember what facebook ceo marx zuckerberg told
a senate hearing back in april there are certain content that clearly we do not allow right hate
speech terrorist content um nudity anything that makes people feel unsafe in in the community
from that perspective that's why we generally try to refer to what we do as a platform for all ideas
a platform for all ideas really over the past few months facebook and other tech giants have
given us ample reason to doubt that proclamation the latest example started early yesterday morning
when apple pulled several podcasts associated with a controversial and often incendiary alex
jones from the itunes store facebook followed suit unpublishing four of jones pages claiming
the videos on those pages violated that hate speech policy hours later youtube decided it
wasn't going to miss out on all that censorship fun and youtube suspended the alex jones channel
with its 2.4 million subscribers stop right there we're gonna come back with more of this
and it's not ingram's fault she's busy this is what they do they they they banned a few of our
things the week before so that would be the story then they banned everything total de-platforming
now they've gone after discuss that's just the comments so you can talk most a lot of it attacking
me now they kick us off mail champs so we can't send emails to you because of the proper systems
of all the laws then they're they're they're hitting all our server companies lying filing
fake complaints that hey i got racist stuff or child porn or bank documents off this this this
thing i should have opened the show up with that i mean they are trying to shut it all down
we've gone from launching a new app three weeks ago was in the top 50 to going to number one on
android and itunes it's now number one and cnn every hour i'm told i've seen three reports
this thing shut it down shut it down shut it down because the truth is popular and the lie is not
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years ago i set
out with top formulators in the u.s to create the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina
libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this myself the last few months and
from saying my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one
best-selling product at info warslife.com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give
yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win
no lose equation try alpha power exclusively available info warslife.com for yourself
ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and
it's made in the us day get your alpha power today at info warslife.com everybody needs to try alpha
power today choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium
this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula
is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed our super high
quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine
crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience
slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium
work together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this
super combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info warslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
and youtube suspended the alex jones channel with its 2.4 million subscribers oh it's easy
to dismiss concerns about big text actions all coordinated it seems to shut down jones
because of course he's the media's poster child for conspiracy theories but this isn't about alex
jones this is about freedom and our access to information from the sources we as individuals
trust and like if big tech can control the information flow then they can also perhaps
even influence the outcome of the midterms and even future presidential elections
so essentially alex jones has been deleted digitally de-platformed from from these websites
you wonder if he'll have any influence going forward because these private companies
do have an incredible amount of control over the internet and that's the point controlling
who has a voice and who doesn't on these monster platforms is tantamount to limiting speech
and as you'll see in a moment it's also a viewpoint discriminant notice that turd blossom
brian stelter doesn't tell you like you didn't watch the days before that he's lobbying for us
to be taken off he then goes oh my god they took him off oh it's just because here's the thing he
can never tell the truth he's of his father let's continue it's also viewpoint discrimination
back in february facebook launched a new algorithm that would cause top conservative pages
to see a dramatic drop in traffic and this included personal pages by the way president
trump's facebook page saw a 45 drop that paul notice i told you all this because we have
the graphs internally they did a 50 drop after the election and then they've just been squeezing
ever since so you don't notice continue said their content was similarly blocked on facebook
facebook along with other social media sites have taken aggressive actions to silence conservative
voices such as ourselves by deliberately making this big issue recognizing our page
with algorithms that censor and suppress our free speech next it was youtube who let conservative
influencers build up an audience for years only to end up limiting their channels temporarily
pause back that up 10 seconds that's key everyone advertises on their big syndicated radio shows
everyone advertises on their tv shows everyone advertises if your small business or in your
newspaper mad ad for years you build them up you create the content you send people there
they get it all built then they go some sjw said you were a nazi your 35 000 videos and two and a
half billion views are gone and i'm like the only thing i really miss is like god there's
some footage of my dog that's dead my grandma it's dead on there i should have saved that and
downloaded it but i mean just the vandals these the anti-free speech monsters and then they
sit there and act like we're the monsters when they're funded by a nazi collaborator this is
it joins us tomorrow by the way the film is about the nazi soros ah you didn't shut that down did
you my pretty continue next it was youtube who let conservative influencers build up an audience
for years only to end up limiting their channels temporarily demonetizing them with no warning at
all this has happened to conservative commentators like ben Shapiro dave rubin and denis prager
for many on the left the view seems to have become that if you can't beat them prevent them from
speaking just look at what's happened on to conservative speakers on college campuses
and after a liberal radio host flocked on air america remember them well some democrats sought
to revive the fairness doctrine to snuff out conservative talk radio thankfully that went
nowhere but they'll come out with more and special guests but like sternovich uh vox day and others
but it didn't flop they go up your sponsors they harass you they do all this crap the reason i know
all about this is i've been enjoying it for 24 years i've been dealing with every level of
censorship there is there's nothing like practice to make you a master and i know exactly every
trick they got up their stinking sleeve more than they did fueling your body is hard work
that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right
combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and
take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body
flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study
probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you
break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay
fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how
well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery
try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
all right i wanted to get vox day on and then i may even do the fourth hour and take calls i
really want to take your calls get your take on the mass censorship what's happening and the
censorship war going into high gear vox day filmmaker author comic libertarian conservative
nationalist comic bookmaker got a second issue out already gone to number one i wanted to get him on
to talk about how he was banned nine months ago on twitter now dorsi banned milo a couple years ago
or during the campaign i guess about two years ago back in july of of 2016 so i guess two years ago
now and now we've seen all this unfold and accelerate so why is jack dorsi now saying jones
hasn't violated his rules is it like zuckerberg two weeks ago oh jones hadn't violated the rules
then oh we did find he did is this some legalese game but i gotta tell you you've got cnn lobbying
right now just type it in to search engine cnn delete jones's apps we launched a new app three
weeks ago i figured this was coming and i said we got some old apps four five years old i said i
want a big new badass app six months ago i said build it because i think they're gonna ban us
and i think we can push an app to number one i foresaw this and they'll ban that too but the power
to a jury of being number one and then just having your phone book address just how they get to you
banned when you pay for it you you put it into the store we're now number one it what we were number
three earlier we're now number one on news on android and on the whole apple itunes system
now they've delisted us from itunes to get our podcast but the apps are still there so he launched
this three weeks ago this all started a week ago it's now number one four point nine stars and
we have gotten millions of people to sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com
four slash newsletter and we'll be getting to you soon mail chimp bandus discuss bandus more than
15 platforms banned us well i've got lawyers saying no you have clear racketeering like top
ones top you know like we're talking deans of law schools are calling saying okay we want the suit
we can't believe they did this in the trump derangement syndrome the fact that they did all
this so i want to ask box day you ride shotgun was the mike zernovich coming up what do you
think's happening have they was this trump derangement syndrome i mean why are they getting so
scared they just lost these special elections what are they doing because it seems like now
they went too far they demonize me as a straw man to use me as the test case to ban certain people
and de-platform them and unperson them that's now everyone's unifying against it now we're
getting record traffic now they are crippling the sites and attacking us but we'll fix that i mean i
really think they've misstepped again what do you think i think they're desperate i think that
they know they're running out of time and they're taking whatever actions they can as quickly as
possible in order to shut down the voices of the right that are most influential before the midterm
elections i agree with you so so what comes next what comes next is the defunding first you have
the de-platforming and then they're going to go after the monetization yeah they're going to go
after payment processors credit card companies banks try to limit the ability of your supporters
to provide you with money which is beyond racketeering i mean that's what the lawyers say
this is so illegal but they're desperate they think they can pay out lawsuits the decision has been
made even when they lose which they will so they're going to do this well there's no question i don't
think that they have much choice because most of these companies are propped up on some level by
the deep state if you look at the $600 million contract that the CIA gave to amazon what a lot
of people don't realize is that twitter and facebook and google possibly have been benefiting
from similar contracts they just were not as smart as jeff bezos well well let's go further yeah
bezos well you know i mean i've been told by high-level former CIA section chiefs and i confirmed it
google is nasa and some other agency so i mean yeah go ahead i'm not surprised but uh
bezos did it openly yeah he's a he is a better businessman than these other guys and he's actually
interested in business as well and and so that's why amazon doesn't leap into the banning and the
the censoring with the same enthusiasm that the others do i agree with you so i mean we know that
dorsi's part controlled by that why is dorsi saying no when he banned you well i think that
that they're circling the drain your twitter went way too far too early if you think about it
they were really the first to start this whole wave of banning you know uh they're so out of
control that they didn't merely ban me they ended up banning my wife who's not political at all
but she meant she still managed to get herself banned uh after getting into a discussion with
some crazy vegan woman who was stalking her and so twitter i think is is trying to dig themselves
out because they've lost so many users they've lost us you know so many accounts they don't
have the growth anymore and unlike amazon and unlike apple they don't actually make any money
so that's right and you get on something they've had the new york times and and and they had some
people record them and they the washington post and buzzpeed and all the regular suspects calling
people and they say we'll give you a big profile and say how great you are if you tell us bad things
about alex jones and that's like a weird current today of god even though it's worthless and it's
the same thing like oh even some vegan lady you're a leftist so you can get a woman banned
there's no real money or or energy or energon cubes or no seeds or no you know pork steak or beef
steak it's all just scalping someone the left is all now about power to control someone it is the
most maniacal authoritarian thing i could imagine it's it's literally the art type of a villain
well actually that's my pr plan you know i've i've had a lot of trouble with uh the new york times
games and other mainstream media pieces doing hit pieces on me so i figure a few more appearances
here on alex jones and then i'll be able to say hey look i've got all this dirt on alex jones
maybe you should do a nice piece about me for a change but you know the weird thing about a nice
piece i told politico right when rand paul won like four years ago i said you know how you'd beat
rand paul is you would endorse him and they they laughed they put that in there they didn't get it
like you know vox a new york times piece endorsing you would be the end of you but they can't even
do it everything to get the macky valiant thing that if they endorsed us it would kill us they're
so delusional man there's such follows yeah well i thought it was funny that they thought that anointing
ben Shapiro and jordan peterson and sam harris as the official new york times approved opposition
was somehow going to help those guys i mean even people who are fans of Shapiro and everyone
turned against them when it became obvious exactly we're going to break here but then
what comes next fox what are they going to do next what they're going to do next is they're
going to uh go after the lesser lights you know i fully expect people like me people like jack
posovic people like sernovich uh i expect that we're going to start getting targeted as well
i agree with that i think i know the attack on me is the cover for everybody else getting banned
there's no question in fact i already went ahead and and deleted my facebook pages and my facebook
account just because i figured you know if they're going to if they're going to ban significant figures
like alex jones and there's absolutely no point in my making any attempt to build up a platform
on facebook and that's the problem there's signaling that we're not welcome when we're the
people that actually produce what why do you think their stock at twitter and facebook has plunged 30
percent the last month because it's been clear that the trump administration is not going to permit
them to be propped up anymore that's that's you're right like right again box day what do we do then
what does trump do because i'm not bragging here i literally get asked by people very close to the
president like write a report what do we i mean i'm like jesus i mean i'm not that smart you guys
have this figured out but i mean i'm i'm fine i will tell you right now what we think you ought to
do what should trump do about the web censorship purge that's what we're going to cover on the
other side with box day i'm alex jones info wars dot com if you like alkaline water or know someone
that does you're going to love the dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel
the dylan bottle increases the ph up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water
anywhere you want it alkaline water is healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the dylan
bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dylan bottle
today at dyln dot co that's dyln dot co get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price the fox
caramba knife finally available in the us the fox caramba knife opens with one hand faster than
you can pull a handgun for utility for defense and for way less than other knives of this caliber
go to the ultimate knife dot com truly the best knife you will ever own and only available at
the ultimate knife dot com use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping get the ultimate knife
at the ultimate price at the ultimate knife dot com most of you know that heart disease is the
number one silent killer in the us what if i told you for just 54 95 a month you could fight against
heart disease naturally at heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back
to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it check out all of the success stories at hbx
track dot com or do order call 866 295 5305 that's 866 295 5305 hbx track dot com don't risk it when
you can take charge of it hi i'm dan pilla i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they
tried to seize my mother's house i sued the irs in one i beat the irs then and i've been beating
them ever since i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people
deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved i can help you too if you owe taxes you
can't pay don't wait another day there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case call 834 no tax or
go to my website dan pilla dot com that's dan pilla dot com dan pilla dot com
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos
you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the glove list it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on
the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of
their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us
with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever
to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local
stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer
and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version
of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus is an all-new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports
your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill has quickly become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
there must be some way out of here say the joker to the theme there's too much confusion
i can't get no relief all right best-selling author voxday patriot is our guest here voxday
dot blogspot.com i asked the question for the break what does trump need to do because
i'm not on some power trip i'm talking to high level people and they say like you know a year ago
what's shadow banning or wait or they're and i'm trying to explain like you know google's really
run by the cia and the uh nasa and here's the here's here's here's when they got founded 17
years ago here's the incutel documents and here's a link to the national archives they're like really
god almighty yet as you know they're merging with china and then apple's moved over there and give
them all the code keys and there's shiny spies everywhere the diane feinstein's run by him i
mean uh let me just tell you two weeks ago i'm on the phone with people at the pentagon it's
sent com and i'm like diane feinstein is a chinese agent this they don't even hide it now you see in
the news so the real reason they're pissed at me is i do open-source research and i have sources so
i told people on friday diane feinstein's going down as a chi com it was in the new sunday i'm not
bragging i'm not that smart so i'm sick of doing all the work only in that vox i'm scared because
we have them we have their ass if people just they are censoring the internet they are blocking
conservatives they're trying to block the economy coming back uh jerks like uh bill marz saying i
wanted depression to teach americans to come to heal well screw you man you're not gonna ask my family
over we have these people we have them in the censorship we have them in espionage and we have
to do it not because we want power but because we don't want these people running our lives so i'm
ranting i'm asking you as somebody banned by twitter is this whole thing coming down what does
trump and congress and our listeners and me in your view what do we do before they steal this
election by rigging everything and by taking the internet over in the next three months what do we
do this now is critical and i gambled everything and i pushed them into this position and it's
happened again yet again what i envisioned happened but i am now envisioning if we don't press the
attack and get this front and center to the president and if he doesn't take action we are
going to lose i i agree the enemy's panic but sometimes there's an energy like one of the famous
african his name lord whatever in japan said the way of the jedi you know the way of what's their
copying the way of the samurai is is is what's the exact quote the way of the samurai is recklessness
and a hundred men can't beat such a man he guys looked it up the way of the samurai's recklessness
and i actually get but it's not that you're being reckless it's that you're going with your gut and
your spirit that's when you're unstoppable so if we don't go with the recklessness i think we're
going to at least have a civil war we win but my god i don't want to go there i see choose your
adventure they win that's probably not going to happen i agree with you we have a giant long
protracted situation that can turn into a new world war that's that's happening that could
or us winning is so easy if we take destiny in our hands go ahead well i think that a lot of us
are hoping that there is something to the whole q and on thing with regards to the prosecution of
the conspirators and the criminals who have been attempting to subvert the government of the united
states certainly there is is some reason to be optimistic on that score regardless of whether
the stuff reported by q is literally true or not but with regards to what we can do personally
what we have to do is we have to stop supporting the enemy you know i didn't mind it all
when i got kicked off of twitter even though i had i don't know 33 000 followers or something
because i had largely stopped using it i didn't want to support them anymore i didn't want to
bring them my traffic etc um what people need to do is they need to start giving up the addiction
to the left's controlled social media that means you know every person that leaves facebook
causes other people to consider leaving facebook because they can no longer interact with you there
and the sooner that we reduce facebook and twitter to nothing more than a bunch of lefties
attacking people who are posting cat pictures the more likely it is that we're going to win
now i believe that we're going to win the midterm elections and that we're going to win
the 2020 presidential election no matter what they do there is not going to be a blue wave
blue wave i've said that many times i wasn't surprised that the republicans hung on to these
seats that they were supposed to lose i think that you're going to see even more insanity
out of the left after the blue wave fails to appear in november 2018 but the main thing that
people like you and me and and cernovich and possobiak and other people who have
of followings whether they're large or small is that we need to build our own platforms
you know we've built info galactic which is a very good alternative a superior alternative
to wikipedia we need people to start using that we need people to start editing it wikipedia is
controlled by only 500 people we don't need that many people in order to become the dominant
information content provider on the internet the same thing is true of of sites like twitter
sites like um you know sites like facebook it doesn't take that many people to get the trend
moving in the positive direction and so the more that we see people moving to sites like
info galactic to sites like oneway.com the more the the more you're going to see people
reducing the power of facebook and twitter and other social media platforms the one problem
is youtube because youtube is run at such a loss that almost no one but google could afford it
well you're right i was misquoting it was the way of the samurai is is desperation it's the same
thing with recklessness all i'm saying is literally we can beat these people no one takes the field
because the average conservative or christian is so humble and that's great but we cannot just sit here
and i don't want to run things i don't want to be in charge but i'm not going to have people that
are trying to sexualize my kids or put deadly vaccines in me that they admit are killing people
i'm just not going to do it so now i'm all in and so i just realized that i don't know what it is
about these evil mental midgets that get power and and convalesce together that then want to
run our lives i just know this they need to get off our backs and i think this thing that jack
dorsey is backing off now i agree he was the vanguard of censorship trump sends one tweet
that what he's doing is illegal he backs off so the message of republicans and people is
get on it get upset have emergency hearings we can stop this instead of sitting there going
you're a private company you can do whatever you want no your utilities that held things out that
let people advertise and build you up and now you're letting democrats do whatever they want
and not let other people do it before just like blacks not letting them vote in the deep south
here in the 1950s and 60s this is outrageous well it is outrageous and my response to this sort of
thing is bake the cake you know the the rules have changed the whole idea that a corporation
can do whatever it wants has been strictly limited legally it's no longer true and so republicans need
to stop crying about the fact that things have changed and start playing by the new rules in
order to start winning by them that's right and these are monopolies so you don't get on your
telephone and somebody censors it okay they don't do that we'll be right back with voxday
mike sermons more news wars dot com news wars dot com hi i'm dan pillow i started fighting the
iris over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house i sued the iris and won i beat
the iris then and i've been beating them ever since i wrote the book on tax debt settlement
and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved
i can help you too if you owe taxes you can't pay don't wait another day there's no such thing as a
hopeless tax case call 834 no tax or go to my website danpilla dot com that's danpilla dot com
danpilla dot com it's a no-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need
a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get
the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive
five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 187799 burky or big burky
water filters dot com that's 187799 b e r k e y we are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage
and that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest
nutraceuticals please consider a contribution 25 50 100 250 or even 500 dollars would be a
godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign
of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights hey how would you like
to take info wars with you wherever you go well now you could do just that with the new official
info wars and and here's the best part it is absolutely free at the apple store and google
play you can join the info war today check it out right now at info wars dot com forward slash
app it's the info wars official app take them on the globalist at point blank range and with your
help spreading it and with your help downloading it we are unstoppable info wars life and info wars
life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary
type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced
by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed
for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the
best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best
source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two years but the result as verified
by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world read the facts at
info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood
but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something the globalists are targeting
visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139 years ago info wars life created the powerful
myco zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped
into the environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support
your gut health myco zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula
designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better
product to help your body fight back myco zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the
body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if
it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract
pal darko bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of
time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved myco zx plus
today at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
you know i'm a big historian back when i had time because i stopped reading pulp fiction i was
about 10 or 11 and got into like science fiction i was about 14 in history after that because it
was so much more interesting and there was so much history each page had battles wars you name
it i remember reading a few books about imperial japan and feudal japan before that i remember reading
a quote that i remember just a few years ago and found online of lord naoshi gay said the way of the
samurai is desperateness 10 men or more cannot kill such a man common sense will not accomplish great
things simply becoming insane and desperate in the way of the samurai if one uses discrimination
he will fall behind like trump said the deepest thing ever did was start being shallow one needs
neither loyalty nor devotion but simply to become desperate in the way loyalty and devotion are
themselves within desperation and i'm all intellectual until the fight starts and i've
learned to just go with the desperation of not wanting to be ruled by these evil people and that
always leads me to victory when i overthink things and do everything i'm now a follower a leader
has to be ready to put themselves in the position and i've done some things the last few weeks that
i did on purpose only told my father about it and uh he's got the record of it but the point is
is that i knew at a gut level it was right now i'm betting my native intellect against the globalist
i'm betting my subconscious and my ancestors against theirs but my sternovich is here we're
also uh have vox day as a surprise for a good time in a moment but i don't think we've won but i think
we're in the fight and have the initiative and i believe this attack is the ground zero to set
the precedent for everyone else for a few days folks were caught flat-footed but i'm confident
now my sternovich we talked about this privately last week i'm confident now that this if seized
by trump and others if they move this is the big election issue and the election of freedom and i
i think the censorship that's already been going on we had to force it out in the open
i think we're looking at victory uh but sometimes you're pessimistic you're a smart guy what do you
think uh mike sternovich well the attacks are only going to intensify and the good news is that the
enemy is emboldened in a way that you want them emboldened they're becoming reckless now they're
becoming um they're not they're not thinking through the next move it's now just strict bloodlust
and there's two ways that you can always trigger a blunder by an enemy one is you make them angry
and rage and two is you make them feel like they're winning and that you're about to be defeated
because then they'll take reckless moves it's a strategic retreat so a lot of people noticed
with me is that i pretended that i was depressed and hiding out and stuff and then i came out with
the james gun thing and people a friend of mine who actually understands these things a very high
level person the pentagon said you just did what the but the dingus con the moguls would do is you
would retreat and then everybody thought oh we got you guys now we're going to destroy you guys now
and then suddenly you find out that that this was all a bruise and of course i was never despondent
or demoralized at all and i got that and i get what you're doing here's what i'm saying you just
mirrored what i was saying with a twist desperation is not arrogant lust for power and hate in a rage
desperation is looking at your kids you got to get out of the situation your brain makes the right
decision instinctively i mean you agree or disagree that that a lot of times i i want to hear
your real tale was i you call that art types i i more and more go off my gut after i've done the
research and i just make a prime approximation and go with it because if i over analyze it may
fail when i go with gut it seems to never fail do you get what i'm saying how i made the choice
to to bring them out oh well i know for well so three things one is that in fact is a whole
chapter in guerrilla mindset about your gut and how your gut is referred by scientists as a second
brain 75 percent of your serotonin and dopamine those neurotransmitters are actually in your
intestines people think that's crazy and then i say well no no it's been proven we have a
second brain in our spinal cord and our guts yeah so so it is there but the samurai of course our
brain's gonna want to know what we're eating i mean yeah of course yeah so literally your your
your gut is your instinct now what the samurais we're talking about is the alignment of purpose
and the alignment of of your your higher levels here and then the instinctual stuff that keeps you
alive total commitment you're talking about total commitment correct total commitment singularity
i call it the singularity of focus where you know that and this of course was in the haggard
quarry was written about also where they said that a samurai is so committed to his purpose
that he may be struck down but he will take the enemy with them because he's so committed to that
strike that he will take the enemy with him so that is the singularity purpose did desperation
spoken about in the samurai literature is a little different than mad rage yeah lustful controlling
rage i agree yeah it doesn't mean that you're despondent it's a very very specific word
loss and translation it doesn't no i agree desperate means your total i agree your body's
aligned in total commitment right so so for me and in you too because i remember um a year ago you
told me that you were going to do this because i told you i wish that you wouldn't do it we had a
long conversation um in person in austin go ahead and tell the story then since you brought it up
then we'll get vox days a little present for you go ahead okay so i was in um i came out in austin
for the megan kelly thing and i said alex they're they're going to kill you here's what you have to
do you have to quit trolling and i told them because that's the thing people always say oh
you know you talk shit on alice the crap on alice jones no i do not we may i demand i just said i
think you gotta quit trolling um absolutely hundred percent and and you said um actually no i'm not
going to do that i'm gonna troll the media into even more traps and i'm gonna bring them out even
more and i said okay you know reasonable people can disagree on the right um approach here and you
did and what you've done though is it's interesting because what you've done is made the media lie
and here's what i mean when i when i read the article say go oh alex jones threatened moeller
i go oh crap what happened 15 articles i read alex i promise you i went to google news 15 articles
said that you you threatened them none of them show the video none of them show the video then i
watched the video and i go wait it was just like a spaghetti western sketch so anybody who's actually
committed now realizes wow that the media they just lie about everything and i knew they lie so i
didn't lie to gonna do it i was honest but i figured i told my dad this i said this will trigger them
with the total ban which will then alert trump everybody else to make an issue at a gut level
i knew being desperate being aligned in purpose that it had to happen and now it's worked so
well and it had to be done in the open i mean the the good thing about this is that
they're murdering you in the open which is better than the shadow bands now now a couple of things
happened that were advantage and advantageous the one is that i had begun retweeting a lot
of members of congress recently let's come back from breaking do that but vox day your good friends
riding shotgun with us and vox had a surprise for us we go to break vox go ahead and take over here
my friend well i was just kind of amused you know the um when i heard that um mic was going to be on
i figure it's time to start supporting my sternal fashion amazing put that back up there i like that
start of its face i like that i'm gonna wear one of those yeah it was like by the way i'm not one
of these ego i want to celebrate other men that are fighting tyranny i'm serious that's a great
shirt how do people get one of those oh i they have them at uh crypto dot fashion they're uh
they're by the way we don't like to do this all of us are very humble but we have to
celebrate people that are on the front line like trump and sternovich and you and so many others
mike you want to comment on this new shirt have you seen this oh it's it's definitely great it has a
very sort of ominous it's like it could be the new shade i was even a little bit scared by that
image i'm like oh wow well it was just kind of fish eye it gives you that that gorilla look let's
let's put that back up yeah yeah i was it's the it's it's the chaser that chade sternovich but it's
not a guy that thought hispanics were subhuman and hated black people it's a guy that loves everybody
yeah it's amazing you know i heard in college that shagovara called mexican subhuman roaches
i went and bought one of his books and the son of a bitch actually says it and then i see mexicans
everywhere wearing that eat i'm gonna say is that piece of crap shirt god oh my god we'll be right
back with mike sternovich and voxday info wars dot com news wars dot com our news apps now number one
worldwide we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four
years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to
detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support
it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated
with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical 360 win this is the
formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as
close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you
want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as
healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america
to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks
to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our
bodies with z shield info wars life dot com we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg
first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that
then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and islamophobia and then walla two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of
major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot com
four slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever you're subscribing
your podcast in it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com four slash
newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and
articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com four slash show
how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they can then reach out to others with
the information and point out this is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to see
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the
night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com
when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the
glove list it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood
against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's
why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info
ward and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that
everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no
way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name
and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to but the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning you're listening to the alex jones show
all right welcome back these are not heady times these are historic times and we're getting
inside baseball but we do i never trolled lies i i will say something that's very clear i am
politically spaghetti western music at high noon uh metaphysically this is a showdown of powers i'm
not backing down muller's not backing down we're gonna have a shootout like red river shootout
and football knowing they would go with that so i could illustrate they're the ones saying really
kill trump attack his family you know cnn got after scolese got caught or he got shot they're
sitting there going got caught in gunfire they try to kill 17 members of the freedom caucus
and cnn's like well the guy really was you know mad at trump that's so sick i don't want violence
everybody knows that but they would play that double standard so that's the type of stuff i do
now mike sternovich is here vox days and leave us a moment do a little bit more with mike sternovich
but as we pull back here and we see the lay of the land i'm mad at trump about continuing the war
in afghanistan he means well he's a great guy he's not a globalist i love him to death i'm mad
about him continuing to not expose vaccines like he said he would do but i'm sure we'll get to it later
but just sitting there i mean it took us a long time to get him informed about shadow banning
i know i got him a report in his hands a week before he talked about it
and then they got even worse right on time for me and i'm not name dropping we were pushing hard
like the campaign's like well what do you want to tell the president he wants to know what's going
on you know what's what you want i'm like what i want is him to go after internet censorship
we're gonna lose this midterm this is a campaign violation they're giving billions of democrats
letting them promote and banning all republicans and shadow banning what shadow banning i'm like the
head of the campaign you're this big guru that knows all this stuff i'm gonna stop right there
how in earth so mike vox day jumping anytime here i i love trump and i know he's a good guy
but he loves fox news and the damn new york times too much he i know for a fact he reads
new york times all day and sits there and watches fox news used to they bring him clips of my show
clips of cernovich his son would bring those to you you know to him this is the issue they're
blocking everybody they're intimidating they're doing it i'm mad at trump only to say this because
it'll get to him what does trump need to do vox day mike cernovich or do you disagree
that this is the big enchilada right now
about forcing internet censorship out in the open and what's happening we've done it
i've pawned sacrifice myself the listeners get it well the the issue with trump is that
trumps great it's like a greek flawed trumps greatest strength and is also his greatest
weakness and that he thinks he knows everything and he's totally self-confident so he's a man in
his own world right he really believes he could have won the election without alternative media
hundred percent believes it so from his mind he thinks well it's bad this is too bad i don't
like that it's happening oh but he wants to add confident just like he wanted men his
supporters are being attacked everywhere exactly so in his mind if all alternative media is banned
it's not a big deal he'll he'll be fine he'll be okay doesn't he get alternative media and all
these social networks had 95 more bandwidth and people than the freaking fox news no no no he
doesn't he believes what let me tell him then poll watch and had videos every day with average of
six million views at least ten of them had 35 million views or more they deleted them the
day hillary lost they ignored us and didn't think we had power poll was way more reached than me
okay i'll say it anybody paul didn't even know it we had billions of views for you that all
disappeared on our facebook trump you didn't have billions of views on that stupid ass fox news
and nothing against fox news but i want to win this hell man but i'm sorry but exactly trump
didn't know how much he had sorry go ahead guys i'll shut up but if we're going to win then we
need to stop screwing around and playing on facebook's no i agree but what i'm saying is trump can
make them open it up for everybody i'm sorry go ahead but that's but but that's a mistake we don't
want them to open it up yep we want that we we want to build our own but we haven't built the
platforms yet vox we have the reason i'm like this is we're two minutes to midnight i'm vox
make your point for two minutes i'm sorry than mike it's just i'm telling you we have to attack
them on censorship and election meddling now that is the answer go ahead right well but then we
should be going after them on on racketeering on collusion people need to be filing private
suits but the reality is all of this stuff is secondary the main thing is to turn them into
myspace the main thing is to get no i agree if we leave them that's great and they die i agree but
now in the next three months i don't think it happens now we people are pissed they've been censored
i think prompt makes it a big issue they back off for the election we win if not they're thinking
he isn't noticing they're saying will he notice we're stealing the election ahead of him losing
them will impeach him go ahead well again i think that they can go make these efforts but i think
that the trend towards nationalism around the world and in the states the fact that the economy
is doing well the fact that the tariffs are having the no i agree that we win long term but we may
have a civil war if we don't beat it now i'm gonna come back to you vox you gotta go in a minute
sort of itch i've been ranting you try to talk just i i feel in a spiritual level desperation
we're going to win if we take victory in our hands if we don't make trump and others which
donald juniors ready to do it everybody gets it everybody's ready if trump doesn't lead this train
and point it out the only reason we're still on twitter is because trump told jack dorsi watch your
ass well i mean i'm actually quite pessimistic about the the immediate near-term solution
the strikes on you you are the big white whale and that's not racial of course for the illiterate
liberals for media matters who watch these for clips that's not anti-white people that was out
hunting for me exactly but the soros people they're not literate so they don't even know
know they don't they don't understand that reference so you're the white whale now they're
going to go after everybody but they're going to go after you even more and you and i i'm not
going to say why but you and i know how they're going to do it and you know i don't want to give
them any more ideas there they are now banning dinesh desu says that the nation from theaters
that was just on dinesh's twitter feed you um sir are costing a college applicants for people
which is good because in the long term i'm i'm optimistic but i'm laying out the short term case
i sent a link to daria where a college administrator was not going to let somebody come to college
because they followed you on twitter didn't like you didn't retweet you followed so there's totally
mafia harassment that's what i mean not even about us it's the it's the serious racketeering
going on by democrats i think trump makes that an issue well yeah but in the short term there's
going to be more bodies literal and figurative um for right wing people independent thinkers
because as you know 20 percent of your audience is actually liberal 20 percent of my audience is
liberal they're just fed up with the lies they're going to go after anybody wants to talk about
vaccine awareness and report on vaccination do five more minutes with us i'm going to finish
up with vox day uh again mike serinovich everybody should follow him while it's still there on twitter
voxday at voxday.blogspot.com and vox university uh and and and again uh mike serinovich where's
the best place for people to follow you outside of the main combines yes serinovich.com c-e-r-n-o-v-i-c-h
dot com that's where i do the blogging and as you know i do a lot of stuff that isn't political
because you can't you can't do what you and i do if your mind is not no i agree let me tell you
i'm trying to get off this subject god i'm sick of it i would have already retired or they kept
messing with me all right in closing vox day's got two new comic books out and i sell them at
infoworkstore.com you can get them wherever infoworkstore.com a alt hero rebel sell uh is the
second one crackdowns the first awesome comic and it's revolutionary in a world you know run by
soros to do this so tell folks about your latest work with alt hero well we signed with a movie
producer and we are currently talking to some independent studios who are not a democratic
dominated and uh alt hero number three just came out two days ago it's called reprisal and it's
doing very well uh we'll have it out on print and it'll be on the info wars dot com store very soon
and you know a lot of people look at this stuff and they say oh well this is you know it's just
comics it's just silly but this is where the seeds are planted for the revolutions of the future yeah
these are the air types of the future let's talk soon vox day you're amazing folks and get alt hero
one two and three at infoworkstore.com uh or they want to buy direct from you i don't care where
do they get it uh they get it at um castalia books direct and archiving comics all right you're
awesome we'll come back with a few more minutes with mike sarnovich and then we've got roger stone
with big breaking news coming up here's the bottom line because i forgot to plug this hour i am selling
the highest quality supplements from the best top labs in the country discounted just like my info
is world-changing our supplements are world-changing when you buy these and sign a ferrato ship cancel
any time get 10 off you can remember to support us each month until you don't want to support us
fight the bullies say the internet same info wars super special info wars store dot com and let me
tell you dna force 50 off world-changing free shipping secret 12 high quality medical bottom
of 12 40 off free shipping get brain force find out now fish oils krill oils for your
children everybody whatever you do realize the fight is now we're not funded by soros we're funded by
you and you make the decision now whether the win draw or lose the t-shirts the air filtration it's
all there the alt hero comics check out info war store dot com the globalist hope you're a zombie
they hope you don't realize they're so afraid of this info back in two minutes with mike sarnovich
then roger stone and more whatever you do listening on radio or tv spread the links
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version
of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports
your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill they quickly become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and
body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
in it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com you know if i tried to sit here and tell you
about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life it take hours michael zx plus and now is a
lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold
the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone
that's the precursor all the natural hormones in your body that it's got all the minerals and the
vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it our latest product that goes great with the super blue
colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray
you do you can also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot
more without you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store.com
and remembering that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake
and it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second
american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show
we are on the march the empire is on the run alex jones and the gcm radio network
so mike started with one more segment then roger stone kind of because with him it takes some calls
mike i've been ranting and raving for the last 30 minutes you're on other points you like to add
about where we are in this world i think we've drawn them out for their big censorship move
they're concerted racketeering operation i think this has a smell of victory if people get upset
if they get involved the strizand effect is in full play okay so here's the issue and this is the
issue that trump has um you and i are going to be okay because they go after us harder and we do
better the people i worry about is i worry about the people who this is what keeps me up at night
i don't care about in my own mind the millions of average facebook and twitter and google and
youtube users who are all being blacklisted and they're getting doxed and you and i think college
is a scam but if you want to go to college that's your choice i worry about you know the the ground
level people who are being doxed the antifa tried to murder a 55 year old jewish man outside of an
event because they are the antifa are the nazis and the brown shirts so i'm i'm not worried about you
i don't go to bed worried about you you're fine i don't go to bed worrying about me i'm fine i go
to bed and i think what about that person who just has a regular job and they're working hard just
good america a good americana a guy that has muscular dysentery and is Hispanic and shows up
for free speech against beat up by a bunch of white dudes but it's okay they beat him up because
they're liberal or or they find out that oh he liked a facebook page or shared an article and
then they doxed him try to get him murdered try to get him fired so for me for you and me i'm i'm
optimistic i mean and in the day if they somehow tried to kill my online stuff i would just go
meditate and go to the gym and lift and you know whatever dude like my life was great before i got
into this war my life was amazing i was in great shape i i just did mindset work two or three
hours a day i have clients who pay me a ton of money to to help them you know really take life
so for me my life was so much better but i realized that they're going to murder everyone if we're
not able to stop this now and politically metaphorically sorosensors o sernovich and it's your
side by the way the left you're the people out there five hundred twenty articles violence against
trump supporters john nolte of bright bars catalogued them vicious attacks kanda someone's
run out of a bar uh portland oregon uh women being attacked a black woman had her hat stolen
we have people in berth they particularly call black police officers the n word i mean what the
hell where's the video we have this video that i posted i found portland abolish ice they call
black officers hey you n word hey and they don't say the n word they say stay at all but why why
would you what what that's what they do they are so here's the thing to understand the way to
understand social justice is that they are the intellectual descendants of pulpit they are the
intellectual descendants of fallen they're they believe that the total rulers what do you make
of the police finally standing up to them in portland and berkeley i think that sent a shock
wave through their funders the the the jigs up i think they panicked because they got this whole
civil war thing planned i think cops even in blue city saying no i think that's what's got them in
crisis mode well not only that but i'm gonna tell you what i'm gonna do next to antifa and i can
announce it because there's no way to stop this there is a man facing felony criminal trial in
september named david cambell he tried to murder a 55 year old trump supporter so his name is david
cambell and once he's convicted i will be ensuring that he is sued for his violent deeds and once he
is sued as you know there's something called discovery every email he sent every email you're
going to get all his documents from his providers the whole enchilada and i can say that publicly
because there ain't nothing anybody can do because i'm not going to sue antifa it will only be against
it's called it'll be in state campel john dove we're on the march the empire is on the run mike
sernovich thank you so much talk to you again soon roger stoves straight ahead i'll tell you stay with us
info wars dot com news wars dot com our apps number one global we all know that tell my
sex toxins in the water is a serious health issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but
it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet shower and sink in your home that's why
we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system the
pro pure whole house water filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water
it's compact in size easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out
of your water supply and away from you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction
you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home head to info
wars store dot com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to
replace your current rundown systems it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house
filtration system today
all right we're back live i've got time for one segment i want to be in the whole hour but i've
got to go take care of a bunch of stuff behind the scenes they there's no comments on info wars
dot com or news wars dot com or prison planet dot com because a discuss that we've been with for like
six seven years and they did advertising with us we did it with them they just said hey we're not in
business with you and we can't send you emails mail chimp they used to follow all the rules they
they blocked us and it's like 15 computer groups not just itunes not just apple that runs slave
factories in china not just google not just youtube and it's it's everything but but the good news is
even though we can't email you millions several million people have gone to info wars dot com
for slash newsletter and they've sent us their email and opted in so as soon as we get the new
legal lawful email has all these rules this big tech doesn't want you using it that's why they
pass all these laws where they can spy on you but you know email is barely usable this is we're
going back retro now so info wars dot com for slash newsletter info wars dot com for slash app
our apps now number one on itunes number one on droid it was just number three earlier today
number one on new apps it's now number one and cnn i mean this is they're such authoritarian losers
they're such dirtbags they're so soviet nazi whatever like they're like oh take them down
they're number one wow so you want us it's like a phone book listing for the computer
and you pay for the app you build it you put it on their platform and then now they're looking
at it i want to ask roger stone banned off twitter what like a year ago milo two years ago
why do you think jack dorsi it's like you know facebook said two weeks ago oh jones is following
the rules and they deliberate and say no he hasn't banned us do you think dorsi is doing that or do
you think trumps tweet a week and a half ago that shadow banning totally illegal we're looking at it
looking at it of republican congressmen and others do you think that's got his attention
because dorsi was one of the biggest censors out there why is he suddenly playing this game with
oh alex jones what do you think you know honesty alex i think it's because he banned milo then he
banned myself uh if he then banned you i think he didn't like the narrative we were banned for
political reasons uh twitter's uh standards their guidelines are so incredibly vague until the newest
iteration that are still broad enough for them to sift out conservative or pro trump or republican
or libertarian thought uh that it's ridiculous so it's kind of a head fake plus in all honesty alex
will all do respect banned on facebook banned on spotify banned on youtube's banned on on instagram
banned across the board on itunes yet the market always surprises you doesn't it a record number
of people signing up for our podcasts alex jones show the war room are the real news with david
night a record number of people watching it online streaming on our own site a record number of people
listening to it on terrestrial radio your ratings up in every market no they are i mean to number one
you are heard so so so what are they thinking with the strizand effect because let me tell you
millions of sign-offs for email millions of people following our podcast at info wars dot com
forward slash show just click it and get it and if everybody else doing that says hey here's the
forbidden thing get it what did they think they were doing why do you think they did this roger
well because uh as you yourself uh said uh we are the tip of the spear little did you know when
you coined the phrase the u.s senator murphy would say we're the tip of the riding iceberg well i mean
when you coined the phrase we are the resistance little did you know how true that was and now they
want us to not out the resistance because we fear to go where others dare not go where eagles
dare the truth our audience does look at this quote by senator christ murphy info wars is the tip of a
giant iceberg of hate and lies that uses sites like facebook and youtube to tear down the nation
and tear it apart that's what he's doing these companies must do more than take down one website
the survival of our democracy depends on it so destroy free speech to save our democracy that
is crazy well first of all we completely reject their characterization of what we talk about
here and what we advocate and what we tolerate that is a false depiction of who we are i agree
by the way i can decide whether i love or hate that jacket god well i've got to i've i've got to
i'll address this i was just i was gonna do it in the well we'll do it later because i it's it's
really obnoxious but that's fine let look there's a story there's a story behind it which must be
told it was made by chip in new york sometime in the fifties uh and i saw it the fashion of institute
column uh uh fashion institute in new york had a display of ivy league fashion i saw it several
years later i saw it in a thrift shop on the lower east side where i bought it for 75 bucks
it's a classic that you can't wear every day so i understand but let me bring what do you call that
then uh it's just uh it's just an ivy league style chip was like brooks brothers and uh and
their ilk kind of a stop right there well let's stop right there let's get a little serious issues
i shouldn't have brought this up i will change for the next segment by the way now you're great
it's just let me just you know a nice blue sports tag without having to look great right
and with that black tie but let me get serious here we know feinstein's a chicom agent most of
democrats are that's what i call us russian agents because they're the chicom agents never
got to this new york times thing where she was here saying i'm a russian agent tell me how you got
paid by them how you work for them and i'm it was like tell me how you know you were a flying
carpet salesman in istanbul five thousand years ago was that ridiculous but feinstein now coming
out feinstein ties to china go way deeper than alleged office spy so i've said this is the issue
you bring this out the russian collusion is the diversion google apple moving to china censoring
this is what trump has to do this in web censorship we've forced it out in the open made it the top
story the last few days bigger than even republicans winning these special elections there's no way
trump can ignore this now roger i mean my gut told me we could win we could force it out this is
victory on a silver platter how do we get trump to talk about the democrats and the illegal campaign
contributions blocking libertarians conservatives trump nationalist giving democrats full power
it's all admitted it's all happening i sacrificed a lot of our operation to do this but i knew it
was critical so i did it now i've laid out the buffet here what do you think well first of all
i think you're the first significant voice in america who has linked the the tech left and those
engaged in the strangulation of our first amendment rights to the chinese communists
particularly through apple and other and it's total it's total it's total it's total they've
sold us out they have completely sold us out for a mess of potting they've taken hundreds of millions
of dollars to sell our security and our free expression to uh and they can't believe that
we're onto it they can't believe we're onto it you know and the president has to grasp this as a
potential campaign issue the infiltration of the democratic party uh the infiltration of of the
technical capability in the country by the chinese is undeniable that is the real issue here that is
who has their foot on our throats today because we speak out against their tyranny and how pissed
are they that we've blown it wide open the pentagon agrees everybody knows it's true they own the debt
they own hollywood they own a bunch of democrats and now the shot across the bow with feinstein being
exposed billions that are husband made and and biotech in deals with china i mean this is on it
is here absolutely uh and i think the president gets it but we shall see a newly combative
donald trump has been seen on twitter of late and he's putting together i think a lot of dots that
need connecting these days well the ace of spades to trump the enemy is chai kham interference
it's the proof the russians couldn't wipe their ass with both hands nothing against him and this
is the key we play this card the first of them a card we win trump doesn't do it we lose he will
play the card he will execute order number 66 uh here's the one thing you can predict about donald
trump he's entirely unpredictable alex well we shall see i just saw the power i agree i thought
power to shape this narrative and to win in 2018 and 20 on it in my opinion well i just saw steven
corbera last night said it's a conspiracy theory that china's involved they're real scared of that
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your
doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a
challenge control your own health care costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health
share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going
to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org this is jessica arman founder of my magic mud our team
helped organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water supply this is
our passion my magic mud oral care purifies and brightens your smile naturally gcn listeners
please support my family business by purchasing our products from your local health food store
we're also available at cbs pharmacy or visit us at my magic mud dot com and take 10 off now
with coupon code gcm 10 i tried other brands but i came back to my sunshine for the best
hot or cold pain relief get the best get a sunny bay heating pad sometimes life can be a pain in
the neck or back or shoulder and the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad did you
know that the american college of physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is
heat therapy sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality can be used at home or at work
and have a lifetime 100 positive rating on both amazon and etsy why take another pill many people
use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain long distance travel or long hours
in front of a computer can take its toll on your body our homegrown small business tries to help
people just like us that's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we
introduce them to the public you can easily find sunny bay heating pads on amazon just go to amazon
dot com and search for sunny bay heating pads we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg
first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that
then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and
islamophobia and then voila two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major
platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot com
four slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever you're subscribing
your podcast in it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com four slash
newsletter and give us your email so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos
and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com four
slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they can then reach out to
others with the information and point out this is the verboten info this is what they don't want
you to see we are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the
site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider a
contribution twenty five fifty a hundred two fifty or even five hundred dollars would be a godsend
to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights hey how would you like to take info wars
with you wherever you go well now you could do just that with the new official info wars and
and here's the best part it is absolutely free at the apple store and google play you can join the
info war today check it out right now at info wars dot com forward slash app it's the info wars
official app taken on the globalist at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with
your help downloading it we are unstoppable you're listening to the alex jones show
this hit the drill it isn't a game it's the real world 2018 planet earth as pro-human pro-capital
defense forces wage counter-offensives against the megatech firms and the banks
now live with radical islam and the chai cons
roger stone i'm gonna let you take over here and i appreciate you hosting this hour ahead of the
war and we're also being on today but what do you make because we don't make it about ourselves
right now when they're censoring us and cutting us off every platform with our tens of millions
of followers from itunes to youtube to facebook tens of millions of subscribed people that they
would already not let us get to but not even cut that off and they're arrogance
what does trump need to do because we're here this is happening this is ongoing this is the big
issue this is the election fraud this is a discrimination now now that's one point i'm
going to ask you but secondarily let me ask you this one first let me ask question b b side first
we were number three on itunes android android today the brand new app three weeks ago that we
just launched they have to do this they're now both number one on news now trending
in the top 20 and one to be the number one app in the world and then cnn these are apps for
there for years aren't even this close cnn is ultimately involved here everywhere literally
lobbying for just us listed in the phone book just an app we paid for and put on to access us
there i mean that's like a hollywood movie like they don't want us on the baseball field we get
up we knock two grand slams and five home runs in a row i mean if they do this can you imagine a
jury with they went to number one and then they banned them i mean america and the world loves
number one they love they love antifa 10 to one attack in rufio and him knocking them out in defense
like a lion that it's so villainous like is how what do they think they're doing do they not
get what's happening what do you make of the info wars app the new one the info wars official all
the other apps are skyrocketing to our apps other apps screwed up apps but our info wars official
is literally having 10 000 people download it every couple minutes it's millions are downloading
and millions are signing up for the newsletter millions are going to info wars dot com forward
slash show it's over five plus million the last few days uh just to get our podcast direct from us
they have really jumped the shark yeah they've got our email shut off now they've they've got our
comment shut off so you evil people can't communicate with each other but that's only pissing
people off more hopefully that'll be up soon so yeah we're in the fight we're not saying we're
unscathed but god it's great to like have them do this and then i thought you know people would
respond to be upset and that would point out to congress what was happening so we could fight back
so we kind of sacrificially did this but this is going better than i thought a what do you
think's happening what do you think is cnn opening lobbying for their competition to be shut down
and be let's not start sucking each other's you know what's like the wolf says in pulp fiction
before we've actually got home the woods are lovely dark and deep miles ago before we sleep
how could they jerk our defeat out of the jaws of our victory well alex it's the free market
that's the marvel of it despite this near strangulation of info wars and the alex jones show
along with the war room and real news with david night oh david night had 10 million subscribers
its own level yeah 10 million subscribers i'm sorry to rub you're right they just blew him away
never a very gentle sorry go ahead go ahead and they're finding us and thank god they're still
buying our products because uh the legal costs in this are enormous it it is and has always
been a complex legal question uh as to by the way my legal cost last month was three find this
an egregious violation of our first amendment rights that argument has not prevailed in court
no but i agree but roger i'm gonna leave down companies i'm gonna likely to prevail is a uh
an anti monopolistic antitrust an argument or a argument that is based in contract law because
when we signed up and when we paid them for advertising let's say at facebook or or twitter
they entered into a contract with us that they have now violated uh this has to be attacked at all
levels roger in the courts uh on the streets in peaceful protest but that which does not kill us
makes us stronger and that's the effect that you refer to now no i agree and with skype sometimes
you can't hear me i've been jumping in obnoxiously i'm gonna leave here now i'm just asking this
question what do you make of cnn when we go to number one they've written like five articles it
was three now it's five five articles show saying band band band i mean doesn't america get that we're
number one now they've been on there for years we beat them and now they want us banned you just
type in uh cnn take alex jones off itunes that's an article from yesterday it's the one from today
there's like five articles today i mean that is so brazen i think that backfires on them roger
well alex i think i told you that i was recently in new york on business and uh when i left uh
the apartment where i was to leave for the airport you were on fox uh when i was in the cab i heard
at least three different reports about your being banned when i got to the airport of course it was
new york and cnn was on they were gleefully reporting that you had been banned uh when i got on the
plane and watched uh the news uh from my seat jet blue is excellent in that regard most of the news
was about alex jones they have merely catapulted your brand uh and more people will find us even
if they cannot find us that's my question you still go to the infowars site and sign up for our
podcasts now but that's my question roger what were they what were they thinking this is blown
up spectacularly in their face they'll probably just ban the apps but i'm like in a okay your
number one they ban your app i mean this is ridiculous uh it is uh it is brainless it's
mindless uh but let's recognize apple owns the the app store and they could banish us at any time
which is why despite our soaring spot uh you know uh people signing up it's essential that you go
sign up for the podcast directly at the info wars dot com site that way the chain of command will be
unbroken in the resistance by the way pull up the hill i hadn't seen that yeah there it is info wars
fans flocked at following recent bans so edge net the hill let's go back to the hill please
that's close croak like they're so un-american because i read the article earlier scroll down
they want us banned because we're popular this is this is totally blowing up in their face roger
they don't say though it's number one it's number one number one on android and app where do they
go from this so they even lie it's a day later like oh it's 34 spot no it's number one you goddamn
liars excuse me lord uh you know you're absolutely right alex uh but the the outpouring from the
info war community has been heartening the increase i can see in people buying my book stones rules
at the info war store buying any of our great nutraceuticals or or our t-shirts people want
to be part of this revolution buying our products as a vote how to find us buying our products as a
vote for freedom this is total war infowarstore.com stole coldtruth.com uh fight the bully save the
internet save info war super special huge sales aren't roger you take over i'm gonna go deal with
i can't even tell you what just happened during the last break i was told by an insider that youtube
says they got hijacked by operatives that would be reached out to i was told this last night
they just emailed during the last break 10 minutes ago and they said it was it was them saying
um we want you to appeal this we want to reinstate you right now so that's breaking news right now
good stuff's happening keep the pressure on folks america's still alive roger stone straight ahead
it's unscripted real it's obnoxious but it's real i'm obnoxious but i love you we'll be back with
roger stone stay with us if you like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to
love the dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic
waste and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel the dylan bottle increases the ph
up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it alkaline water is
healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to
be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co that's dyln.co
most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the us what if i told you for
just 54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract we've
been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it
check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305
hbxtrack.com don't risk it when you can take charge of it do you realize that when you spread the
links from info wars.com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you
that has defeated hillary and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood
against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have
now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading
the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important
than ever that everyone go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's
no way the censors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it
and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning info wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it
it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity
and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life
as well as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the funguses and the gut so this is the
time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products
you get them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high quality
products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you bodies sold out
at a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with it's sold out for another
month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and i think it's gonna be the same way
with this fiber get yours today info wars life dot com feeling your body is hard work that's why we've
introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life
everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the
powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful
probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired
with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel
your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas
can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's
no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't
miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today you're listening to the alex jones show you are listening to an info wars
dot com front line report if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance and
now your host roger stone welcome back you're on the alex jones show and yes i have done
a more subdued sports jacket my chapeau today my hat is a homage to matt drudge who i admire for
his standing tall in his coverage of the assault on alex jones and info wars when it comes to their
first amendment rights in what has been one of the most chilling things i have ever seen a tech
left litz creek of censorship has been visited on alex jones and the info wars site getting knocked
simultaneously off of facebook periscope spotify youtube's uh and others uh it is stunning uh the
obviousness of this takedown it's very important to note that is based solely on a mischaracterization
a distortion of the various things that alex jones and the folks at info wars have actually
said you don't have to agree with alex jones or anyone here uh at info wars uh to agree
that we have an absolute first amendment right to say it unfortunately uh that argument will
probably not prevail prevail in the courts uh because on the one hand while facebook and twitter
and others uh on that platform such as instagram claim to be the town square the public square
they in fact are privately owned companies perhaps it is time for them to be regulated like
utilities this would have to be done by the congress but there are other issues on which
they are vulnerable when i was banned at twitter uh shortly after my friend mylo was banned i vowed
to bring a legal action and i will but i let others who had been banned rush into that breach
to see which of their legal arguments with which stand early judicial examination and
could uh so could uh get beyond summary judgment the most uh favorable uh issues here
uh pertain to these behemoths in the tech left signing of contracts with people who sign up
they are also using antitrust and monopolistic practices to crowd out the competition while
at the same time engaging actively in shadow banning and a dozen other techniques uh in which
they manipulate the algorithms the reach uh and the presence of conservative voices
we're going to take your calls i want to stay focused on this issue but i also want to reflect
on something alice jones has said from the beginning because i must tell you i talked to him often
late at night uh and he's stoic in the face of this onslaught he's resolved to make info wars
bigger and more successful uh and to reach beyond those uh who listen to us now he is gratified
so many people in the community have rallied to our podcast rallied to our app application rallied
to the info wars dot com store uh where we are having record traffic on every front uh on terrestrial
radio the ratings are up for the alex jones show uh where it appears on television where many
stations have recently signed up uh our ratings are up the american people know the real deal
when they see it you don't have to agree with everything alex jones says to realize that he's
a patriot and his heart is in the right place and i'm tired of seeing the fake news left
and those on the technoth distort the things he has actually said on news events over the many
decades that he has covered them so if there were ever a time that info wars needs your assistance
that time would be now i urge you to go to the info wars store right now uh because we have some
terrific specials uh that i think are worthy of pointing out among others uh you can get my new
book stones rules at a terrific price on the info wars store dot com store with a special uh
uh offer that is available to info warriors only if you buy my new book stones rules which is a
field manual for victory it's the the uh a linsky manual for people who think we like we do
although it's applicable to anybody as a surefire uh list of axioms and guidelines that have uh
girded me for a 40 year career in the arena but if you buy it on the info wars dot com store
and you mail it to me uh at an address that we will give you here in south florida i will
gladly personalize uh the book for you uh and mail it back to you i stress that this is an offer
only available to info warriors uh and i was gratified when i returned from a recent business
trip to have well over a hundred books to sign and get out the door uh we're going to get you that
address before the end of the show uh but uh we we really hope you will patronize the store uh
you'll take a look at our nutraceuticals our t-shirts and so on uh the effort to censor
alice jones uh tied with the outrageous massively expensive harassment lawsuits launched by the
soros connected left uh and uh the uh and the vilification uh in the mainstream media in which
words are put in his mouth and things and thoughts and theories and memes are attributed to him
that he never said uh is a kafka-esque nightmare uh and now this recent assault
makes it all the more important that you take your favorite links from info wars
and you post them to your own social media and you take the very best of the war room
and you send it to everybody on your email friend list on your instagram friend list
on your facebook friend list you can be an army of one for freedom if you support the president
if you support his agenda if you oppose the globalists if alice jones makes you laugh
and entertains you at the same time he educates you about a different non neocon view of the world
well then we need his voice he has to be part of a vibrant robust alternative media
that's based in a free internet the bad guys are clear google apple who has sold their soul
to the chinese uh many others of these giant silicon valley uh monsters now seek to rig
the very next election we're going to take calls in the next segment but the unequal handling
on facebook and twitter and so on a republican and democratic candidates in view of advertising
raises a whole new battlefield on which uh the left can be defeated under the laws of the united
states it is a stunning strategic error on their part to treat candidates who are republicans
and democrats differently this is a giant mistake by the opposition if you read stone's rules you
know we wait for and pounce upon those mistakes thanks for joining us here on the alex jones
show uh grab your copy of stone's rules uh and uh we'll send you we'll just put up the address
here in a bit where you can send it for your personalized copy it would be my pleasure much
to talk about we're taking your calls in the next segment let's put up the phone number if we are
able to do that uh and uh we will get you on the info wars hotline we'll be right back we knew it
was coming the whole thing was for me leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man
then sue us to add credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with
nebulous terms like bullying children and islamophobia and then voila two weeks later ban info wars
completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds
go to info wars dot com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to
info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact
with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about
info wars dot com forward slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they
can then reach out to others with the information point out this is the verboten info this is what
they don't want you to see i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes
here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water
filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info wars store dot com you are
funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase
the products at info wars store dot com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best
fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you
cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's
my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three
three one three nine and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands
with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are
and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
we are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now
if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider a contribution
25 50 100 250 or even 500 dollars would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back
the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle
our first amendment rights hey how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go well
now you could do just that with the new official info wars and here's the best part it is absolutely
free at the apple store and google play you can join the info war today check it out right now
hit it for us dot com forward slash app it's the info wars official app taken on the globalist at
point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it we are unstoppable
the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the
most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one
of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties
our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more
regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1 to 5 percent of active ingredients
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines
turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for
full body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at 1-88-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show
this is bernie sanders and i know a lot of my supporters may not believe this but i listen
to roger stone whenever he's on info wars it's a great program at least in my opinion
welcome back to the alex jones show as i promised we're gonna take your calls in just a moment
one of the things that i have found heartening was the fact that folks like matt drudge and
tucker carlson uh the folks at bright bart now laura ingram this morning uh all standing up
and objecting to the uh strangulation of the first amendment rights of alex jones
they understand you stand you don't have to agree with everything alex jones says to
recognize that he has a right to say it uh and therefore i salute them uh and others such as
mike savage who have been uh who have had the cojones to speak up but recognize that
this wave of censorship if it is successful in silencing alex jones and info wars is headed
to a broader series of targets they're already manipulating algorithms and shadow banning
conservatives across the board and it would be foolish not to think that effective patriots
like uh sean hannity uh and tucker carlson rush limbaugh and others are not next so let's go
to first of all pastor sam calling again from mexico always calling in with great questions
and observations welcome to the alex jones show pastor sam hi roger great to talk to you
uh i'd just like to point out that big wars they don't start in washington or even a murder
unimportant corners of the world like the balkans the icky stands and in this case the
banana republics and i believe that trump is pressing the issues there are so many corrupt
politicians that are going to jail in country south america and central america right now
i believe that trump has heard the cry of not only the people of the united states of america but
of the americans as a whole and that political corruption is really starting to be cracked
down on and setting a precedent for the jailing with people like the cadastres and hillary clinton
well i like the sentiments of your call but i am not one who subscribes to some online theories
that there are someplace hundreds of sealed indictments against some of the most leading
criminals uh in the obama and clinton orbit or that jeff session has some secret plan that will
suddenly be unveiled on a future given date proving that he isn't the worst attorney general in
american history uh and that he is not supporting uh is uh boss the president uh but some kind of
genius i just don't subscribe to that view what we clearly have in this country is the uneven
application of justice where democrats uh and insiders are not held to the same legal standards
as republicans and outsiders uh and where uh the instruments of government including uh
surveillance uh in violation of our constitution uh are used uh in a witch hunt to try to not only
deny down from the presidency but to create an insurance policy uh and a narrative to be used
to take him down if in the improbable uh uh course of events he won the presidency it's a great call
i thank you for calling uh pastor sam what's going on in mexico what do you see
uh i wondered on the conditions in mexico the last time we spoke uh you had there was a great
deal of violence and unrest okay i'm i'm sorry we've lost our caller let's go to uh jim in florida
my home state jim in another call here if we can it's an honor and a privilege to talk to you
mr stone thank you jim what's on your mind um i i there was only two points i had i'm a hundred
percent disabled veteran uh former military officer uh i had my all expense paid vacation to
beautiful sony southeast asia and uh that that wasn't such a good time but uh i have gotten 25
people uh who are veterans to call up our local brevard county you know representative and uh
to talk to our congress people and it's a small contribution but the thing is is that this
internet censorship this violates our first amendment rights um we can't put up with
and we've got to stand up to this and and if other veterans i don't care if they're disabled or
quite well and healthy or what war they came from but if they if they could each get a lot of
their friends to call up and complain it's like for every call one of the congressmen gets
they know there's a hundred people that are annoyed with this situation and most people won't get off
the couch pick up the phone and do something and i'm just trying to get everybody uh in particular
veterans to get off the couch and do something well first of all obviously we thank you for your
service secondarily a shout out to my many many friends in brevard county uh but uh the caller
is absolutely right jim is absolutely right the key uh is to light up your congressmen about the
dangers of internet censorship and the fact that even republican candidates for reelection
will be disadvantaged as these uh tech left companies manipulate their political advertising
rules and their standards to deny republicans equal access to this important medium so uh reach out
now and contact your congressman whether you're a veteran or whether you are not uh i'm roger stone
it has been my privilege to be here today on the alex jones show when they uh dropped this bomb of
semper censorship on alex jones he told me something big is up this is the precursor of
something big it is not no surprise to the listeners of uh info wars or the alex jones show
that i have a runaway special prosecutor in robert miller investigating every aspect every molecule
of my life my personal life my family life my political life my business life i reasonably
that i was under a fisa warrant uh and illegally surveilled i think i have been on more recent
under more recent surveillance and i can tell you definitively there is no russian collusion there is
no wiki leagues collaboration there is a no nonsense regarding john pedestas emails there
is no hacking of emails or any other material uh that is a conspiracy theory spun by the left
but like alex jones i face multi-million dollar lawsuits sore loser suits from an obama affiliated
in directed group on the left the democratic national committee uh a surging senate intelligence
committee investigation the senate judiciary committee investigation and of course now we know
as cnn has reported uh mr muller is investigating my finances numerous of my associates have been
taken before a grand jury but i am guilty of no crime in connection with the 2016 election
or anything else the witch hunt continues uh i am not a wealthy man online stories that say roger
stone is worth 20 million our bogus uh posted most likely by david brock or some other left wing
crank uh this threatens to destroy me and my family uh these bills are draining as i prepare
a defense please go to stone defense fund dot com uh to help us in this vital fight
stone defense fund dot com uh that's actually well there it is we have a better version of that but
stone defense fund dot com uh and god will bless you and stop by the info wars dot com store uh to
make a special contribution to them in their time of need these are these are linked uh uh issues
folks because they would like to deny me the info wars platform uh when they launch some illicit
attempt to frame me or railroad me in an attempt to squeeze me to testify against my friend of
40 years donald trump that is something i will not do stone defense fund dot com many thanks uh
and uh remember uh this fight the fight over internet censorship is about you whether you
like him or not we are all alex jones now this is about all of our right to a free vibrant and open
internet and the kind of discourse that allowed for the greatest upset in american history we must
fight uh for our right to free speech and communications god bless you patrick in the great
nation of australia you're on the air worldwide thanks for holding hey um i've been following
you since i was 14 and i'm 32 now i remember back when info wars and prison planet it was just blue
text on a white screen and they had to load down the page on my dial-up internet and i thought it
was pretty cool and read all the books and seen all the dvds and followed all your guests and i've
been using your product since the first iteration of survival shield and since then i'm on the x2
the super male vitality the caveman the real red pill micro zx body it's all amazing thank you brother
yeah and i wanted to say that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing the mind
you're detoxing the body you're detoxing the spirit and it's just the more you know god the more
you fear god but the more you chase god and i wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side
with you the crew and the listeners out there 1776 worldwide staying healthy on the go is just as
important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info
wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle
available in one ounce three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the
bathroom kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for
daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing
formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with
powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful
cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and
affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle
only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
