Only 84 days left, the most important election in U.S. history.
The balance not just of this country but the world is in the balance.
The Chai Cops are now openly involved in the manipulation of our internal elections in
a big way.
I'm going to go to a special report and come back, I'm going to re-kick off the transmission
because we could not have more mentis things to deal with, more momentis issues to cover.
And I'm just telling every listener and viewer, if you just tuned in for the first time, find
out who we really are, not what the corporate media has to say about us and realize whether
you're listening.
On local radio stations or TV stations or whether you are listening to us online, however
you're listening or watching, spread the word because they're attempting to snuff out not
just our First Amendment but your First Amendment right now and even the Washington Times has
one of their military correspondents and Fox News contributors saying they believe the
Chai Cops are behind my de-platforming.
But first I'm going to go to this short report, H3 Podcast Stream is terminated for talking
about Alex Jones.
We reported this over the weekend but there's many examples of this but now we actually have
the video.
Here it is.
Alex Jones, you all know him, the notorious conspiracy theorist, right wing.
I want to say a lot of people consider him right, right wing.
I don't consider him right wing, I consider him an alien.
I feel like making him affiliated with a political party is like trying to pin down what country
you exist to on Mars.
He was recently banned by YouTube, Apple, Spotify and Facebook, banned.
All the channels removed.
Just days after banning Alex Jones from their platform, YouTube cut off the popular H3
Stream just minutes after they began discussing Alex Jones and for what it's worth, they
were defending YouTube.
I don't think he really believes what he said, like about all the crazy stuff that he
did.
Well, that's definitely debatable.
Hey guys, let me cut in real quick, yeah, wow, we just got taken down by YouTube, they
just killed our stream.
Really?
Yep.
Why?
Community guidelines.
Wow.
We can't even show his footage.
What?
What?
Are you fucking stupid?
I'm not.
Because it's been removed?
We were live streaming and right as we were getting into it, you guys saw, if you're watching
the VOD, YouTube and they're infinite with them, removed our live stream and gave us
a strike, which basically when you get a strike, you can't live stream anymore.
So some genius over at LiveTube, I'm having a fucking, you see what's doing to me?
My whole rant as I was just getting into was very, I'm taking YouTube side, that Alex
Jones is a crazy conspiracy theorist who violated the terms of service, was doing all this shit
that by YouTube's terms of service shouldn't be allowed and what the fuck does YouTube
do?
They're like, you know what we need to do, Ethan is defending us, Ethan is defending
us against Alex Jones right now.
Do you know what we can do in one fell swoop to legitimize Alex Jones and to piss Ethan
off and turn him against us, let's shut his channel down and give him a strike mid-lifestream.
It's brilliant.
Let's do that.
Shut it down.
I'll fade this down.
What the fuck?
Full reports on infowars.com.
This is being done to a lot of people.
It's called deplatforming.
It's like China.
If you talk about the dictator looking like Winnie the Pooh, you get banned from the internet.
It's a global social score and you guys complying with it, all you podcasters going along with
it are going to bring it into America.
This is the admitted global plan.
Now, when we come back, ladies and gentlemen, the big news is straight ahead.
They are preparing the fake inward tape.
We've been warning of this for years and of course YouTube deleted our video about it detailing
how they can do it.
They already had it.
They would have already used it.
Cleaning your body is hard work, that's why we've introduced the infowars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
Being paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the infowars life daily digestive pack today.
There's a big event coming, a group of big events, a firestorm, we're now only 84 days
out from the most important election in U.S. history, November 8, 2016 only established
the beach had to return to the Republic.
Prosperity began to come almost instantly as the globalist boot was lessened on our
neck.
But now they're striking back with every form of propaganda and disinformation they've
got and they're deplatforming and banning conservatives, nationalists and patriots
across the board as communist China spreads its wicked winge.
I'm Alex Jones and this is the tip of the spear.
This is the info war.
Why is Amarosa out there floating this fake inward tape that she's never heard or never
seen but some aides told her they might have heard.
It's all been cooked up from the beginning according to our inside sources that warned
of Amarosa when he first hired her that she was a Trojan horse set up to make sure the
black vote doesn't go to Trump.
Why are they panicking?
With African Americans and Hispanics, Trump's numbers have doubled the last year.
No Republicans ever had such support.
The landslides accelerating.
The Democratic Party wants to keep folks on the plantation and to stop things like this.
We are drugged out.
We are following other people's opinions.
We are controlled by the media.
Today it all changes.
This reality has been forced upon us.
It is a choice just like what I said slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing expecting a different result.
So we keep on saying I hate you.
I hate you.
You f**k you.
I hate you.
How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love?
Why don't we just try love?
We have the resources for a peaceful world.
You know, sometimes you need some crazy mother***** to change something.
Steve Jobs is crazy.
Now we all know Steve Jobs phones.
They say Trump's crazy.
They say I'm crazy.
But I'm here to show love.
It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Thanks to Tyrants is obedience to God.
It's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, again, thank you for joining us on this Tuesday Worldwide Broadcast.
Hard to believe it's already the 14th day of August 2018.
We have a lot of news obviously to break down and a lot of news to cover here.
They are cracking down not just on my shelf, but thousands of other prominent nationalists
and conservatives in organized crime.
They have CNN and the mainstream corporate media lying about what we've said and done
to build the straw man and then have us de-platformed to set the precedent for everyone else to
be de-platformed.
And it's all moving into high gear.
Now coming up in the next segment, I'm going to lay out the scientific facts, the evidence
what we covered a year and a half ago about Photoshop for voice faces backlash two years
ago.
They released it to a limited group, had to pull it back because it can break voice print
codes.
It is indistinguishable from the real person's voice.
Because they can get a recording of you for even 30 seconds, they can perfectly fake it.
And now you know they would have used an N-word tape if they had it back during the election
or after, but they haven't.
So now it's, oh, AIDS talking about, yeah, we hear there's one, he feels real bad about
it as if you can't get operatives inside the White House, which we know happened.
We know Amarosa, we warned about Trump Iron to begin with.
Roderstone's joining us at the bottom of the hour.
We know that it's very easy for people to then sit there and basically repeat rumors
or say whatever they want.
And then that becomes the thing that counters double the number of black Americans, Hispanic
Americans supporting Trump as they see the economy coming back, optimism, you know, the
lie about saying he hates all Mexicans and says they're all rapists and criminals.
Never was said.
He said a lot of great people coming across, he's one of the better they are.
She's also got a lot of rapists and murderers coming across, which is totally true.
And the left is so behind covering the stuff that when the guy shoots Kate Steinland in
the back and she dies, the government and the system says she's wonderful out in San
Francisco and they let her go.
They let the killer go.
You know, he admits he shot her in the back.
And there's other examples of that coming up today with all these Islamic terror attacks
that we've been seeing with Westminster.
That's it's been attacked several times by cars.
Four people run over.
Thank God none of them are dead.
We've got hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cars all over Sweden with a Stockholm
syndrome burned by Islamic gangs.
You've got the media for a week with the report and the police saying they found a dead body
of a child who'd been tortured and some type of ritual reportedly, according to the police
allegedly, but they have now met there's a dead body and underground tunnels and all
these weapons.
But they had witnesses that talked to the kids and others that gave them tips.
They were starving to death and didn't have water or being trained for this.
And the liberal judge because they got up and said, oh, you're racist.
Oh, you're bad.
Oh, you're evil.
The lawyer got up and said that for the five Muslim men who were connected to the famous
mosque and all the rest of it in the world, trade center bombing and the early 1990s.
She releases them on $20,000 bond.
That's $2,000 you have to pay and waves that fee all together and says she feels sorry
for them.
So that's the level of censorship.
That's the level of virtue signaling that's going on that the lawyer, I have the transcript
here for the Islamist said that if they were white or Christian, they wouldn't be here.
We have that video and audio coming up as well.
And it's just crazy if you are Christian and a compound rubber tires around it and underground
tunnels with starving people and they found the body of a dead kid who got reported missing
from another state and the families are calling the police saying, please do something.
And they just released people who had the body admittedly of a dead child who died in
a ritual.
According to witnesses know if you were a group of white people or black people or Hispanics
or anybody else and you were out in a compound with tunnels in the ground and there's a dead
body and the witnesses that called about it said they're training to go do school shootings
and attack police, you would not be released from jail five days after you got arrested.
But that's what I mean you can't even hardly find in the news that these are Islamic attacks
in Sweden or Islamic attacks in England or Islamic attacks going on constantly.
That's coming up as well.
And then obviously the big story, all the censorship is going on and how it's expanding
and how people have got to counter it.
But first the whole Amarosa situation when we come back
from the break on the other side, it's just this is the coordinated attempt by the globalist
to bring this country down.
Let me stop right there.
Because everyone knows we have had unmitigated attacks, they're trying to take our servers
down right now.
They are filing false reports, criminal false reports, corporations, individuals, boards
of governors and privately traded companies are defaming us with the claims they put out
in the news for PR and a curry favor with big tech.
It's all happening.
This is how they shut down America.
This is how they bring the Chinese style credit score to America.
This is how they bring you can neither buy nor sell to America if you're not a good globalist.
They've taken us off 26 platforms.
They're trying to get our credit card processing right now.
They kicked us off.
Freddie O after we were kicked off Adrol last year saying that we're promoting hatred
when all we were selling was water filters, air filters and high quality supplements.
We are being put into a electronic gulag, we're being removed from the electronic ghetto,
the electronic gulag.
We're moving from being shadow banned to totally banned and it's an incredibly dangerous time.
And I want to thank you all for your support and thank you all for spreading the word.
But the globalists are better.
You're going to forget about what they've done to us and everybody else and just move
on.
No, this is the big issue for Congress, for the president, I had a stack in there from
last night when I went live until 10 and I really needed bad.
It had the new senator Warner stuff where he wants EU style censorship and to shut down
quote fake news.
And then I had the Chris Murphy news and all the rest of it saying shut us down.
So they're all official now saying they're coming for all of you.
Now we have the only news app that has a 5.0 rating, a perfect rating and is number one.
And so that they obviously want to shut that down too.
That's how un-American these people are.
They want to control what you here and see and they're allied with the greatest mass
murders in history, the chicoms.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Get the ultimate knife at an ultimate price.
The Fox Carambit knife, finally available in the U.S. The Fox Carambit knife opens
with one hand faster than you can pull a handgun for utility, for defense and for way less
than other knives of this caliber.
Go to theultimateknife.com, truly the best knife you will ever own and only available
at theultimateknife.com.
Use promo code radio at checkout for free shipping.
Get the ultimate knife at the ultimate price at theultimateknife.com.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share
the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Researches in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal
immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site
now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider
a contribution, $25, $50, $200, $250, even $500 would be a godsend to our important work
here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they
want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey, how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go?
Well, now you could do just that with the new official info wars end and here's the
best part.
It is absolutely free at the Apple Store and Google Play.
You can join the info war today.
Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the info wars official app taken on the globalist at point blank range and with your
help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show coming to you from the former United States of America
from deep in the heart of Texas.
Alex Jones, okay, I'm going to get into this operation inward that the Democrats in the
deep state have launched to try to keep black Americans and others on the Democratic Party
Plantation because they are absolutely waking up and coming over to the side of Trump and
I'm seeing it on the ground with everybody I know as very, very exciting.
So right on time, this whole thing comes in here to derail that if they had a tape of
Trump doing this, if NBC had a tape or anybody else had a tape, they would have already played
that tape back in the election and they would already be trying to leverage that on Trump.
Trump has denied it.
He says it's not true and he says they also heavily edited the famous thing from him,
you know, 14 years ago or whatever, 13 years ago on the Bush where they're out there recording
him knowing he's miked up about to come out.
Imagine being the president now surrounded everybody with phones.
They're trying to edit it.
They're trying to take it out of context.
It's incredible and I've experienced this with Megan Kelly.
YouTube has now deleted the video that had millions of views where I showed what I did
live on air, unedited, where I said, I don't know if Hillary's running child sex rings,
but I know she represented child molesters in court, made jokes about it, said she didn't
care.
Her husband settled a bunch of rape cases.
They're in bed with Epstein politically, fly her on on his airplane.
He's a known child sex trafficker.
But her funding the Middle East and her funding the Arab Spring has killed hundreds of thousands
of innocent people, tens of thousands of women and children, sold into sex slavery.
And then I showed news articles, so I said, so she is guilty of raping and murdering children
because in the, under federal law and common law, if you're the mafia boss and you order
a murder, you're just as guilty as the person that does the murder.
In fact, more, it's capital murder.
It's premeditated.
So I said, so she is guilty.
That was video sitting here in this chair with an American flag behind me, whole nine
yards.
They took it, edited it, played audio on Fox News, Megan Kelly saying I said there were
kids in a basement and that she murdered him.
They edited two different shows together.
That is criminal.
That is pure evil.
So I've experienced this and I've seen him say that Trump took Martin Luther King's bust
out.
It was right there in the video or they didn't even visit Congressman's police or he fed
the fish wrong or blah, blah, blah.
And by the way, we have some cards in the deck.
We haven't played dealing with what Trump thinks about black people and I've been asked
not to play those cards.
So I'm not going to play those cards.
Will ask me not to.
I won't, but it's the truth.
Robert Stone is joining us for the next segment.
I want to play little snippets of the edited audio that CBS is playing and then I want
to show you what the real issue here is because this is mainstream news right here.
Senate Democrats are circulating plans for government takeover of the internet.
That's reason.com.
They're already doing it.
They're already doing it.
You don't announce an operation when you're doing it.
We're in the middle of it.
Zero heads.
The revenge of Hillary.
Senator Mark Warner proposes the end of free speech a week after this came out in reason
he now goes public and says, yeah, we're going to adopt EU rules that totally shut down free
speech.
I told you, Google and Facebook are going under EU fines.
That's why this is coming here and the Chinese are involved.
This is foreign powers meddling in the internet.
Trump's leaving the web alone as Mr. Capitalist, but that's the same as giving it to China
and the EU, Mr. President.
Senator Murphy, info wars the tip of a giant iceberg of hate and lies that uses sites like
Facebook and YouTube to tear our nation apart.
These companies must do more than take down a website.
The survival of democracy depends on it.
They mean their corrupt globalist system.
And then Num Chomsky for four days warns this is pure evil.
No one covers it but drudge.
They're making their move.
Now, before I go to this tape, let's look at these articles right here.
This is from years ago and you can go to info wars.com and read our articles about it.
But our videos demonstrating it are gone.
We'll have to redo the videos demonstrating how we can record my voice and have me just
read out the newspaper for 30 seconds and then you can type in what you want it to say.
And in a minute, it translates it and is my voice.
And you could have me never saying the n-word and you could have me saying whatever you
want it.
You could have me saying the most outlandish things adobe creates voice photoshop.
The technology allows users to alter speakers words 2016.
But the censors say, nope, we can't see that now.
All destroyed photoshop for voices faces backlash.
They put it on the market.
The ABC reported pulled it off because it allows people to take public recordings and
then get voice prints, whatever you want and frame people.
So that's the report.
Read about adobe voco and there's many other programs that do it.
You've all seen, you know, 20 years ago, forest gump shaking hands with JFK.
It never happened.
This is how they fake it.
This is how they do it.
So if they had this type, they would have released it.
But now they get people talking about rumors, people who denied it, people that said that
you know that it hadn't been said with this Frank Luntz.
And then now again, it's back to it.
And then obviously if they're hypothetically talking about what if this comes out, then
they're going to discuss how to spin it.
So these are all highly edited tapes.
Someone illegally recorded a lot of this in the situation room.
This is just amazing.
Let's go ahead and go to that tape.
In her new book, Unhinged, Omarosa claims the Trump campaign was aware of the existence
of the tape.
She describes an October 2016 phone conversation with Lynn Patton, then assistant to Eric
Trump, spokesperson Katrina Pearson and campaign communications director Jason Miller, in which
they discuss how to deal with the potential fallout from its release.
I'm trying to find out at least the context it was used in to help us maybe try to figure
out a way to spin it.
Patton then described a conversation she had with then candidate Trump about making the
slur.
I said, well, can you think of any time that this might have happened and he said no.
Well, that's not true.
So how do you think I should handle it, and I told him exactly what you just said, Omarosa,
which is, well, if he comes on what scenario you're talking about, and he said, well, why
don't you just go ahead and put it to bed?
I don't know what the scandal is.
He said it.
He's a man.
Pearson denied the call, ever took place.
It wasn't in.
Back to soap.
Notice they're saying Trump said he didn't do it.
So they're just wargaming.
What if this is real?
And he goes, no, it's not real.
And Omarosa goes, no, that's not true.
She's in there recording this, setting everybody up, and they can't even get what they want.
And so now they're trying to pick this all apart because people sat there and wargamed
it.
Let's continue.
Pearson denied the call, ever took place during an interview on Fox News Monday night.
Katrina Kirsten said he said it.
Did that happen?
No, Ed, that did not happen.
It sounds like she's writing a script for a movie.
By the way, hit pause again.
CBS thinks you're stupid.
We're going to go over this some more today.
She said he denied it.
Omarosa goes, that's not true until she's recording a phone call.
So what she's saying is it isn't true that he did say he said it, not that she didn't
have the phone call.
And imagine trying to remember all this while Omarosa, who begged for the job, is running
around this reality TV star with the recording wanting to be somebody big in mainstream media.
Unbelievable.
Roger Stone's coming up.
Please remember, without you, you are who finances InfoWars.
We won't be here.
Go get some.
Meena's a Wolverine.
Re-elect 45.
InfoWars.com.
Molan Lave shirts, they're all there.
There's no excuse not to support free speech at InfoWars.
We've got the globalists on the run, but we need your support now more than ever.
Who has the only raw living whole plant hemp CBD extract in the world?
MetaHemp Solutions, a radically innovative approach to hemp CBDs for exceptional results.
Why?
Because they contain absolutely all the elements present in the original plant.
All our hemp CBD products are independently lab tested for potency and purity and manufactured
in our FDA registered facility.
Try it today.
10% off with coupon code GCM10.
Call 833-858-7500, that's 833-858-7500, or buy MetaHemp Solutions today at METAHempSolutions.com.
That's MetaHempSolutions.com.
This is Jessica Arman, founder of My Magic Mud.
Our team helped organize a successful effort to remove fluoride from our city's water
supply.
This is our passion.
My Magic Mud Oral Care purifies and brightens your smile naturally.
GCN listeners, please support my family business by purchasing our products from your local
health food store.
We're also available at CDS Pharmacy.
Or visit us at MyMagicMud.com and take 10% off now with coupon code GCN10.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue line, Super
Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1 ounce, 3.5 ounce, and 16 ounce bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the
bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only
available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this
country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield, InfoWarsLife.com.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize InfoWars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility
to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and Islamophobia.
And then wallah.
Two weeks later ban InfoWars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were
all in the top five or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter and give us your
emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our
own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, forward slash show, how they can download
the free Android and iPhone apps.
How they can then reach out to others with the information, point out, this is the verboten
info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Raging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones.
I wanted to get Roger Stone, former head of the Trump campaign on because when Trump was
getting ready to hire Amarosa, he flipped out on air and I know begged the White House
not to do it, warned them.
Here's Morgan has come out and said that she tried to get him to have sex with her to win
celebrity apprentice.
You can hear these tapes, you don't know if they're talking about the grabber by the
way.
You know what tape, this tape, did Trump say the N word, no, he says he didn't.
No one's saying they heard a tape of this.
This is all just rumors and innuendo of a lady running around with a phone for almost
a year inside the White House and before that working with the campaign.
But she's got a history and Haiti too, so we're talking to Roger about this, but this
is how they try to derail things.
Meanwhile, even mainstream news is having to admit that the Chai comms are more and more
taking control of this country and that they are the ones financing and pushing the takedown
of yours truly off of the Internet.
Alex Jones is right.
China is the threat and it may be too late.
The Washington Times, L Todd Wood, who's a national security advisor to Fox News contributor,
military veteran from special operations, I'm not going to get into all the things he's
done from the U.S. Air Force Academy, but he lays it out right here, some other scholarly
work that everything is Chai comm run except the military and a few branches of the government.
They totally took us over with the help of the Democrats and the globalists.
Remember, when somebody's trying to get us back under the control of the people and bring
back prosperity that the Chai comms are literally manipulating and controlling Hollywood and
Netflix and all of it.
All this anti-American stuff, all this race war stuff, all the sexualization of children,
that's all illegal in China, but they're doing it here.
We'll be getting into that.
That report is on infowars.com, but you guys tweet this out on Watson's Twitter and on
my place, please tweet it from the Washington Times, not from the infowars.
I did post it in full.
I don't normally do that, but it's all about me and it's very, very accurate.
So I posted the whole thing at infowars.com, but I'm going to tweet the Washington Times
version to the world because it's so important.
So understanding the threat, there it is.
We'll get more into that coming up and the censorship that's happening.
But right now, let me lay this out.
They are suing us and trying to shut us down.
Those suits aren't going well, but it's costing hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars
for the big suits to defeat them.
And they've got three Sandy Hook lawsuits.
They've got a bunch of others that are very, very serious.
If they can shut us down, it will be a big victory for the globalists, ladies and gentlemen.
And they admit a overturning of the New York Times versus Sullivan and basically the First
Amendment.
So we can defeat this and we can be strong.
They're trying to take our payment processors, they've taken our credio, third party advertising
so we can't advertise on platforms, just supplements and air filtration, water filtration.
We're not just here on air trying to get you to finance this operation.
I reach out to other audiences and advertise, spend a lot of money to bring in the money
we need to fund this operation.
I love capitalism and I love businessmen and women.
This is a Patriot military operation, a organic resistance to the globalist.
And so that's how I see it, is I'm an independent Texan, I'm an American.
I knew the globalists were trying to take over.
I built a system to fight them.
We've been successful.
We've helped reboot the resistance worldwide, not just here.
And the enemy knows that.
So do you know how important Info Wars is?
I know a lot of you do.
Pray for us, support us, spread the articles, the videos.
Help people by hand with little cards, find out about verboten Info Wars.
You've done it.
We have the 5.0 app.
The only app in the app store that's news, we're number one in both formats of Android
and Apple.
I tweeted this out at Real Alex Jones and put it on screen place.
It is number one and it is a 5.0.
Just go to Real Alex Jones on Twitter, like I said during the break.
Got a setup for that, just go to Real Alex Jones on Twitter and it's one of the tweets
from today that it's a 5.0 in the Apple store.
And so that's why they're trying to get rid of it.
That's why they're trying to remove it is because we launched it a month ago and it
went into the top 40, unheard of.
Then it shot past the New York Times, CNN, Fox News, everything to the top.
They don't know what to do.
It's going to go to number one period very, very soon, not just in news.
So what happens when you're number one?
CNN lobbies to have it removed.
That is Chinese Communist type behavior and they have military officers in high level
Pentagon positions saying, no, it's the chai comms.
Well, I was told it was.
I was talking about Apple officially moving to China, Google helping sensor over there
and here, and we're helping put oxygen into that fire that'll save the country.
And I'm a patriot and I love all of you and I know you appreciate me, but I'm just telling
you need to go to info or store.com and you need to get products that are game changing
like our vitamin mineral fusion fruit punch for adults and children with the amino acids
or DNA force plus other leading brands are $300.
It's discounted to 70 something dollars.
Very expensive PQQ CoQ tenant, just huge levels in it alpha power, stamina, energy, libido.
It's so turbo charged.
Be careful when you take it.
You know, just it's, it's, it's, it's amazing.
Supermold vitality.
Supermold vitality, cold press, very similar to alpha power, but different formula.
All super blue products, fluoride free, colloidal silver, fortified toothpaste, fluoride free
toothpaste, fortified, colloidal silver and iodine for adults and children, sign up for
things like wake up America coffee, the toothpaste, supermold vitality, X two things you're going
to want to reorder every 15 days, every 30, every six months, you can click, you get
5% off each deal with patriot points, you get 10% off on top of that when you sign up
for auto ship.
We got free shipping store wide right now on top of it.
These are really good deals, bio true selenium selenium is an amazing thing.
People die without it.
You have to have that.
You have to have iodine.
It's a chemical using the brain.
We have it from the mustard seed, the purest selenium you're going to find organic out
there bio true selenium.
They're all 50 to 40% off right now and free shipping info or store.com info wars life.com
or triple eight two five three three one three nine and please support all our local affiliates.
Please be sponsors for them as well.
But whatever you do understand this is a war and if they can shut us down, we have the
Democrats officially saying they're going after everybody and I want to spend a few
minutes on that with Roger Stone who's being sued by Obama and the globalists and everybody
else.
They're trying to set him up as well.
We'll get into Amoroso when we come back.
But the few minutes we have here, I just read earlier when we started this segment.
The Democrats are it was secret documents a month ago.
Now they're officially saying we're going to go with the EU model and the Chinese model
and we're going to have credit scores and if you criticize the government or anybody,
you're not going to be able to buy or sell and we're going to find everybody and we're
going to end freedom for our democracy.
Those are quotes.
This is there should be millions in the streets calling for the resignations.
They have gone pure authoritarian Roger and they're planning something big in the next
84 days before the election, I believe.
It's been amazing is the way you called this from the very beginning.
The phony harassment lawsuits distorting what you said about Sandy Hall distorting what
you said about other important matters in the media.
The false accusations against you that you were grooming someone who worked at info wars
for gay sex.
The most ridiculous thing I've ever heard.
These were all laid out there to generate distorted negative headlines.
Then they take those headlines and they use them as the rationale to bump info wars and
everything we do here off of all of these important social media platforms.
It's insidious.
It was a plan.
It was formulaic and you called it from the very beginning.
Well, I've seen what they've done in other countries, what they've done where they're
banning speech in France and in Brazil.
We're going to talk about this more a little bit in the next hour.
I'm going to come back into Amorosa and their big play, obviously, to get minorities not
to vote for Republicans in the midterms and not to vote for their American birthright and
freedom.
They've been doing the similar things to you, Roger, and the reason they had to panic and
fully deplatform us is it wasn't working.
But think about how bold that is, listeners and viewers, to literally begin unpersoning
someone off of every platform and then targeting those that even talk about you or show you.
This is the total end of free speech using the big Google, Facebook system to censor
everybody with the head of Apple orchestrating the whole thing from his slave factories
in China.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info Wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact
filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing
220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the
Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why Info Wars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new Platinum
Standard of Advanced Multivitamin Formulation Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today.
Available at InfoWarsStore.com.
that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost
included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow
Info Wars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
Ramate Leaf Extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfoWarsStore.com.
Patrick, in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide.
Thanks for holding.
Hey, Alex, mate.
I've been following you since I was 14, and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Info Wars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen,
and I had to load down the page on my dial-up into there, and I thought it was pretty cool.
I've read all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests, and I've
been using your product since the first iteration of Survival Shield, and since then, I'm on
the X2, the Super Male Vitality, the Caveman, the Real Red Pill, micro-ZX body, it's all
amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing
the mind, you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit, and it's just the more
you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God, and I wanted to say that
it's an honor to stand side-by-side with you, the crew, and the listeners out there, 1776
worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones is on fire after organized car fire-bombing blitz.
Another car rammed into four pedestrians at Parliament in England, defending the Republic
from enemies, foreign, and domestic.
It's Alex Jones, a liberal judge from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide from the InfoWars.com
studios.
A liberal judge just released five people living in an armed compound with tunnels of starving
children and the dead body of a young teenage boy because their lawyer said it was racist
to hold them.
Even though witnesses and people that conduct the police said that they were allegedly training
for mass shootings and an uprising to kill police, Vimeo said that when I reported that
it was fake news and banned me two days ago, I am sworn to defend this Republic.
And I got to tell you, Roger Stones here with us for this segment and the next, I want to
get into the whole Amorosa thing, but Roger, they are working around the clock to take
our servers down right now.
I've got to have people up here at like midnight just to keep InfoWars.com up.
NewsWars.com is up.
PrisonPlanet.com is up.
Europe Wars was down earlier today with stuff going on.
I mean, we are under DDoS attacks, everything, and it just becomes the normal background
that everyone's recording the president and editing it.
Amorosa was the African-American liaison first.
Sounds like they're talking about how to spin what's reportedly, so remember they leaked
it.
Oh, also on the NBC tape, you can see what's happening now.
Our best dead reckoning on this is that he'd always said that was edited.
They're discussing, grabbing by this.
They say, did he say the N word?
No, he didn't.
Amorosa goes, that's a lie.
Trump's in.
It's clearly all edited.
Trump's denying it, but the media's spinning it like the aides are saying it was true.
But when we played the audio earlier, we'll play it again in a moment.
That's not what you hear, Roger.
But let's get into Amorosa herself and her character first.
Absolutely, Alex.
As you know, we broke the story here at InfoWars that early in the Trump administration that
Amorosa had persuaded the president to send a delegation from the White House to Haiti
for the inauguration of the new regime, which is really the old corrupt regime with some
new frontmen that has robbed the Haitian people blind, which stole all of the earthquake
relief money after that horrific natural disaster.
And I think she should have been fired right then and there.
The common denominator was a Democratic political consultant named Ron Daniels, who is a friend
of Amorosa's.
Amorosa traveled to Haiti with Haiti.
Let's go back because I want to give me those exact headlines.
I remember I was like, get off this Amorosa thing.
You were coming on, you know, back then, like almost every day, and it was Amorosa, Amorosa,
Amorosa, Amorosa, Amorosa, and you said, listen, she's a Democratic operative.
She's going to set things up and she's tied to corruption to Haiti.
So what were the headlines back then because I want to pull those up for viewers.
The actual headline, I think, is why is Amorosa helping the Clinton rate, the Clinton's rate
of Haiti?
And I think you, I think it's up on the Infowars site.
I believe it's also up at the Stone Cold Truth site at the site.
I think we cross posted it at the time.
I interviewed Azilio Donso right here on, on Infowars about this at least twice.
So this woman is evil.
She is not one of us.
Now I recognize why during the campaign, having a person of color willing to campaign for
the president to someone who knew him personally, someone who could attest that he is not a racist,
he's not, was valuable.
And she was loyal to Trump and Trump was loyal to her during the campaign.
I think she did an extraordinary disservice to the Trump administration and to the country
trunting for these criminals in Haiti.
But now, hell hath no scorn, hell hath no fury, like a woman scorned.
She was soaking up a huge paycheck.
She was doing nothing.
She was abusive to other members of the staff.
She seemed to think because she had a prior personal relationship with the president that
the rules did not apply to her.
Let's just get down to brass tacks.
Trump does it just like black people or black women.
And we need to win this midterm.
So I just, I have to know there's some real ace cards floating right out there.
And I just wonder Roger will ever, that'll ever come out.
Well, I look about Trump and Amorosa.
I don't think Donald Trump ever had a romantic relationship with Amorosa.
I do know that he did once date an African-American supermodel.
Oh wait, so you're going to go ahead and put this out now.
Go ahead.
At a time that he was single, a woman who appeared multiple times on the cover of Bogue,
a stunningly beautiful woman who happened to be African-American.
He was single.
She was single.
So much for the idea that he is a racist.
He doesn't have a racist bone in his body.
And Roger, there's even more to the story, but we're just going to leave it at that.
Because this has not been reported.
And I really think regardless of what the president wants, at a certain point we have
to do what's best for him.
Well, I'm going to be in Dallas, probably I'm going to be in Austin for the next two
days.
And I think perhaps we can lay this whole story out.
Because I know Donald Trump, 40 years.
He is not a racist.
Well, let's just say that you were his wingman and you, I mean, you, you, you know, abso
100% Lutely, he's not a racist.
I know that for a fact, look at some of his friends, Mike Tyson, Don King, look at his
courtship of this absolutely stunning black model who was really on the cover of Bogue,
I believe three or four times, which is a record.
Perhaps Amarosa may have aspired to have a romantic relationship with him when he was
single, but I doubt he was interested.
And now she turns out to be a lying viper.
Let's take, for example, the claim in her book that the Republican pollster Frank Luntz
heard Trump use the n-word.
Not true.
Well, I know Luntz, I've known him since he was 13 years old.
He denies it.
He said he never heard anything whatsoever, and that she never confirmed the same with
him.
So, uh, look, her, her book is a piece of garbage.
This is-
Well, I was about to say though, I'm going to play this tape when we come back, but,
but if you listen to it, the, the women are like, no, he said he didn't say it, but then
they move on.
Well, what about the other stuff?
Well, he's embarrassed about it.
They're talking at the time during the campaign about the famous grabber by the, you know
what tape.
So you can tell it's all edited and then the women are saying, no, he didn't say it.
She's like, no, no, that's a lie.
You can see her trying to set him up back then.
Yeah, absolutely.
This is all about her.
It's all about her being fired in the blow to her ego.
She was trying to acquire power.
She was trying to acquire a turf inside the White House, but essentially she's incompetent
and she was not even effective in her outreach to the black community on behalf of this administration.
My questions and I have each one, Alex, what's going to matter more to African American voters?
The lowest unemployment rate among black Americans in US history or the fact that Amarosa is
but her about being fired?
I think the answer is pretty clear.
Well, even the Democrats at first said illegally recording people in the situation room saying
Kelly threatened her.
That's the standard deal.
Hey, you ought to resign.
This will be a lot easier.
I would, you know, I wouldn't tar your name.
I wouldn't look disgruntled.
You know, we'll try to help you out.
We'll give you a good recommendation.
That's the standard deal when you work in a media or governmental type deal is, hey,
you know, you've been doing some stuff you're not supposed to.
We now know what that was running around grandstanding, violating security, recording people, which
is all confirmed.
He's saying, be nice.
We'll play nice.
And she calls that a threat.
I call that somebody, you know, trying to give you a chance.
I couldn't agree more.
Look, we know that she asked to hold her wedding in the Rose Garden.
No staff member has ever held a wedding in the Rose Garden.
Members of the first family, Trisha Nixon, for example, was married there.
One of President Johnson's daughters was married there.
That's appropriate.
Staff members, not appropriate.
So when that request is rejected by General Kelly, Amarosa just barges into the place
and does what she wants anyway.
There's grounds for firing right there.
So this is all about her.
What's amazing to me is the way the mainstream media, particularly CNN, has whipped this
into a story.
This is tabloid crap.
We've got the Chinese communists on the verge of taking over this country by the hijacking
order.
It's even worse.
The sales of all our technology and all they want to talk about is Amarosa.
Tired of it.
We'll be right back.
We're going to air this tape and then talk about the censorship, Roger Stonestone, coldtruth.com,
infowars.com.
And please don't forget, we'll tell you about the Stone Legal Defense Fund.
We come back.
And without you, we're not going to be here.
We are the folks taking action.
We love you.
We appreciate you.
Without you, we will not be here.
We're running a mega sale, free shipping on our bestselling supplements, T-shirts, books,
films, infowars.com, infowarslife.com.
You've driven the app to number one and it's got a five star rating.
But ladies and gentlemen, go to infowars.com.com, forward slash show and click on to subscribe
to the free podcast because they de-listed us everywhere else.
You've got to subscribe there to make sure you get it.
Don't forget to tell friends, families and neighbors about it.
The power of you and word of mouth is incredible.
That's why they did thousands of articles a day lying about me until Sunday.
And then the head of Apple, quarterbacking and had a meeting and said he's getting too
much attention.
No more coverage.
Well, we're covering in here and thanks to drudgereport.com, it's getting out as well.
But infowarsstore.com, amazing products, great prices and your funding, the second American
Revolution as it goes global.
Buy your war bonds today at infowarsstore.com.
Without you, they win.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog.
Survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your
body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Over the power of survival shield X2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com.
and now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's
no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news,
intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The world is a dangerous place, not because of evil, but because of those who look on
and do nothing.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
We now take you live to the central Texas command center, it's Alex Jones.
Over 20 years ago, Alex Jones created the media platform called infowars and in the
decade since, it's grown into a truly remarkable institution with over 200 radio affiliates,
tens of millions of unique website visitors monthly, and a 24 seven live news TV channel
broadcasting from state-of-the-art studios in Austin, Texas, infowars has become the
most trusted independent news source in the country dedicated to delivering breaking news,
live coverage of special events and exclusive reports you won't find anywhere.
But then the record skips, you hear the car crash sound and all of it's gone, five billion
views, all of it destroyed because they don't want people to go back and see how right we've
been, they're desperate, but I am unfortunately having to prepare legal action to defend the
First Amendment and I've got letters going on to Google right now because they worked
with a cartel to ban us, they made a big mistake, they're in antitrust violation right now,
caught dead to rights.
Going back to Roger Stone, Roger let's play some of this CBS piece, again I can go over
this for an hour, I can teach a college course on this, but just like Megan Kelly edited
tape of me talking about Hillary having people killed in Iraq, then they edited it to say
kids in a pizza place on Fox News before she left.
You can hear the women saying no, he didn't say the n-word and this is the famous debate
when they were saying there was a rumored n-word on the grabber by the you know what
tape.
So they're then wargaming that and Amarosa day one is like jumping in on the phone trying
to say it's a lie when she's acting like she's Trump's friend before she even gets hired
once he gets elected, this whole thing like you said she's been brought in by one of these
top Democrats, I mean my God, I wish Trump would have listened to you because I know
before he even hired her at the White House you told him don't do it.
That is correct, I think she's been a-quizzling from the beginning, it's all about her, the
aggrandizement of her, the accumulation of power by her, she's never shared the president's
agenda, what she did in Haiti is disgraceful during the campaign, the president pledged
to be a friend to the Haitian people, the Bushes and the Clintons ripped off millions
of dollars of the Haitian earthquake money as we now know, Amarosa essentially helped
perpetuate that.
So she did no favors for this country or this administration and frankly I was delighted
to see General Kelly tan her, it was about time.
Let's go ahead and roll the heavily edited tape and even the edited tape you can hear
them stretching, here it is.
She describes an October 2016 phone conversation with Lynn Patton then assistant to Eric Trump,
Fox person Katrina Pearson and campaign communications director Jason Miller in which they discuss
how to deal with the potential fallout from its release.
I'm trying to find out at least the context he was using to help us maybe try to figure
out the latest in it.
Patton then described a conversation she had with then candidate Trump about making the
slur.
I said well can you think of any time that this might have happened and he said no.
Well that's not true.
So how do you think I should handle it?
And I told him exactly what you just said Amarosa which is well if you kind of fun what
scenario you're talking about and he said well why don't you just go ahead and put
it to bed.
I don't know what to handle it.
He said it.
He's American.
Pearson denied the call ever took place during an interview on Fox News Monday night.
Katrina Kirsten said he said it, did that happen?
No and that did not happen.
It sounds like she's writing a script for a movie.
The White House and Trump campaign have not provided a response to this new development
and neither have Pearson or Patton who-
Stay right there.
We're going to come back to you five more minutes with Roger Stone and Joel Scalzen joins
us on the big geopolitical front and look at the big surprise coming up the midterms
B but you hear that hammered edited tape.
You hear the woman say no he didn't say it.
Somebody jumps in and says he does and it's October 2016 they admit they're discussing
what could be on the NBC grabbing by the you know what tape and it was all rumored at the
time that was in there so they're wargaming all angles and arguing about this hysterical
clucking around and that becomes the proof of this unbelievable.
We'll put bookends on this straight ahead with Roger Stone then Joel Scalzen stay with
us.
In Full Wars Life and info wars life.com is extremely excited to announce our latest
release.
Winner's Son a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winner's Son is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years but the result as verified by independent
laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at info wars life.com about Winner's Son vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function something the globalists are targeting.
Visit info wars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the info war.
I'm Alex Jones your host and let me tell you people ask me how are you doing being demonized
in thousands of articles every new channel being lined about well this is a war to take
back the country and this is what I expected would happen to the people at the turning
point but I didn't know I'd be right at the tip of the spear here so we're gonna be war
gaming all this geopolitical and more with Joel Scousen World Affairs brief come up here
in about five minutes but I wanted to finish up with Roger Stone former head of the campaign
you're gonna be coming to Austin tomorrow and we're gonna spend a few days and I know
you have not wanted to ever break any confidence with the president you've known for 40 plus
years and who you were even the New York Times admitted 20 years ago or his wingman for decades
when he was not married he you guys would go out and date ladies together and you and
I didn't just get a lot of this from you I read about it the New York Times back when
we were more accurate years ago because I was trying to figure out who Trump really was
about four or five years ago and all the started or four years ago and how you know he is his
lawyer was the head of the House un-American Senate un-American committee for you know
obviously the fellow that led the fight against that famously and who's now been proven a completely
correct and of course that's Joseph McCarthy and all the rest of it really trying to find
out who Trump really is not who they say he is and so I know you've got some bombshells
that I think we're gonna go ahead and have to figure out what we're gonna release or
what we're gonna say what we're gonna do that are really devastate a lot of the things
they're pushing and saying but just in closing with Amarosa and where all this is going so
you agree this is their attempt but double the number of black Americans and Hispanics
saying they're gonna vote for Republicans in the midterm turning around really liking
Trump getting it's all a big lie this is the counter this is their play amongst others
to try to make sure that the Republicans lose this critical midterm election there's no
question look at the declarations by Kanye West have had a devastating effect on them
so this is in the pop culture this is an attempt to undo that record number of African Americans
now moving towards the Trump position moving towards the Republican Party which of course
is logical because we are the party of emancipation we are the party of civil rights we are the
party of Lincoln and therefore they're hysterical about it because a small shift in that vote
can make the difference let's look at the 2016 elections a shift of 10,000 votes in the
city of Detroit gives Donald Trump Michigan a shift of 10,000 votes in the city of Milwaukee
gives Trump Wisconsin a shift of 10,000 votes in the city of Philadelphia gives Trump Pennsylvania
places where Mitt Romney and George and John McCain fell short so they are petrified that
Trump is changing the political zeitgeist he's changing and forging a new coalition hopefully
a permanent coalition so what do we do we tried out Amarosa and her pack of lies and
her pack of fabrications where she consistently contradicts everything she said previously
this is so transparent Alex it's almost nauseating I don't think the American people will buy
it I'll tell you why jobs in our inner cities jobs in our black community opportunities
are far more important than anything Amarosa has to say and especially black Americans
know they were totally abandoned by Obama their unemployment almost doubled under Obama
it was just hellish he just thought he had him so he threw him to the curb Trump has
really been focusing on this really trying to get factories in and folks know that so
it's very exciting let me just add this point they're really trying to take us down we've
had news wars.com prisonplanet.com and Europe wars all targeted because they're not on the
biggest servers they're on huge ones info wars is on really you know fancy high tech
systems with systems in front of it you name it but it's been going down since this weekend
intermittently info wars.com is now down and under attack and we've had people inside companies
you tell us oh your software you can't use it now and then we contact the head of the
companies I'm not gonna say names it's it's not cloudflare that's doing this and they
say no that's a mutiny inside our operation they say well basically someone did that who's
unauthorized show and I want to be clear that's not cloudflare it's a software company one
of the top ones everybody knows the name of that had that happened over the weekend and
they didn't ask me not to say their name I'm just I'm just trying to trying to you know
have some privacy here but they are they're not trying to take us off our payment systems
they've actually taken one down and once chopping cart down they are taking our comment section
away we had to put a new one in that isn't as popular yet a discuss us got rid of us
mail chimps we couldn't send emails to you now we're on a new system they're attacking
that it is total they've got three New York Times reporters down here basically full time
following me around on others Washington Post writers Buzzfeed people I mean it is I'm following
around everywhere this is a total war the chai comms are involved in all of it it is insane
so we'll keep watching info wars.com but if it's down and if that persists it was down
about an hour this weekend I didn't make a big deal about it Gateway Pundit did we appreciate
that but it is going on this is malicious you have news wars.com prisonplanet.com but
this is our total de-platforming this is China involved the Washington Times is reporting
with one of the national security consultants to Fox News contributors saying that they concur
that the Chinese are involved with Tim Cook who's officially moved there and that they're
making their move right now in Hollywood everywhere so we'll be discussing that with Joel Scousen
of worldaffairsbrief.com that are in chief there in just a moment you're going to be
here in studio people need to support you get your book at infowarstore.com that's still
up as we speak and get your new bookstones rules also your legal defense fund tell folks
about that absolutely Alex as I think anybody who's watching TV CNN or Fox knows Robert
Mueller has me in his sights not that I've committed any crime my crime is supporting
Donald Trump for president and being effective about it but my legal bills are through the
sky they threaten to destroy me so folks can go to stonedefencefund.com like info wars
and my family members there we are under siege and we need help as never before so if you
go to stonedefencefund.com anything you can send would be a godsend all right thank all
the listeners and viewers and again if you're a TV viewer look at this thank you Roger you'll
be in studio tomorrow yes indeed we're doing pardon me sir all right I think your body
was going up and down thank you we'll talk to you soon uh senate democrats are circulating
plans for government takeover of the internet this is just from last week reason magazine
then look boom info wars is down this is concerted turns out senator warner is running at all
senator mark warner proposes the end of free speech to bring an EU style social score with
the Chinese and find you if the bureaucrats say you're fake news we're taking off Vimeo
video platform they said because we claimed that muslim training camps have been busted
that were reportedly and allegedly in the indictments saying that they were planning
to carry out school shootings they found a dead body of a child who'd been reported missing
from another state reportedly killed in a ritual and they let him go on twenty thousand
dollars bond that's two thousand dollars and the judge says she's going to waive that even
because they said it's racist because they're black and that they were Christians in a compound
like that they would never have had their children taken they got emergency calls people starving
to death and on the compound has tunnels it looks like hell on earth they were out there
reportedly people that called it in said this was going on the point is if they found a dead
body in my nice five bedroom house of a dead kid i guarantee you that i'd still be in jail
a week later ladies and gentlemen if alex jones was found with a dead kid that was found missing
months ago from another state who reportedly died in a ritual do you think i'd be out of
jail right now no fire bombings all over sweden fire bombings in france they're not even hardly
reporting it another westminster truck attack four injured all of this going on building
building building building to the chaos to remove trump building building building with
the antifa attacking people and running around said they're going to kill trough outside
the white house in nbc and cnn covering it up we'll talk all about it with jones scowles
and the world affairs brief dot com on the other side and remember no matter what they
do to info wars they're still daily caller and they're still drudge report and they're
still world affairs brief dot com and they're still you know all the other great people
and organizations out there that let the truth get out like george norrie and others but
i'm telling you we have been chosen for destruction and then you are next because they've tracked
back to us the catalyst with all these guests and everybody that's info wars you the audience
i'm just one part of it literally sometimes the problem in it but that's the way god works
and we are changing the world and populism and nationalism is exploding but the chai
coms are breathing down my neck they're breathing down my neck and info wars is down as we speak
news wars dot com is still up
most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the u.s. what
if i told you for just fifty four ninety five a month you could fight against heart disease
naturally at heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back
to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it check out all of the success stories
at hbxtrack dot com or to order call eight six six two nine five fifty three oh five
that's eight six six two nine five fifty three oh five hbxtrack dot com don't risk it when
you can take charge of it
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices with liberty
health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients
who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor
helping neighbor learn more now by going to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on
call dot org
it's a no-brainer a big brookie water filter is the one you need period you need a water
filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all in only two cents per gallon get the
original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big brookie and now gcm listeners
receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click one eight seven
seven nine nine brookie or big brookie water filters dot com that's one eight seven seven
nine nine b e r k e y
hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons with the
highest quality most versatile unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling
bow dot com sling bow products are compact and models start from just seventeen ninety
eight they're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and
your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow a new frontier in archery and
truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at sling bow dot
com
years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal
yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team
knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus
is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support
the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product
to help your body fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can
cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients including
grapefruit seed extract pal darko bark and grape seed extract our formulas fueled by
ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up
a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com that's
info wars life dot com
we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg first demonize info wars lie about
us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on youtube
and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and islamophobia and then voila two
weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all
in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot com four slash show subscribe
to the free podcast just click on the link whatever you're subscribing to your podcast
and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com four slash newsletter
and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and
articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com four
slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they can then reach out
to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info this is what they
don't want you to see you're listening to the alex jones show
live from austin texas broadcasting it's alex jones well joel scousen and his family and
patriots of the fbi like his uncle clian scousen were the first to expose how big rich robber
barons were funding communism helping put communist china in place all of it was john
birch who got tortured to death at the end of world war two and when malice taking power
in the late 40s because he knew that our government was aiding it and so it's it's it's folks
like joel scousen bestselling author former marine corps naval aviator in the vietnam
era patriot editor in chief of world affairs brief dot com can really speak to this but
the washington times has a big article and by the way i've been told leave the islamist
alone leave china alone you're gonna be taking off these platforms and tim cooks officially
moved to china google has been caught building secret censorship systems that they're already
testing here it's here and here's the article alex jones is right china is the threat and
it may be too late that's l todd wood and here's a national security advisor and expert
contributor to fox news and a bunch of other grips and he breaks it all down there as well
must read china literally owns most of hollywood now two years ago three years ago michael sabbage
they printed a couple like 50 000 of his book he said and then they wouldn't put it in stores
because the chinese said no so this is the big enchilada and i'm not saying china totally
runs the u.s. but the globalist have been merging with it and still plan to fight with
it i agree with what scousen says but it seems to me though that that that the chinese are
going into overdrive right now i i'm gonna get his expert take on this and what he thinks
about info wars dot com being down right now and the total deplatforming we're facing what
does that signify because they're already going after everybody else right now ahead
of the midterms i think they wouldn't be doing something this illegal we've talked to top
lawyers and draconian if they weren't planning to go for broke joel scousen thanks for joining
us well the issue is conspiracy alex you mentioned there are other people of info wars
goes down there's breitbart there's drudgen but they don't cover conspiracy in the degree
and with argumentation and evidence that you do now i do i've got a much smaller audience
than i did but you are the kingpin and of the conspiracy movement like it or not and
that's why you're the target alex and it's a tear it's a chance one thing you know which
i don't think they will be this is that to be you know very disconcerting it's got to
be a problem you know financially as they continue to harass you with these lawsuits
but can tell you that people on the outside say hey something wrong with this picture
uh... there is a bendetta against this guy and i better find out what's going on here
and so i think people are showing interest in finding out a little bit about you and
they find out you know that you have made corrections to the things which they always
promote in a false way that you've said about sandy hook or other things or the pizza gate
thing they never talk about your corrections they never talk about your improved position
on these things so this is a very strange piece of bias it's not going to end this is
a powerful system one of my major complaints is the conservative movement keeps saying
enough a lot of this is due to fox news who talks about the deep state but in their opinion
the deep state is simply obama administration democrat holdovers in the bureaucracies which
are out to get trump that's not the deep state at all the deep state is a long centuries
old conspiracy of power which is satanic base revelatory base that's why it keeps going
generation after generation it isn't one person that runs it when brzezinski dies there's
kissinger and when kissinger dies there's going to be somebody else it's a spirit it's empowered
by a spirit of wanting to hurt people and as you've said this for years you're absolutely
right look at how the coat brothers are now against trump and again trump's not perfect
but why do they hate him so much well it's hard to say you know I I was very cautiously
optimistic when trump was was elected because of his powerful campaign positions I thought
boy if even half of those come through it's going to be a real win for us and unfortunately
less than 10 percent have come true and the major compromises he made especially in foreign
policy has been a real disaster the attacks on Syria the coming attack on Iran which is
fully behind the complete compromising of the north korean vow to take care of this
militarily or diplomatically that's just a major compromise so I'm really worried about
donald trump his ability to follow through on things certainly that's the case but then
why is he so in battle why are they so frothing and and and demonically energized to take
him out because it has slowed down their agenda you know donald trump they convince him of
one thing and the next day he turns around and they have to reconvince him in other words
they never make they never get ahead with donald trump it's the same thing they can stop him
from pursuing his agenda in favor of liberty and they do so but he keeps coming back around
and tries again and they have to stop him again I mean this guy is not an insider he
is a very much a flawed person he's got good instincts but his weaknesses can and his lack
of a background his lack of understanding of the facts on how the deep state operates
who's in the deep state what are the deep state operations like the supporting and the
creation of isis and al-qaeda he knows nothing about those so when they give him these false
excuses explaining away his instincts he doesn't have the wherewithal to counter those very
sophisticated arguments let me ask you this I mean to distract off into trump with the
and I know in force is important but they're using the crackdown on me as a precedent they're
cracking down on so many people now ahead of the midterms what is congress going to
do about this when you have top democrats murphy and others saying we're going to end
the first amendment in official announcements I mean this is this is just crazy these statements
senate democrats circulating plans for government take over the internet senator mark warner
proposes into free speech I mean they're really doing this well they are and that's why it's
important to really address the arguments that they're using I do so in this week's world
affairs brief which people can get a free copy of by simply emailing me at editor at
world affairs brief dot com my top story this week is about the vendetta against alex jones
and why it's unjust first of all they're basing this on hate speech hate speech can never
be a legal basis for anything because it's undefinable now you can get to a definable
level when you talk about incitement to violence and we do that in our courts of law you can't
sit there and rally people to kill someone and get away with like the democrats do everywhere
well that's right and they even talk about killing trump but the point is the normal person
can't get away with that incitement of violence but you can't take hate hate speech is nothing
more than strong criticism of another person now I know you have been critical of muslims
I have been critical muslims you've been critical of I have been about blacks in the worth that
work ethic or the unwed mother problem within that category we're doing that trying to help
people not because we hate them well that's right and we're also doing it to be able
to stop or counter the left or the mainstream media attempt to cover up the problems within
the community I mean you played a I heard in fox news talking about the problem with
black unemployment as if this is something that's systemic to the capitalist system
but when you look at the problems within the black homes within the nation and the lack
of work ethic and things and the unwed mother problem and the gang and the other things
that hits the latinos well that's the basis which is a product of the great society which
was a plan we'll be back with Joel scowls and about what could the big events be ahead
of the midterms what does he expect into the future info wars by the way is down if you
like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to love the dylan living water
bottle it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you
money made with surgical grade stainless steel the dylan bottle increases the ph up to nine
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you wanted alkaline water is healthier
tastes better and can even boost energy the dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable
to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co that's
dyln.co most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the u.s.
what if I told you for just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally
at heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart don't just take my word for it check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack.com
or to order call 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 hbxtrack.com don't risk it when you can take
charge of it you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic
formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract
l-tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to
keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your
body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars
life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on
over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com do
you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the
videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globalist
it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood
against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world
and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you
are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important
than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via
email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles
breaking news intel you name it and so now I ask you more than ever to share the info
wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're
listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars
dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning we are kept
afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're
not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider a contribution
twenty five fifty a hundred two fifty or even five hundred dollars would be a godsend to
our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights hey how would you like to take info
wars with you wherever you go well now you can do just that with the new official info
wars and here's the best part it is absolutely free at the apple store and google play you
can join the info war today check it out right now it is for us dot com forward slash app
app it's the info wars official app take it on the globalist at point blank range and
with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it we are unstoppable you're
listening to the alex jones show defending the republic from enemies born and domestic
it's alex jones okay you can study military history you can study tactics they have different
names for it but take the invasion of panama right after george herbert walker bush got
into office and i'm not saying panaman dictator was a good guy but he wasn't paying his drug
money into the cia anymore that's all come out in court now for six months before they
invaded they dropped flashbangs they shot blank soft helicopters did landings until when
they finally hit people just thought oh it's just more of the attack that's a tactic where
you build up the attack until finally the real attack comes and you don't stand up against
it there's different names for that they're trying to take our credit card processors
they just took one they just took down one of our shopping carts they took us off credio
after taking us off ad roll that advertises with google where we just sold water filters
and air filters and supplements outside to fund this place that was four million dollars
gross like two and a half million dollars money takes a lot of money to run this that
was like all our extra money i had to really work hard to get that back to even keep going
they just blew away credio it was at three million dollars already this year it was
doing better than the last thing gone blown away they sought us out they said our general
counsel says we can't work with you for hate as jose calzen just said that's a soviet globalist
leftist think tank university term where they just say oh it's hate we just say that's hate
they banned us all vimeo for saying that a islamic training camp got busted that reportedly
allegedly was planning mass shootings at schools that was mainstream news they said you're
gone for that they arrest you in europe if you talk about islamic terror so it's here
folks and it's all being segwayed over and now u.s senators democrats are saying we're
gonna follow e you rules and chinese systems and the chinese dictators when the wall street
journal praising america going after fake news so we're here so this is the big attack
in full wars we've confirmed has been artificially hit it is down right now even though we had
systems in front of it that couldn't even do it it has to be internal this is what they
said four months ago in bloomberg after i was already told this people internally at youtube
put fake strikes on us and took us down they reversed it but they're so sick of rebellions
inside google and apple google this year refused their their their people walked off a us engineering
project refusing to work for the pentagon that's how activists they are google's taken
christmas off their calendars along with apple so you have to understand that there are even
so much chinese operatives as they just hate the country so we'll get jose calzans take
on that but right now info wars dot com has been taken down oh it's a private company
they can take you down no this is just so so they are exponentially i believe beta testing
ahead of a big event civil unrest assassination of trump who knows what the false flag is
a group of false flags attacks on the media attacks on apple google saying we sponsored
it or something and i see that the crystal ball the kind of thing they would do politically
and they don't want us there to counter it when they make that move show they they they
were hitting us thousands of articles a day until we were number one on the app number
one on everything it panicked them they kind of went quiet in the last few days and then
now behind the scenes they're going after stuff it's clearly torches interference so
so joe i got you on about china and you know about the midterms and what you think they
may pull but i'm just kind of on us right now because i never really make a big deal
about it now we're under attack and i've almost gotten kind of calm to it now like oh somebody's
following me again oh the new york times is following me oh i'm being harassed oh you
know they're threatening me again and i i'm kind of getting into this punch drunk situation
and i know you're you know a veteran who dealt with stuff a lot more stressful you know the
one i'm dealing with landing on aircraft carriers and rough seas but isn't there almost a problem
where it's not like you're have courage it's that you've been doing it so long you're not
even worried anymore and you lose that frostiness i mean you do you get what i'm trying to get
out here well yes the good danger alex is that in the tension of the moment in the you're
under attack there's no question about it on all sides the best strategy that you can
react to is to come through with more calmness than you've ever had before so that when people
come to you when a lot of people coming to see what's this alex jones all about you know
they show the wild man video clips on on cnn but when people come to your show if you'll
show increased calmness they'll say okay this is a false you know attack there's nothing
about alex jones that i find objectionable and i realize it's hard during the heat of
the attack to be calm but that's what i recommend in terms of a strategy to do more good than
almost any other thing other than fighting back no i totally agree and the lord works
in a serious way so my clowning sometimes out of context brought part of the audience
and broke through but i think it's time to fully be serious and not joke around anymore
i think that's good advice describe your calmness when the jet aircraft or the private plane
you were flying failed and you survived that miracle crash landing well yeah when my engines
you know didn't respond to the throttle i'll tell you the adrenaline starts going and you
realized all right we got a problem because that back of that carrier deck is coming up
in your face you know i was really shocked alex because it wasn't so much the technique
of what to do with the airplane i could always pull the handle and eject at some point but
my major concern on the aircraft carrier was where do i put this thing there are people
on the deck that are scrambling and i'm gonna you know hit somebody now when my personal
airplane crashed of course i thought that i made the landing i was avoiding the populated
air i was heading for a field that just happened to be a fence post there that caught my landing
gear and made the aircraft tumble and you know it was a severe crash it broke my two
thousand pound test seat belt and i didn't go anywhere you think about that how do you
break your seat belt and not go flying out so i think there was a little bit of miraculous
help there but you know you you train you train so that you are calm relatively calm
in the situation you know your procedures you watch your airspeed you make sure you
don't stall and spin that's how most people die in an airplane crash they keep trying
to extend the glide until they stall and spin and they fall out of the air and kill themselves
if you come in under control still flying unless you're heading for a pack of trees
you're gonna generally survive you may have some injuries but you're gonna survive well
they said that was amazing that you lived through that you said that powerful seat belt
broke but you had a little scratch on your head mike walked off from it yeah i had the
whole airplane cracked open i was sitting on the wing i just stepped off onto the grass
and i was fine it was truly miraculous and and like what did you just zin out at that
moment i mean i mean go back describing it just suddenly there was no power and what
happened well it turned out that the the fuel line had become clogged there was no way that
i could get any power from the airplane and i was only a quarter mile from the runway
and i realized i was not going to be able to glide to the runway and so i had to turn
onto the non-populated area to avoid crashing into buildings this was very near a very populated
area so well Nigel Farage that even the french police and others confirmed they were sabotaging
his cars cutting brake lines unbolting the bolts on it happened at least three times
he didn't want to get into it but i thought people that know him well and they said that
they think there was some sabotage with with with the aircraft that they ended up later
from the injuries killing the pilot took him a few years to die Farage walked off his face
all smashed but do you ever wonder if they somebody put something in your fuel well we
were able to pull the fuel filter apart afterwards and found fiberglass particles in it which
in a in an experimental aircraft when they build a tank out of fiberglass some of that
fiberglass over time is going to slough off and that did apparently there's no way that
that would be an appropriate way to to sabotage because the it's a natural occurring thing
that actually pertain to the airplane so i think it was a fault of whoever built the
airplane i agree so they should go to metal aluminum gas tanks right well not necessarily
i mean there's something to be said for composite construction you just have to flush the things
out really good to make sure that all that excess fiberglass gets out before you start
flying what are you flying now well i'm flying a certified aircraft of mooney turbocharged
mooney aircraft and they're not without their problems too but so you really have to be
careful i do a very thorough check of the airplane but that's my dad's favorite small plane he's
a pilot is the mooney yeah it's a very very good cross country airplane but you know getting
back to the world situation now we'll come back to the world situation we'll do it right
now do five minutes the next hour Joel scowles and world affairs brief dot com go there and
subscribe to it send him an email send you a free copy it's really a powerful information
well we'll look at the midterms china big issues info wars is down i mean this is happening
ladies and gentlemen and it's artificial we've confirmed that they are trying to shut us down
ahead of something big news wars dot com prison planet dot com spread those links don't let
them win the scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains
one of the most potent forms of tumeric available tumeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for
its soothing properties our pure tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for
optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune
system and so much more regular tumeric root from the store only contains one to five percent
of active ingredients but our tumeric root extract contains over ninety five percent
of the active ingredients bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs such as spearmint
sage lemon balm and time to work synergistically for full body support try bodies today at
info wars life dot com or call us at one eight eight two five three three one three nine
feeling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to
help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's
no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with twenty
of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep
your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better
time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't
miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily
digestive pack today we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg first demonize
info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that then have
a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children
and islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens
of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info
wars dot com four slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever
you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info
wars dot com four slash newsletter and give us your email so that we can stay in contact
with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell
folks about info wars dot com four slash show how they can download the free android and
iphone apps how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out
this is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to see you know if i tried
to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life it take
ours michael zx plus it now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics
it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's
been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones
in your body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can
upload it our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine
fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can
also swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without
you we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info wars store dot com and remembering
that it's not just you it's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and
it's so essential to spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second
american revolution you're listening to the alex jones show live from austin texas broadcasting
worldwide it's alex jones okay so info wars dot com has been attacked it's been turned
off it looks like there's d-dots attacks going on but we have stuff that blocks that it's
some type of internal sabotage somewhere not here but within the different systems out
there and that's this new trend of the people in the technology companies are mainly left
us now and they just like reality winner they just do whatever they want joel scalzen editor
in chief at worldoffirstbrief.com is our guest talk about bizarre breaking news they spent
ten plus days in the prosecution against manifold the defense spent less than one day today
this is just insane and we've got all this other stuff happening joel just quantifying
all of this your smart guy where do you think we are currently ahead of the midterms the
big ramp up of calls for violence crazies by the left at a gut level of geopolitical level
what do you expect to happen frankly alex almost nothing before the midterms the democrats
have a real problem if they unleash antifa in a series of riots and really social unrest
as people have been predicting it's going to accrue to republicans favor and you know
there is this radical portion of the democrats the democrats in the middle really are at
a loss because you know hillary clinton is the one they're secretly planning on trying
to run again and if the radical left portion that has ruined that for it could be a real
problem i do think before the next election for donald trump directly there's going to
be a they'll pull the plug a little bit on the stock market so you get a 20 or 30 percent
reduction it'll cause pension companies to go out of business donald trump will get the
blame for that they're going to try to deny him the success of the economy issue in this
next election but in the midterms almost nothing that they can do is going to favor
the democrats it's a good any crisis at all is going to make it is going to be easily
blamed on the democrats i think this campaign frankly against you alex is backfiring on
them i think people can see the unjust they can see it's one sided even people on the
left are coming to your defense on the issue of free speech and so no i agree but here's
the problem instead of just the platforming off all the big places where i can reach
people which is what they wanted now they're going after the payment processors are shutting
the website down and i agree it's it's it's crazy and not within why are they doing it
because they're only they're only moving forward well you know these are control freaks a lot
of people and some of these people only know how to attack in in a frontal way and until
it backfires on them now to be frank they've tried more subtle ways before you know as
they started to censor youtube they started to catch your advertisers on youtube but that
didn't work and so they're having to take strong strong action now you know this whole
issue about we're a private company so we can do anything you know that's a hypocritical
legal position how many times has the left told us after civil rights legislation that
if you are a company open to the public you can no longer discriminate you are not private
anymore you are a public company and yet they're hiding behind the privacy issue or the public
the private company issue and that's why they're not saying we're discriminating against
all that show and we're discriminating against because they're calling it racist they're calling
it hatred and these things are untrue they're unprovable legally and that's why we have
to fight against those I think that the if Trump as a president were on the ball he would
go to his FCC and other people and say all right we need a rule that basically prohibits
people from using you know non-judicial legal terms like hate speech in order to ban things
we've got to protect free speech by making sure they cannot use these I am most disappointed
by what Trump and his Justice Department under Jeff Sessions has not done to protect us has
not done to uncover and and root out the deep state I think they've probably got something
on Jeff Sessions and that's why he's acting as a feckless attorney generally simply is
not going to bat for Donald Trump or Liberty or anything else my horse my horse my kingdom
for a horse we got one tweet out that info wars is down but had a link in it go to info
wars.com no go to news wars.com go to prisonplanet.com you can't go to info wars.com I meant to go
off air and just deal with this actually because it's a big deal but there's this psychology
that we're not a big deal which is fine but you know it's it's it's it's just that the
boldness and the craziness and the things they're doing it is true we're exposing their
agenda and and I know you say there's three major power predatory centers and I agree
there's rips competing but more and more our elite have sold out to China they base things
in China China's double crossing the globalist more and more but the word is what we see
is my criticism of Apple and Google living to China helping them censor is that China's
really exerting through Hollywood and everything it's it's it's powers I see the Pentagon and
others pushing back against that but it looks to me like right now that with everything
China has been given the rare earth minerals the Panama Canal shooting at US ships this
week it just seems like China is the big issue and I certainly know that that's one reason
they're mad at me Joel Scousen is that I keep pointing out Russia Russia I'm not saying
Russia is our buddy or anything but China it is really what in my own life I've experienced
that is in my business but China is the biggest threat to world peace ever and and will continue
to be so as I've said before I think Russia is a predator state and they're intending
to join with China in attacking the Western I think Russia is going down in the next war
and China is going to be the new enemy completely but you've got to remember there's a difference
between assisting and building an enemy and actually getting in bed with them or letting
China control a lot of people have falsely hypothesized that for example Israel and Assad
controls the new world order and I don't think so I think they're part of the new world order
but they're not the controllers the new world order the globalist are bigger than Israel
but the new world order has been continually building and protecting China this is part
of the strategy of building an enemy to facilitate a future war which will allow a sufficient
amount of destruction of our military forces for the US government to talk us into joining
a militarized global government that's where we're headed now that's why I mean for example
if they really wanted to stop China and its influence in the United States it passes simple
law you have to be an American city to own property or invest in a company in the United
States of America you have to be a citizen that would prohibit all of this Chinese influence
but they want the influence not because the Chinese control the globalist they are two
separate powers but they're continuing to build the best enemy that money can buy and
China is a real growing threat militarily I'm doing an article for next week's World
Affairs Briefs on the China finely reaching and international naval status and Russian
and Chinese ships are plying the Atlantic they used to stay clear of the Atlantic they
had only enough ships to handle the Pacific and now they're in the Atlantic Russian submarines
are spending an inordinate amount of time tracking over US internet cables attached
the United States to Europe and Asia and I know they're tracking those because they
plan on in addicting those cables you're going to lose the internet someday during when
this war comes I think they're trying to take us down to set the
precedent take others down and also the EU is finding Google and others for not being
under their hate speech laws and as you said that's all just made up communist garbage
America and the Congress everybody has to stand up to this and Trump's biggest failing
right now I think he's not doing something about this and not taking action.
That's right Alex where is the leadership in Congress in the presidency in the Department
of Justice I mean there's very clear ways that you can attack these problems you can
defend free speech you can make sure that these companies are declared a public companies
and I'm not against private property in this regard I'm just quoting the left who says
once you're in the public domain and you're open to the public you cannot discriminate
and I think we need an anti-discrimination law in terms of political free speech that
you cannot discriminate and unless it reaches the level of incitement to violence and that
can be very specifically defined in law.
A quick law on that would stop Google it would stop any of these companies from banning
you immediately over this and you could take them to court based upon the law but there
is no one in our movement there's no one in Congress no one in the presidency who is
even hypothesizing about it we're simply reacting to the left's use of their tyrannical powers
with the media and the courts to do this and the courts would be in a tough situation if
we had such a law that protected directly free speech against these terms like hate speech.
So most of the public's in a trance they've literally been mesmerized by television and
the culture it's gotten really sick we're going to do five more minutes with Joe Scalzen
please remember just in the thirty seconds I have that if you don't financially support
us and if you don't buy the products infowarstore.com they will win yes we'll defeat the frivolous
lawsuits we'll defeat the hack attacks we'll defeat all that takedowns but they're trying
to take our payments processing they're trying to kill everything right now so please rally
behind us we need a lot of funds around this operation and continue our operations infowarstore.com
infowarslife.com we've got water filtration air filtration everybody needs we've got non
humo early mcs we've got great patriot apparel to spread the word to meet like minded people
we've got great supplements they're all there if you just shop with us and fund us we will
continue on because we're sponsored by you if you don't we're in big trouble but they're
betting that you don't care and you're an idiot I know you're not please support us
we've got products you need infowarstore.com or triple eight two five three three one three
nine and the mailing address is on the website too that may be all we have soon infowarslife
is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source prebiotic
fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more
and it synergistically works with our fifty billion live active culture for a life as
well as myco zx that targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the gut so this
is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other
products you get them separately or together and make really really big savings and get
high quality products at the same time and I'm doing this to introduce these products
to you bodies sold out in a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come
up with it sold out for another month and a half we sold it at fifty percent off till
it's sold out and I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber get yours today
infowarslife.com Patrick in the great nation of Australia you're on the air worldwide thanks
for holding I've been following you since I was fourteen and I'm thirty two now I remember
back when info wars and prison planet it was just blue text on a white screen and I had
to load down the page on my dial-up internet and I thought it was pretty cool and read
all the books and seen all the DVDs and followed all your guests and I've been using your
products since the first iteration of survival shield and since then I'm on the X2 the super
male vitality the caveman the real red pill myco zx body it's all amazing thank you brother
yeah and I wanted to say that by following you so much it's like you're just detoxing
the mind you detoxing the body you detoxing the spirit and it just the more you know God
the more you fear God but the more you chase God and I wanted to say that it's an honor
to stand side by side with you the crew and the listeners out there seventeen seventy
six worldwide
you're listening to the alex jones show
you know Joel Scousen says I should be calm and I'm not even mad they're trying to shut
us down I expected all this it's that I get frustrated that I can't fight them harder
and I'm like a race car engine kind of blowing up so I appreciate the great crew the listeners
and all the support and you guys are great I'm here talking to some of the crew all right
we're back live here Joel Scousen and the five minutes we have left just other points
you want to add I'm just trying to probe because I know info wars is important and we have
a lot of great guests and a lot of great info we reach five plus billion people on YouTube
at the time they shut us down everywhere else and we're on a lot of radio stations and TV
stations but like you said the vendetta the foaming at the mouth the obsession when I
was in court last week when they were trying to take my kids away from me again using lies
in the media they marched in journalism classes New York Times reporters others and they all
looked at me like I was worse than Charlie Manson but it was beyond a look of hate it
was like a look of lust I couldn't he was like and I had John Ronson here last year
who I'd done for like 20 years and I've turned around he was looking at me going and it's
like it's this Trump derangement syndrome like where the darker demons released by the
media saying it's okay to hate because because these people have gone into like this totally
crazed mode and I don't understand where the hate comes from well oftentimes like suicide
hate comes from people getting infected with letting Satan into their brain and you know
a lot of people don't understand that it comes in your own grammar it sounds like you talking
to yourself but those deep hateful angry voices really are the dark side of the spiritual
spectrum trying to influence people and they don't realize that they're being influenced
they think that they're legitimately angry and of course they lead themselves over time
up to receiving those type of feeling comfortable with them but Satan is a very real part of
our society here and I think it's important that people realize that that this is not
just you know normal behavior we've got three minutes left other key points go scousin about
things happening in the country in the world but I agree with you whenever I may have anxiety
or I'm angry at somebody but just think about Christ my children being good and just think
about being peaceful which I am when I'm not on air that other than I just have great peace
and can go back to sleep you know like late at night so the things that I'm really concerned
about is one not the midterm election so much I don't think the Democrats are going to take
the majorities in the house they may well take the Senate that's a fairly easy one to
do with the small margin that we have there but I don't think they're going to take the
house so it's going to be a split you know Congress usually really won't change the dynamics
anymore of Trump's difficulty in passing anything he can't pass anything past the liberal Republicans
which block his every move anyway and vote for the Democrats so we really don't have
a majority of Republicans that are backing the president in Congress I don't think that's
going to change significantly what's really going to change those we're going to see
this attack on Iran happen we're going to see North Korea get away with continuing to develop
nuclear weapons because Donald Trump has completely defaulted on his pledge not to let this happen
and I'm very very disturbed about Donald Trump for doing this I'd like to be in the White
House to hear what they're telling him to keep him from going back to the military option
it may be that he has been succumbed to the promise of a Nobel Peace Prize which they're
never going to give him but you know they certainly laid that out there to get him
onto the peace bandwagon completely but why he doesn't get upset and say all right you
played me for a fool long enough I mean look at Pompeo this week going to North Korea and
say just give us 60% of your nuclear weapons well you don't even know what 100% is so how
can you talk about 60 70% you haven't even got an inventory for North Korea about what
kind of nuclear weapons and you couldn't believe it even if they gave it to you have to have
international inspectors on the ground as I've said in the world affairs brief many
times Donald Trump needs to say this in the next round of negotiations you have two weeks
to let international inspectors which will include U.S. officers hold on I know you gotta
go but we're back in 60 seconds spend a couple minutes on Joel Scowze and what you think
Trump needs to say to Kim Jong-un and how you think Trump got lured into this.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars
life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax
fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system info wars
life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically
studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the
entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the info war info wars dot com is been down now for an hour and it's definitely
DDoS attacks but I didn't take it down that's been going on for a week and a half since
Tim Cook announced according to the New York Times that they were taking us off and then
they talked to Zuckerberg as the Sunday night meetings with all the other big tech heads
they admit the collusion and then 20 plus groups do it and then we got a top fortune
20 company I'm not gonna name the does software and infrastructure says you're kicked off
our platform and then we send emails to top going my god that's torches interference we
have a contract they're like we've been using it for years they go actually that's incorrect
someone else was mistaken you're still with us so we're dealing with just insane levels
of just mutinous crazed behavior and Joe Scalzen was getting into that I want him to finish
up with North Korea and what he thinks Trump should do in an encapsulated piece about how
he thinks he's been shut up and I agree as much we want peace and things this is starting
to go sideways and the left's gonna love that obviously China's weighed in and put their
pressure on I want to finish up with China as well but but Joe just briefly on this info
wars.com being being banned and this sabotage and the craziness I agree it's backfiring
on him but as you said earlier they're not stopping it's just power madness that they
think they're in control but why would Tim Cook brag through his surrogate you know official
Apple news that he made the decision to take me down and then I went and looked it up he
was on a year and a half ago Matt Hillary lost saying oh don't worry we'll deal with
fake news he came up with the idea everybody put these notices up over news first that
it wasn't real run by Snopes and the Southern primary law center and now he's appearing
to be a prime mover I find it very interesting when he's moved Apple to China it's become
tax exempt he put the iCloud codes with the government and said oh in China when you move
here the government's part of your company that I mean they're hiding that in plain view
I think it's I mean I think it's outrageous to have a guy that runs some of the worst
factories in the world with suicide nets and everything moralizing how I need to be banned
and then everyone else just like Domino's goes yes sir Mr. Cook and falls into line it
shows the monopoly power of Google Apple and of course Facebook working in unison it's
it's classic trust behavior classic monopoly isn't it well the thing you have to ask yourself
is how do these people get from normal liberal techie type people to globalists there was
a process that happened over the past decade and I can tell you if you knew what went on
in the belly you'd find there were some very private phone calls remember every one of
these tech companies had some government seed money from CIA and other dark places to help
them out at the beginning and at some point etc. I think they've got threatened they basically
said now look you know we can take you down just like they're doing to you now Alex we
can take you down anytime we want so if you want to progress whether it's Amazon whether
it's Google whether it's Facebook or Twitter etc. you've got to you know come on to the
control system to the system which is you know going towards this new glorious new world
order they got converted at some point to globalism it isn't that Tim Cook is pro-Chinese
and he's a globalist Eric no I agree well I mean we're marrying into this global thing
it doesn't mean we're Chinese run it means we're merging and their values of oppression
are now coming here so let me ask you this last question we'll get into North Korea.
Why would Jack Dorsey you know I know people with that dinner with him multiple folks they're
like no no Dorsey's scared he doesn't like it he's a liberal but he thinks once this
starts it will shut everything down but he's been banning some conservatives but then when
they all did this Jack Dorsey came out and said no we're not then CNN said well look
at these tweets we think are wrong which really we're out of context they just Twitter just
told us please delete these we did it just to see what would happen but but then I know
for a fact I'm going to leave it this Twitter then opened up some channels with messages
to me I don't know if I'm being suckered or what but why do you think Jack Dorsey's
doing that I don't know you know it appeared when he put your tweets under review the
very next day after he made that strong stand in support that I'm not going to ban it indicate
that he was under tremendous pressure and he said all right we're going to put them
through a review process and that's why you got the messages of those to delete he had
to give them something but apparently he isn't a globalist I mean if he were globalist he'd
be you know saying yes to them so they haven't got him converted yet in my opinion but I almost
don't even want to tell the truth about that though we always tell the truth it's like
we have this almost like a problem being honest about everything we say these we probably
shouldn't say it's not lying to not say something you know but I just still have to almost
board everything out unless it's in total confidence but but but yeah that's basically
what I've heard and I almost don't want to say that Jack Dorsey might be a good guy
because now they'll pile on him even more Joe yeah they will you know this isn't over
I mean look what happened to the Verizon chief when he bucked government spying wasn't going
to do it they literally took this guy down so his name his days are numbered these guys
are very very powerful anyway you know this is one of the things I've covered in this week's
World Affairs brief that people really need to get read is this whole thing about taking
down the deep state in the swamp they are so much more powerful than we think than Donald
Trump thinks anybody thinks they're going to take down the deep state which runs every
single federal law enforcement at least the dark side of those law enforcement agencies
the judicial department the 75 percent of Congress they are just kidding themselves
that they're believing this guy called Q who I'm convinced is on this deep state he's
a guy that says trust Miller trust trust this trust the attorney general what a joke Q's
been absolutely wrong no that's absolutely right but it's amazing the following he's
got I mean they got t-shirt factories pumping out that means there's big money they got
a Hollywood producer to put out a video anonymously on Q and how wonderful this was that he's
going to take down the deep swan look why don't they put their name to it what's illegal
what's dangerous about this video nothing you don't put your name to it because this
is deep state and I agree we're almost out of time finish up with North Korea just just
recap because we all want to deal to happen but then Trump brought him to the verge but
then I saw North Korea run up there meet with China I thought oh boy that's right they got
there marching as Donald Trump could be played and they did play him I mean Donald Trump got
on an ego trip after that Singapore meeting and said he's promised me everything in the
world and the nuclear threat is over and now it clearly isn't he's still building Donald
Trump needs to do this you got two weeks Kim to let international and US inspector
and take possession of all your nuclear facilities and weapons or we go back to the military
option and that doesn't mean an immediate attack it just means we're going to take care
of this militarily it doesn't mean we're going to attack him he's tighten the nose again
start the drills again and move the forces into place yeah but you really do need to
take out his military so he's no longer a threat to North Korea and that would take
out the trigger event for World War three North Korea has been preserved for decades
as the trigger event and by allowing Kim to get away with postponing any disarmament indefinitely
which is basically what is doing Trump is allowing Trump is allowing that trigger event
to be going into the next decade when the Russian Center will be ready no I agree that's
why it's critical to fix this but if you look at Kim he looked totally freaked out out of
his mind the meetings the word is it some of those generals really run things but he's
got some control I mean isn't it that those generals are really chai-kong officers anyways
absolutely they're working for China and Kim really does not run the country they want
the appearance of a crazy man so that when the war starts Russian China can have plausible
deniabilities that crazy man who started the war wasn't us but they are going to be ready
to back it up so Kim probably does want peace when Trump hears that from Dennis Rodman the
problem is he's not running the show that's exactly right he doesn't know what the long
term game plan notice Kim writes nice letters is a good cop bad cop but the generals say
another thing yeah and so this is I'm just afraid this is not gonna go well Donald Trump
has completely given up the military option I don't think he will go back to it and so
I think Kim is building nuclear weapons as we speak and developing more rocket technology
as is indicated by the US government satellite photos about exactly but Trump went with the
angle that he thought no one really tried to do they taunt and try a peace deal he did
offer him everything and if they reject it that's their problem now at least we've taken
the high road though but so now we have to I agree come in with strength now that they're
starting to back off yeah and Tom shows no indication of going back to strength all right
that's always great information Joel Scowles and World Affairs Brief.com editor over there
great work everybody can go there and subscribe or I know they send you an email you'll send
them a free copy right yeah editor at World Affairs Brief.com they'll get a free copy
of the current issue and folks this is powerful info thank you Joel for the time you're welcome
I got a bunch of news I haven't gotten to and quite frankly I don't want us to be in the
news I'm tired of trying to keep stuff up here and running they've shut down info wars.com
and I'm going to go during the break and try to find out what's going on I've been ranting
a little bit on air Cruz doing a great job and I just this is America they want to shut
down everything and I'm sick and tired of it ladies and gentlemen I'm sick and tired
of it it's a no brainer a big Berkey water filter is the one you need period you need
a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals BPA and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only 2 cents per gallon
get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration Big Berkey and now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or
bigberkeywaterfilters.com that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to love the Dylan
Living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and
saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel the Dylan bottle increases
the pH up to 9 to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it alkaline
water is healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the Dylan bottle makes it easy
and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your Dylan bottle today at
dyln.co that's dyln.co.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the US what if
I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart
and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't
just take my word for it check out all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com or to
order call 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 HBXTrack.com don't risk it when you can take
charge of it hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons
with the highest quality most versatile unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at
slingbow.com slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798 they're perfect
for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones the excitement
and tradition of slingbow a new frontier and archery and truly modern twist on this primitive
survival tool feel the thrill only at slingbow.com do you realize that when you spread the links
from info wars.com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has
defeated Hillary and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood
against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us
praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying
censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars.com forward slash
newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with
critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I ask you more than
ever to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos to tell people about the
local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free
newsletter at info wars.com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are
winning we are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go
to the site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please
consider a contribution twenty five fifty one hundred two fifty or even five hundred
dollars would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and
to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment
rights.
Hey how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go well now you can do just
that with the new official info wars and here's the best part it is absolutely free
at the apple store and google play you can join the info war today check it out right
now at info wars.com forward slash app app it's the info wars official app take it on
the globalist at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help
downloading it we are unstoppable you're listening to the alex jones show
the alex jones show because there is a war on or your mind
i remember when i remember i remember when i lost my mind there was something so pleasant
about that place even your emotions have an echo in so much space and when you're out
there without care yeah i was out of touch but it wasn't because i didn't know enough
i just knew too much i just knew too much does that make me crazy does that make me crazy
does that make me crazy does that make me crazy possibly possibly you see when you're out
there all right i want to give the phone number out and take your call specifically on info
wars dot com being hacked being taken down and how they're trying to take our payment
processors how they're trying to shut down our emails how they're shut down discuss us
and just all these sick evil companies webchimp all of it when tim cook that runs the biggest
slave factories with suicide nets forced abortion china kills gay people buddhist christians
sells their organs on a damn word out of him and the new york times says he's the man
of the moral vision and he says ban info wars a week and a half ago and then like dominoes
it happens and now they're doing to all these other conservatives and all these other christians
and all these other nationalists and there's congress is asleep at the switch where one
of those little clown hats with a propeller on the top just having no idea what planet
they're on prompts distracted with a moroso and all her edited audio and all that crap
that this is how the country dies in the deep state globalist multinationals eugenicist
control freaks their ally with china they're screwing the country over and they think it's
funny they think you're stupid and they do everything they can to make you stupid so
they can be a self-fulfilling prophecy and then you look at these globalists all almost
none of them have children they're all very unhappy themselves it's just like but they
wanted power so they're in charge and they're just this is totally unamerican to have cnn
all over the news saying he's got the number one apps info wars official take it down people
aren't like whoa you people are scum I mean folks are but it's just the outrageousness
of how they like an abused woman the guys abuse them so long they're just used to it it's
like you know he's got a tire now now beating her in the head it's like they let and if
a beat up whoever they want even beat up NBC and CNN reporters and yet people like Cuomo
saying it's okay it's good or ignoring it I mean these people are a bunch of yes man
and so now the big tech companies that were born in this country are in China because that's
the globalist model of authoritarianism and it's coming here and we're the one ringing
the alarm bells so we've got to be shut down because we would dare to talk about it there's
a must-see article at info wars dot com that I'm going to read and then I'm going to go
to your calls Paul Watson's coming up he's got his guest on you know most people on their
websites taken down they're being shut down would cancel the guest but the guest you know
is in the social media and stuff and that's great so maybe we'll spend a little bit of
time on info wars being shut down but my whole deal is would people notice if we completely
shut down because you know once we go down everything goes down and they've said that
and they're the globalists and the chai comms and Soros admit they're making their move
in Hillary you wanted somebody to fight him you wanted somebody to stand up to him you
wanted somebody to take action you want us and then we started having victory everybody's
kind of like it's a video game or a TV show it's not and I look at the satanic hatred
that mainstream media has for me and they're all pathetic losers and they just want slavery
so there's info wars dot com before I hit refresh on it earlier I wonder why this doesn't work
not it matter I was anything to work here I'll just do this that'll fix that mouse thing
hardly works at the time anyways so that's where we are as a country it's where we are
as a nation where we are as a world and I guess they've got a splash page up that looks
pretty cool come for that quick info wars is under attack please visit our other channels
now news wars dot com info or store present planet dot com and twitter and of course they're
hitting and all of those you know they see it as our extermination our annihilation
is the answer to everything and they'll be this beautiful wonderful world once you shut
it down we might want to get somebody to write an article for info wars dot com about for
about an hour and 30 minutes we've been down there's a prison planet dot com we just might
I run a news organization everybody's great we just might want to get a video out that
we're down just just made something like that but you know they had the big giant ongoing
attack last week and now they're doing it everybody else and now they want the site
shut down themselves because congress and the president didn't respond to the payment
processors and the emails and the facebook and the google and the youtube and the apple
and the stitcher and the spotify and the everything else so why not america is asleep america
wants to get gang raped america wants to get pushed over america wants to get dominated
that's the big green light the deep state then the eugenicists that funded hitler and
then created china that's where they are that's what they want that's what they're doing because
we've been raised to be set in front of a television we've been raised to be spectators
so those people people are not wimps somebody walks over and watches them in the face they
just sit there because they think this is a video game they think it's funny tim cook
plants us around and you know says i'm a gay rights guy and then you know loves china you
know killing gays and said damn worried about it that's the worst horrible demonic factories
even the chai com say pay us two dollars more a day and they could have houses and he goes
fm but he's tim cook because the media said he was this big liberal he was this big god
like zuckerberg an internal email saying f everybody f u f my users that trust me it's
unconsciousness it's the culture of tv heads it's the culture of video game heads it's
the culture everybody's like the chinese aren't like that islamists aren't like that they're
just sharpening their knives constantly they see weakness and a bunch of traitors that are
ready to sell them out and at tim cook sees you know a billion five hundred million slaves
and he goes that'll be delicious it's a lot about his power now they sell you a phone
for three times what it should be sold for and it just goes on and on from that point
so i'm gonna try to be a nice boy info wars is down info wars has been hacked info wars
has been taken down it should be a major news item obviously no one even cares around here
show the toll free number is eight seven seven seven eight nine alex eight seven seven
seven eight nine two five three nine our phones work they don't want you to be able
to comment on info wars they don't want you to be able to you know have any free speech
this country but you can still call in on this subject for people taking the calls the subject
of info wars being down and what's happening and the whole move to ban free speech and
what we should do that's what the phones are open about i can have just one power in my
life it'd be occasionally on a topic i want to discuss that people call in about that
it would be amazing it would be really fantastic we'll be right back stay with us let's talk
tough let's talk comfort let's talk about down home value made in the usa blue jeans
like you wore as a kid remember there's a place down in tennessee where they make blue diamond
gusset jeans they so pride in every stitch guarantee you love the way they fit and put
a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most blue diamond gussets got it others
don't we're good old fashioned comfort get diamond gusset jeans every stitch guaranteed
and our defender motorcycle gene comes kevlar reinforced see them at g us s e t dot com that's
gusset dot com or call 8888487738 that's 8888487738 diamond gusset jeans got it others don't
alex jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift for the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years
ago i set out with top formulators in the u.s. to create the strongest most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe i know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new
product is going to end up being the number one best selling product info wars life dot
com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha
power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen
it's non gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made
the u.s.a. get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha
power today i want to plow into all of this i'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration
systems or books or videos or other material from info war store dot com you are funding
the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase
the products at info war store dot com i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've
got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic
iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed
by dr. jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or
triple a two five three three one three nine and your purchase of the products stands with
us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile
armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back
against us so we need your support choose to take control of your chemistry with survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid
and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source
of one hundred percent organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an
essential mineral sourced of ninety nine point nine nine percent ultra pure deep earth iodine
crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may
experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield
x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body take control
of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2
and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
and i grow up i want to be a rock star
we now take you live to the central texas command center in the heart of the resistance you're
there's a lot of controversy around this network about alex jones for example
alex jones the four-way conspiracy theorist who is apparently alex jones
scott russian scott info wars comes to mind reputations amazing i will not let you down
you will be very very impressed i hope they have been trying to hack and deed us attack
and sabotage our servers and people within major companies bring us down since the head
of the chinese slave factory censorship combine the head of apple mr cook mr chuckerberg and
the heads of google and alphabet decided to unperson us last sunday night eight nine days
ago and currently info wars is down they were trying to bring it down this weekend the crew
had to stay up here basically the midnight many nights and it's all a big vitriolic joke
to the left online and all these newspapers and the nightmare image of bryan stelters
crazy looking pumpkin head saying take off his apps bring down his website take his sponsors
bankrupting driving them into submission it's so unamerican it's so illegal it's so disgusting
that i get really really angry and i think about them taking our email system to be able
to email you taking discuss us away webchimp uh credio after they took ad roll away from
us that was funding much of the operation a year and a half ago now they took this away
when credio came to us and then our general counsel wants to virtue signal because apple
and google and facebook have been an internet monopoly and we're all close to imploding
you know show we have to grovel to the system this is basically what's going on hoping they
buy us up and just watching a nation of cowards and scum in corporate america who don't care
about their birthright the first amendment nothing and the chinese communists all over
the news controlling hollywood controlling what's happening there is a article that is
in the washington times today by a national security expert that works for fox news and
he's a special operations veteran and graduate of the air force academy i want to get him
on the show l todd wood and he talks about how china is the threat and how hollywood's
run by it and the telecoms and the media and how google this year walked off a defense department
project because their engineers said we will not work for america we hate you and so many
of their operatives are either chinese communists or they're in league with it the globalists
completely sold us out and now they're trying to shut down our free speech i mean hell europe
wars was down today being attacked before i went on air now it's info wars dot com's
been down for two hours and i haven't gone over all of it i've got a bunch of the articles
and bunch of documents right here but i mean i have to get on the phone with executives
for major companies and find out how their employees are deleting our software licenses
to run back end stuff for inventory that's the espionage level we're at and it shows
the democrats will go to any lengths because they've been trained to hate america in college
and they've been trained to hate america by hollywood and china owns it now and every
netflix show that's political is pro-communist china anti america it's just everywhere and
it's even admitted they run the country now i've got a stack of news here about china
putting out government broadcast in the united states that's in the la times it's incredible
how sold out we are and there you go so first it's oh you know the people at apple tim cookin
do what he wants and zucker berke do what he wants when zucker makes statements about
the publishing industry and other newspapers he goes i'll hold your hand while you are
dying like that hospice but we're not dying we're exploding so what do you do you shadow
ban us and you smother us and you manipulate us and you build straw men and you lie about
who we are you try to assassinate the truth and then you censor all these other conservatives
and libertarians and people is it backfires on you you stop covering it and now you go
after our actual infrastructure which is totally illegal go read the article it's up on info
wars dot oh i'm sorry you can't go there it's it's it's it's at the washington times alex
shones is right china is the threat and it may be too late for now you can read it on
twitter i tweeted it real alex shones but you need to get upset like you got upset last
week and send a strong message that you know what's going on and you know what's unfolding
and you're upset and you're going to take action and call congress and call the white
house and call talk radio and say we're losing our first amendment now info wars is the first
domino they're already banning everybody from laura loomer to gabham againis and everybody
else that stand up for this country and against the antifa thugs that are attacking men women
and children and against the globalist and against abc got caught doing fake stuff with
actors where a guy in a maga hat goes over and is mean to other people and tries to throw
him out of a restaurant when it's the democrats acting like that these people are out of control
they're willing to do anything and they've taken our acquiescence and they've taken our
kindnesses weakness and now they're going for broke and i'll add this again while it's
still up infowarstore.com while they haven't taken all our payment processes away people
need to vote with their dollars and let me know the a you want great products but b you're
going to support the info war into the future because this is when we need your support
this is when we need to help the other times i'm up here like i expect to be attacked we're
moving forward blah blah this is the main test right now and i expected to get even
worse in the next few weeks they want to break our will i've got to cool off and be calm
like jill scousers said earlier and not get too angry about what they're doing and trying
to fight them because i'm not depressed it's the opposite i am on fire wanting to fight
going to be politically active and involved and win but as sure as the sun came up they're
calling for violence and they're getting ready to stage violence against themselves to blame
info wars and trump and i believe that's what this is is preparation for a false fly against
a big tech giant or cnn that they will stage or their surrogates will stage then be blamed
on us and that's why this is so critical in such an emergency because they wouldn't be
doing this if they weren't planning something big going to the midterm so now is the time
of maximum vigilance on the streets calling to talk radio speaking at city council about
this where there's a buzz so big that we let the democrats know you're carrying out a criminal
deal with the chai comms you think you're gonna be there's an american awakening you're
gonna snuff it out and bring in civil war and civil unrest and shut us all down it ain't
happening in every city council in every globalist organization in every newspaper politely and
nicely needs to be let known we know you guys are having your antifa meetings we know you're
organizing this crap and we see through you so we've got why should i even free shipping
the best products everything right now we barely make money on a lot of these products we sell
them so low so we can be competitive in the market but i need people to understand fund
us to fight the bullies to save the internet to save info wars it's still standing right
now even though they're all over it filing fake complaints on us saying we've held child
porn on there to take it down i'm getting the reports i'm getting who the people are
by the time i sue some of them will already be through the election in civil war but don't
worry i'm gonna start suing because i gotta let these people know just like with the lawsuits
you sue me i go after you but you want somebody to fight i'm fighting but i need your support
and your prayers and to spread the links now it's happening this is worse than last week
info wars.com is down i'm gonna take this live video put it on twitter everywhere else
get it out folks take action don't let them break your will your call straight ahead
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill
plus is an all new version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great
formula that supports your heart brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine
boost included a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill they quickly become one
of our fellow info wars favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend
inside including green tea extract your remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra
pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff
that real red pill has but it's also got the boost at it get the real red pill plus at
info wars store.com we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg first demonize
info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that then have
a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children
and islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens
of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info
wars.com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever
you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info
wars.com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact
with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell
folks about info wars.com forward slash show how they can download the free android and
iphone apps how they can then reach out to others with the information point out this
is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to see years ago info wars life created
a powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more
toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we had to create a bigger and better
formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the result of the search for that
formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of
yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body fight back micro
zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked
powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract pal darko
bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro
zx plus today at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com staying healthy on
the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements don't work
fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super
blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a half ounce
and sixteen ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen or wherever
you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever
you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula just
a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with powerful
yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing
alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable
helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only
available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com you're listening to
the alex jones show all right paul joseph watch is coming up on the coast some of them he's
got a very special guest i just want to beat the sensors and yes you've made the app number
one you've given a five star review millions have gone and signed up for the podcast same
same thing has gone on with the with the info wars dot com for slash newsletters we can email
you and get around the sensors but info wars dot com is down right now so let me just make
this one minute statement so i can get it out there there is an attack on our birthright
of free speech they are taking people's speech across the board all nationalists all conservatives
are being shadow banned and dialed down to nothing now they're going to total deplatforming
with the chinese communist social score system coming here apple and google have moved to
china they're admittedly implementing it here with the democrats senator warner senator
murphy are admitting they're coming in with the e u style censorship and working with
china this is treason this is outrageous and we're so used to freedom we don't know what
we're dealing with we don't know how to respond to this this is violating campaign finance
law for the democrats it is manipulating the election this is real this is happening and
info wars dot com is down we have news wars dot com we have prison planet dot com we have
info wars store dot com so you can support us you can still get the apps for now seeing
ends lobbying to have those taken down along with the criminal new york times owned by
foreign corrupt kingpin this is like a sick nightmare but this is how america falls if
we don't wake up and take action i'm alex jones and i won't back down i won't get into these
dirents and i'm counting on you to do the same but now is the time to raise the alarm
against this takeover all right julie michael duke mark erin fernando stefan kevin carter
john lily matthew we'll start taking your phone calls here this is up first let's go
to julie and canada julie thanks for holding her on the air go ahead alex thanks for taking
our call my husband and i watch your show every day we love it and i just wanted to say that
your super blue toothpaste is a fantastic product i recommended highly to everybody and i just
wanted to mention that what happens in the states happens in canada and we're very very
concerned that trump's they might not get elected if he doesn't deal with this issue
this is affecting a lot of people i don't know what you think about i totally agree this
is the issue this is the end of the first amendment it's more important than the second
because it's absolutely critical and we can't speak out for the second amendment or the
fourth and then it's all gone julie and you're absolutely right and trump is dropping the
ball because he's always distracted with amaroza and you know all this other crud but somebody's
got to be able to get a hold of him and talk to him i don't know i got him info three
weeks ago and then all hell broke loose that's another reason they're after me they know
we're getting stuck to trump and i'm trying in between trying to keep us on air to get
a report up of the examples and what should be done and some of my connections the white
house just went cold i mean it's it's this is some they're making their move god bless
you julie we love you yeah canada is under a lot of draconian censorship now where we
read bible verses you get arrested i mean they're taking mother and father out of the
national anthem it's incredible let's take a call from michael in the netherlands over
there in the dutch areas uh michael go ahead you're on the air hi alex welcome in the europe
you're a great show it's a great show i have one question yes sir why why is info wars
not working together with wiki leaks mark dies and david ike together i've been inviting david
on for about a year and a half because i'm pro trump he won't come on uh and then wiki leaks
has their own thing they've defended us but they're mainly mainline leftist but but they're
actually real liberals so they're good people it's just that they're scared of the propaganda
about me the straw men's they don't come on and then mark dies does come on he's a one man show
and he needs a lot more help he's very talented and i've tried to hire mark dies but he's kind
of you know likes where he is in san diego so there's your answer okay but but it's about it's
about the the mainstream media who is attacking now info wars so i thought when you're both together
fight do it no i totally agree and we need all these other hosts who i have on the naked sensor
when they took mark dies's youtube channel away years ago i rallied for him and helped him get
it back and mark's been helping us but just yes if they can get me they can get everybody god bless
you michael okay duke in tennessee duke you're on the air worldwide go ahead this is duke contacting
gijo headquarters to report that cobra has in fact taken over the broadcast energy transmitter
and has shut down alex jones and info wars dot com i do have uh photographic evidence say that
august 7 2018 uh verifying that apple and their software uh would not load alex jones live wet
uh webcast feed the media could not be loaded either because the server or network failed
or because the format is not supported wait a minute so what i've been told by it is even though
info wars is down our streams are still going out you're telling me you want an apple platform
and now they're not even loading the show that was last monday i had this happen to me so this
was this was going on since at least last monday today i went on i mean i'm under total cyber
attack i'm getting reports from it that china is not even hiding it we have china out of beijing
and peaking hitting us with daus attacks but that was but this isn't a daus takedown a d daus takedown
they're hitting us in the servers themselves well the store may also be compromised i just placed
in order today uh because one of the only things i knew to do was to to fight even harder was to
contribute to info wars dot com i pledged an auto shipment every 30 days in the amount of
101 dollars in honor of the 101st airborne division that i served with in combat twice
in afghanistan and iraq and i wanted to let everybody know out there now is the time we
need to stand up we need to speak out we need to get the word out alex jones info wars the first
domino in this war the fire is burning and i've got a message for the globalist we'll never give up
we'll stay till the fight's won gi joe is there because alex jones is a real american hero the
cobra believes i will beat you will be defeated china and kim cook and zuckerberg will defeat you
god bless having some fun there seriously the store is all secured super high quality and has
all this all this all the certificates and things it's they're trying to take the payment processors
where the companies won't then process your order so get your orders in while you can i mean
they did this the nra a year ago and then six months ago and an nra had to sue and file injunctions
for a couple days you know nra could not take your orders for a t-shirt or a membership remember that
and they were doing it to like cabela's and stuff so i mean they're moving against everybody
folks this is them telling you you can't commerce you can't talk to who you want so
i'll tell you bottom line i just want to win this war and i want to see big dollar signs in
four store because you know we've been kind of in the red the last six months with all the censorship
and stuff but i'd i'd save money to pay for things so but now it's like the lawsuits and all of it
we need to make a lot of money now we need to bring it in to fund things so i can just fire hose the
enemy and get injunctions against him and get top lawyers we're getting it all set up and we'll have
some big w's that's why they're doing all this he planned for me now i've been beating their fake
lawsuits and i don't want to get into the details of that but they haven't filed any new ones in
months and months because i sue the people that sue me except for sandy hook i waived that
when you counter sue and they lied and said i did sue so it's total deception the media thinks
they'll defeat you they're not going to defeat you okay mark erin franando got a whole bunch of
colors here stefan um this is how do you beat censorship they're asking you just spread the
word by word of mouth nothing can stop you they can shut me down you can go tell the truth nothing's
going to stop you go to city council meetings calling to talk radio nothing can stop you just
make it part of your daily life let's talk to john and boston john in boston massachusetts thanks for
calling you're on the air alex it is so good to be with you the last time i spoke to you was the
day of the state of the union when i said that trump should declassify the nunas memo and go out there
and read it um you know last season a homeland they really tried to drive the point home of the
character that's supposed to be like you be in a nut and really use a coward and it was fake news so
they've been trying to set this up for everybody so exactly they have like 10 tv shows where they
admit it's supposedly me and i'm a bad guy and then exactly what we really need to do for you alex
is your listeners and supporters and info warriors is we need to start a hashtag something like who
is alex jones where we can count of the narrative of the straw man and go out there and support you
and show who you really are i agree because it's bigger than me i mean i'm already signed on to this
whatever i don't care what they say or do about me but it's reflected on everybody now if people
could say alex predicted this was right he was predicted that was right and just say here's the
real alex jones maybe a hashtag real alex jones and then explain to everybody that i mean yeah
that's why they're so scared is we've got their game plan because they're going to try something
and they're going to try to blame it on you just like you said so we need to get out in front of
this is your listeners you know we support you i'm praying so you well i support you john i'm
not just saying this you are the info war brother hey i appreciate it we're in this together um you
know i just got a new shipment of you know your deodorant my wife won't use anything else for a
life you know uh beef wells i got t-shirts everything because i really you know want to be a part of
this fight and i love you man i love you let me tell you when i asked the listeners for support
and i say you're the info war you are it you don't understand it's like you're not just saying that
without you we're gone we're gone i don't even care about what happens to me now i want to beat
these globalists and hillary and soros and we're going to do it even if i don't make it through
this we're going to make it through let's stay stay with us we'll be back for the fourth hour paul
wasn't coming up spread the live links we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it
together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave
us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal
and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature that
are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a classical
360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want
to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that
patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the
remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused
as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now
it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com as the years go by it gets harder
and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients
and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and
minerals needed daily that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula
the new platinum standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique
delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins
minerals amino acid than more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and
affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
so
i hate censorship i love truth
all right we're able to divert to a server for now
that has a splash page that diverts folks to news wars dot com prison planet dot com
info wars dot com has been attacked i don't people don't want to get into this we have
denial of service attacks d dos attacks that's been going on for weeks but this is people inside
origin servers we believe that have flipped it off so this is the rebellion level and a test case
ahead of the midterms i believe just like youtube four or five months ago took us down and said oh
there was a rebellion they were wrong they were untrained they took you down it wasn't true what
you said because we could put up the real video what i said versus what they said but they finally
made the decision eight days ago nine days ago with the head of apple and others to take us down
and then like dominos it happened paul gut level what do you think's going on because we're important
but not that important we're a test case this is seeing if congress and the president noticed
oh they're worried about amorosa this is this is never before it happened the de-platforming
off 25 platforms going after our credit card processors going after our email systems going
after our servers that aren't even servers for web servers for inventory i mean this is unprecedented
well it's nothing more than a cyber attack alex isn't it it's full on cyber warfare and of course
we have to trace it back to the origins which was a cnn campaign in association with buzzfeed i might add
to lobby these big tech firms to censor info wars then it snowballed from there now it's
literally cyber attacking our website you know they all said when this began over a week ago
oh alex jones isn't being censored you know private companies can do what they like alex
jones still has his own website and in fact even joe rogan got blessing but even joe rogan said that
well now we don't even have our own website because of what is obviously a cyber we didn't
have email or comments they're taking everything yeah so it's not just private companies making
decisions this is for political persecution cyber warfare and the people behind it are going to be
exposed there's also this whole narrative that we hear from cnn every single day there's a war on
the press oh my god there's a war on the press being led by donald trump there's no war on the
press there's no war on the course the universities and press are waging war on the first amendment
exactly that's the real war on independent journalists because mainstream journalists
don't do journalism anymore they just lobby big corporations to shut down the competition
and call it journalism the war is on independent journalists people like laura luma who was shut
down the other day for doing independent journalism oh keith everyone else who actually get original
stories the war is on them the war is on non-corporate news outlets that don't take giant fat checks from
george sorrell so get paid for advertising by dictates ships in the middle east like cnn does
the war is on the people who are being censored and banned every single day by these legacy
media companies which were dying and losing their audience so they concerted they colluded they
conspired with big tech with giant corporations in silicon valley to shut down their competition
well let me ask you this this is next level though doing denial of service but now people
inside shutting this off somewhere because we're looking this is like flipped off this is like
it's just turned off i mean i think it's a precursor to to what they're going to do to
trump i think we're going to see industrial sabotage nation-wide ball that's exactly what it is it's
sabotage and this is why the administration people around the administration need to speak out on
this immediately i mean there was one trump tweet about twitter shadow banning a couple of weeks ago
that actually had somewhat of an effect twitter's now come out whether you believe them or not at
least we're still on twitter and said they're launching a charm offensive with conservatives to
talk to me so you know it had some impact there let's see what they're going to do next because
they need to do something my god this is so epic and so historical and i it means we're doing our
job but i just can't believe they're trying i mean now info wars dot com is down news wars dot com
and prison planet dot com are still up europe wars was down earlier it's on a different server
our sites don't go down folks we have the big fancy stuff i mean they are hitting us hard please please
spread the word we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue
info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every
faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide clean
water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system is an
advanced four-stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire
home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install and
maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you
in your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this one filter for
clean and refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store dot com and whether it's your
first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time
to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today
he aligns himself with the truth that it's time for you to choose a side you're listening to alex jones
is hanging around
all watching is hosting this hour he's about to take over as a special guest take a few calls
in the segment before i leave you the war is coming up in about 15 minutes
paul we were talking during the break about how desperate the deep state and the global star
this is a very bold move to deplatform us a bunch of other libertarian conservatives and then to
internally take down our sites and i know i got a bunch of inside baseball i'm not going to name
companies yet because i've had the companies admit no this is not an official decision and stop
where it's it's not just deplatforming it's saying software we pay for we can't use this is literally
trying to put us into an electronic gulag that drudge report warned about there's now a story
up on news wars dot com info wars dot com site goes down amid big tech censorship and so we
got a splash page apple another server i'm told it's having problems this is like something out
of a movie or you read about as a kid in a science fiction book what do you think's going on watching
well obviously you've got mob out outrage witch hunts who have been called to the to the cause
by basically big tech you remember zuckerberg said oh first we need to establish whether this is
just brigading whether this is mobs of people politically demanding we take down info wars
for partisanship reasons it obviously was from the very start but he said oh no it's not that
now this is that this is what this is witch hunt brigades radicalized by mainstream media propaganda
and now they're trying to take down the website you know they've had fundraisers for people like
tomy robinson in the past and the banks get pressured not to even open account so you can
fundraise so they literally target people to make them not allowed to have bank accounts
they delisted you from linkedin which is a pure unpersoning you don't even upload any content
to linkedin it's impossible to do so but this is all about power this is all about sabotage
i mean what don't they want people to see alex what's happening in sweden last night which got
banned on facebook by the way videos of these migrant mobs these youth gangs torching vehicles in
numerous different cities okay they don't want people to see that because then people will vote
for the parties the anti-globalist parties that will see to that and you know offer actual solution
so it's not working the sweden democrats and the elections next month are five points ahead
they're probably going to win if there's no election meddling so whatever they do they can't
keep a lid on this stuff and by censoring us and attacking us it only draws more attention to it
but they are they are completely without morals they moral grandstand all day and say
oh we're just enforcing terms of service there was a left-wing latin american news website which
was basically venezuelan socialist propaganda they took that down on facebook just last night
so you know they all cheered when they took down info was are you going to celebrate and cheer
when these left-wing websites start getting taken down and the answer from what i've seen is
yes they will because they're complete hypocrites well what it is is people groveling to the deep
state big mega titan companies power bunch of powerless people seeking after power but as you
said a truck attack running over more people at parliament they find a muslim training camp and
people call in saying there's a dead kid there and there is a dead kid and they go but it's racist
so they let him go and there's a dead kid there and and you know all this is gone they say well
it's racist your muslims will let you go seeing anyone even say it's islamic attacks happening
in sweden even though as you said they're running around screaming a lot bar burning now thousands
of cars uh and sweden's answer is bring in more muslims where does all this end paul well it ends
in the instability the destabilization of society if you try and drive these you know fringe voices
which are not even fringe at this point underground you only make the situation worse you only make
people more resentful this attack in london today the first narrative they came out with
was that this was borris johnson's fault because he had written an article saying by the way i
don't think the burka should be banned but these people wearing it don't fit in with our culture
basically they look like letterboxes now they're tweeting today that it's his fault because he
whipped up hatred and division remember this is why we got banned apparently he whipped up hatred
and division so they're literally siding with the ideology that the that justified the charlie
hebdo attack by saying oh these muslims were offended so they have the right to buy it gets worse
some tourists took a selfie of the police cars and stuff that was the outrage that they did that
not another islamicist running over people i mean this is they're bending over backwards but the
islamicists are getting more and more violent why do you think they burned down so much of sweden
last night well swedans had these problems for years and years i mean that the male companies
some of them have refused to even deliver to certain areas now so i mean it helps the sweden
democrats let's be honest they'll probably start saying that they did it i mean they've tried to
declare that's the pro nationalist group up you know obviously but but why why do the islamicists
not get jobs why do they not integrate why are they just so hateful well in sweden i think it's
the majority of people in sweden on welfare are migrants most of those are muslim migrants but it's
because they live in these closed communities and they're on welfare and they don't feel the need
to learn english i mean they went around bradford which is a northern uk city a couple weeks ago
with sky news and they were asking muslims wearing full burkas what does it mean to you
to be british and they they answered i don't understand english so they cannot even respond
to the question of what does it mean to be british but they know how to have chips on their
shoulders i'm going to let you take over i got a lot of callers sorry the other callers i may have
time to get to one here but financial support folks in fullwarstore.com this is total war thousands
of articles a day saying shut us down george soros hillary if you'll just buy some products great
fluoride free toothpaste fortified clotal silver iodine it's free shipping right now 50 off bunch
of other products get water filtration air filtration x2 everybody needs this just make
the decision to get in the war to get in the fight and we will defeat all this i'm going to go on the
end no matter what happens but i tell you we need a lot of capital right now get a t-shirt get some
books get some videos in fullwarstore.com get knockout the great healthy herbal sleep aid it's
amazing uh get the real red pill plus now with energy get bodies ultimate turmeric formula alpha
power brain force plus all of its there in fullwarstore.com in force live.com or triple a 2533139
we've got uh you know erin asking what's the mechanics of the attack insiders shut us off
fernando asks the severity of censorship stefan in pennsylvania how the plan of combating censorship
i mean how do we do it get congress acting the bigger uh plan besides censorship let's talk to
kevin in virginia kevin what's the bigger plan beyond censorship you're with paul watson go ahead
well i think this bigger plan of censorship ahead of the midterms has nothing to do with
the midterms i think it has to do with shutting down the opposition and the dissent of this event
of whatever's about to happen now i agree i think the big terror attack or false flags are getting
ready to stage that they're pumping that'll be against the media or the tech companies
they don't want us on air when they stage it to create their big sympathy thing go ahead
yeah absolutely um you know it's remember this remember this the people that did 9 11
these people don't have empathy these by the way that's that's brennan and all these guys
were involved in 9 11 a muller all yeah they don't have empathy they're going to do whatever it is
they can do because they have no uh what's the word they have no uh remorse and they have no
no they don't know what consequences are that's why these people do the things that they do how do
you fight that well you got to take them out we it's it's time it is time for us to rise up it is
time well i'm not going to call for offensive violence but you know when they stage stuff
it'll be some innocent cops or whatever i think soros these globalists all these people are clear
and present dangers and i just pray that the america and the world wake up to and i appreciate
your call kevin but uh the they're coming for us antifa is calling for violence the media is
covering it up paul gut level do you think a big event's coming i think they're clearly hyping one
i don't know if the big event is the midterm elections alex that's the biggest event that's
coming in the next few months but just harking back to the arrogance of it all zuckerberg you know
it's unclear whether it's him or one of his executives in facebook saying we will help you
revitalize journalism in a few years the reverse looks like how they're holding hands with your
dying business like in a hospice the sheer arrogance of these people given that facebook loses
three million users in the us alone every year under the age of 25 okay they're going to end up
like the next myspace anyway so the solution is to continue to erode their reputation and that's
why they're making their move against real choice because they're dying they're a fraud
and zuckerberg thinks you're a bunch of dumb aphors great job prisonplanet.com news wars.com
for now's up they're going to test us now they think hey take down his website will they get upset
about that are you upset because let me tell you this is a real killer in the coal mine info wars
now taken down by some mole inside a server operation we believe hi i'm dan pilla i started
fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house i sued the irs in one
i beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since i wrote the book on tax debt settlement
and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved
i can help you too if you owe taxes you can't pay don't wait another day there's no such thing as a
hopeless tax case call 800 34 no tax or go to my website danpilla.com that's danpilla.com danpilla.com
it's an o-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter
that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original
most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent
off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 1-877-99 burky or big burky water filters
dot com that's 1-877-99 b-e-r-k-e-y i tried other brands that i came back to my sunshine for the
best hot or cold pain relief get the best get a sunny bay heating pad sometimes life can be a pain
in the neck or back or solder and the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad did you
know that the american college of physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is
heat therapy sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality can be used at home or at work
and have a lifetime 100 positive rating on both amazon and etsy why take another pill many people
use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain long distance travel or long
hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body our homegrown small business tries to
help people just like us that's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before
we introduce them to the public you can easily find sunny bay heating pads on amazon just go to
amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me
leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that
then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens
of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot
com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever you're
subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter and give us your email so that we can stay in contact with you
and send you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about
info wars dot com forward slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they
can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info this is
what they don't want you to see the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly
on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand
new version of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the red pill plus
is an all-new version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that
supports your heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included
a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill has quickly become one of our fellow info wars
favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
remonte leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your mind and
body in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
you found it the tip of the spear it is the alex jones show and now your host paul joseph watson
we're live it is the fourth hour of the most fan censored broadcast in the western hemisphere at
this point info wars and we're going to be joined at the bottom of the hour by bill artman who is
the head honcho over at minds.com which as far as i know is the biggest alt tech social media
website in existence right now never has it been needed more than right now so we're going to talk
to him about big tech censorship about ways we can fight back at the bottom of the hour the other
thing i wanted to mention is alex talked about getting the products to support as we're literally
being shut down right now people said from the start oh alex jones still has his free speech
he isn't being censored he isn't being banned he still has his own website well now he doesn't
because that's being shut down as well isn't it amazing how they can shift their justifications
from minute to minute based on the fact that they've got mob outrage brigades of basically
electronic witch hunt mobs attacking as at every level imaginable but still we linger on and we
will survive and thrive with your support so please get the products but if you want to do
something really quick right now you can go to the website when it comes back or i think you can
go to prison planet as well you'll see the same thing and press the donate button again it's
going to be on prison plan it's going to be back on info wars whenever we get the website back up
but at the bottom of the articles there's a section where you can donate directly via paypal or visa
and you can do that and that helps us out too so please do that as soon as possible when the
website comes back for the time being i'm going to go through this article on bri bar which is
headlined why tech giants aren't the same as christian bakeries because this is the other
non excuse they try out every single time we're censored oh if conservatives can refuse service
for for a gay couple to refuse to bake a gay wedding cake then why can't silicon valley
corporate giants be platform you and silence you forever because the two are really comparable aren't
they now the subheadline here is christian bakeries can't kill your business this is the key point
financial institutions are heavily regulated in part because failures on their part affect the
livelihoods of so many other people now we go on to the point of info wars being financially
attacked this is the level it's reached if a bank messes up people can lose years even decades of
investment social media companies and online payment processors have grown to similar level of
influence when facebook tweaked its algorithm and this happened back in february largely without
warning it cut traffic to even non-political viral website called little things by 75 percent
then guess what happened they had to shut their business down they had to lay off a 100 strong
workforce so when you get de-platformed on social media if you're reliant on it to that extent
which this website was thankfully we weren't i think there was a study which found about
10 percent of traffic that came to info wars came from social media so we had it direct
mostly which is how we've been able to survive but in this case this website which was non-political
was put out of business along with 100 employees because facebook tweaked its algorithm okay that
is very different from one single christian bakery refusing to bake a gay wedding cake they can go to
virtually any other bakery in the town in the city and receive that service once you banned
off facebook and youtube and google and apple there are no equivalent services that the free
market can provide where you can go because this is not a free market these companies are acting
as monopolies they're private companies private giant corporations that control the public discourse
and they need to be broken up it's like saying oh you know this other argument which is why don't
you just build your own social network because that's so easy isn't it it's like saying if you get
cut off from your power supply if the electricity company cuts off your power supply people coming
to you and saying why don't you just start your own electricity company no that's not an argument
you get cut off from your phone service oh just start your own phone company just start erecting
your own phone masks that's a solution isn't it no it isn't a solution it's hair brained it's pie in
the sky so these big websites which were not even political were put out of business not even through
being censored directly by facebook but through being but through the algorithm being tweaked and
then that negative negatively affected their output they went out of business 100 people got
laid off according to a report by digi-date entire business models built around the distribution
of viral content on facebook were rendered unviable via the platform's rapid shift and you barely even
heard about this when it happened back in february here's another point christian bakeries can't
swing an election president trump has begun to take notice of big tech's progressive bias
recently calling out twitter for shadow grand funding prominent republicans and the president's
campaign manager brad pascale who managed trump social media operations to great success obviously
in 2016 is also keenly aware of the problem as well they should be annoying though biased
legacy media like cnn may be biased social media is a far greater threat facebook claims to have
boosted votes vote to turn out by three percent in 2016 by making small tweaks to their algorithm
listen to this studies have shown that if search engines like google manipulated their results to
favor political candidates which we already know they've manipulated their search results to down
rank conservative websites they can shift between two and three million votes in a national election
in fact they almost certainly already did in 2016 in favor of hillary clinton so how much
more could they shift in 2020 this is why this is so huge this is why trump needs to at least
tweet about it this is why we need some kind of action in congress we need hearings we need lawmakers
to sit up and pay attention in the republican party otherwise they can forget about the midterms
they can forget about 2020 okay when are you going to realize how important this is continues
modern modern elections are won and lost on social media not legacy media brad pascal knows this he
led the digital operations team the outclassed hillary clinton in 2016 the democrats know this too
which is why they're working so hard to turn social media platforms into little more than
conduits for the legacy media which is the point i've made before you go back before the beginning
of this year and you look at cnn you look at ms mbc and these are the network mainstream network
channels on youtube they were getting their butts handed to them on a regular basis in
terms of subscribers and views by independent content creators what happened youtube flipped
a switch they admittedly and they announced this they were proud of it deliberately rigged their
own algorithm to put mainstream legacy corporate media content above independent media content
what happened cnn subscribers started climbing up rapidly their viewers started climbing up
rapidly on youtube because youtube google gained the system this is why this is so important
we're all slaves to the algorithm and until these fusty republicans who who you know have these
hearings with zuckerberg and they don't even know how facebook makes money they don't even know about
advertising online these people needs it needs to be explained to them how important this can be
given that this can and has shifted millions of votes they had an example case and this was robert
epstein we've talked about him before who did a study and found that google could shift millions
of votes by ranking search results that are positive towards one candidate over another
above the one they want to downgrade the one they want to downvote in the algorithm
they found that that could shift votes to change the result of the largest democratic election
in the world in india this is the power that these big chet tech giants wield this is why
they need to be broken up right now we need action now this is completely out of control
we'll be back with minds dot com's bill osmond on the next side stay with us info wars dot com
heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may
not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops
poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something
is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across
america my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now
how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend
heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using
this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two
months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos
you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you the
info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure
that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of
their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us
with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever
to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations
you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot
com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning info wars life is launching
its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got
the very best concentrated fibers uh from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known
to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically
works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as myco zx that targets the yeast
the mold and the funguses in the gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new
incredible fiber product and these other products you get them separately or together and make really
really big savings and get high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce
these products to you bodies sold out in a month uh strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can
come up with it sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out
and i think it's gonna be the same way with this fiber get yours today info wars life dot com living
in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found here in leilani
estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need to be concerned about ash
and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the
ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals
alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and
acidity in the rain water next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity filter and not
only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored to optimal
levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the water so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain water supply but more importantly
a good water filtration system will purify it you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your
host paul joseph watson the live is fourth hour of the most censored broadcast in the western
hemisphere at this point and i'm delighted to be joined right now by bill othman who is founder of
minds dot com an alternative social media network that doesn't censor that doesn't shadow van and
that aligns itself with the first amendment bill welcome next round me paul now first off obviously
i want to get your take on this as info wars dot com itself is under cyber attack they said oh alex
jones isn't being censored he still has his own website now he doesn't have his own website okay
but obviously we've been digitally executed by the social media giants over the past week
you know gabin mckinnis banned by twitter laura luma banned by facebook even today a left wing
latin american news network telecern which is basically fennel's whale and socialist propaganda
even they got banned by facebook do you think there's anything in the timing about how all this
seems to um intensified over the last 10 days or so well i think it's the key point that you just
said it's affecting both the left and the right and the world needs to understand that censorship
affects everyone and just because it's not you right now doesn't mean it's not going to be you
later that's why you see you know you mentioned gnome chomsky the electronic frontier foundation
real internet freedom advocates across the spectrum understand that censorship is not the answer
exactly we had gnome chomsky the uh preeminent icon basically on the subject of free speech in
the west for decades and decades he's like 89 years old now or something come out in an email on the
weekend and defend info was basically saying that this arbitrary notion of hate speech is just going
to end up deep-sixing everyone's right to free speech you've got cnn right now if they want to
flash up a headline it's on information liberation cnn alex jones's hate speech is a form of terrorism
they've actually now got a cnn opinion contributor saying that our hate speech which was nebulous
and never defined by any of these companies is now terrorism so now they're going even further
we've got this whole argument which we hear again and again bill which i covered in the previous
segment you know giant corporations they're just private companies they can enforce their own
terms of service they can do what they like their private companies well my argument has always been
no their giant corporations are all centered in the same area of san francisco they act like
monopolies they're they're private companies but they control the public discourse studies show they
can shift millions of views and as we've seen over the past 10 years they're obviously abusing their
power to meddle in elections and silence their political opposition which as he said is just
going to end up affecting everyone left or right how do you respond to this tiresome argument that
they're just private companies they can just do as they wish well yeah the thing is that it amplifies
the problems that they're trying to silence you would think that with all of the access to analytics
and data that they have they would understand that they're also peer reviewed studies that show that
censorship amplifies whatever it's trying to censor this is why you know your site is probably growing
rapidly right now and so what we're calling for at minds.com is for tech sites across the world to
adopt a free speech policy because then you avoid all of this subjective decision making
and inconsistency which we're seeing on major social networks and it's just it's a it's a losing battle
for them so you advocate some kind of digital bill of rights which was obviously have to have some
kind of state backing I mean some kind of Trump administration backing to at least give it symbolic
teeth to outline exactly what free speech rights people should have on the internet and with minds.com
as far as I understand you basically align it with the first amendment right you say anything
that's not illegal is fair game that's correct right that's correct so you're advocating a kind
of digital bill of rights where it would apply to everyone across the political spectrum yeah and it
makes it easier for tech companies I think that they're feeling so much social pressure to censor
because of x y and z reason and you know Twitter started off as the free quote unquote the free
speech wing of the free speech party and you know that all the executives are having an existential
crisis which is probably why in force is still on Twitter because they know if they ban you guys
from there it's just they're going to lose a huge audience and what they're forgetting is that open
discourse doesn't mean that you endorse what the people are saying just because you're willing to
have a conversation to someone doesn't mean you necessarily agree on all the issues so you know
these digital town halls are supposed to be open forums and you know but regardless of that this
is why we're moving toward more towards more of a decentralized architecture we've just integrated
a cryptocurrency for our payment system so if you check out minds.com slash token you know we're
we don't want to be censored by Stripe or PayPal or any of these other platforms crypto can't get
censored granted you know it's a new technology but it's decentralized and it can't get taken down
so so we're moving more towards that direction now you mentioned um you know these these brigades
of mobs that the pressure companies into banning people into banning content that's exactly what's
happened it was ironic because in the comments that were reported by the New York Times where they
admit Zuckerberg made the decision to pull the plug on info wars he personally made the decision
so he literally got billionaires running giant corporations that get to decide what we can see
and hear on the internet and much of the left applaud and clap and celebrate it but you also
have him apparently reportedly expressing concern that this whole move to censor info wars could
have started by a brigading operation which we see routinely with groups like sleeping giant
they pressure advertisers to pull out of bright bar and he acknowledged that that was probably
what was happening but then he went ahead and did it anyway now that's happening even to the extent
where our website is under cyber attack because of these witch hunt mob brigades who by the way
have basically ruined twitter and that's why that went down the down the plug hole but going back
to mines.com you know how do you distinguish yourself from these other old tech networks
because there's been a lot that sprung up you've had bitch you for example which is trying to
rival youtube obviously they don't have anywhere near the funding the resources how do you differentiate
how do you distinguish mines from networks like gab and others that have also sprung up at the
same time what makes mines different. One of the key differentiators that all of our software is
fully free and open source which means that anyone can inspect it modify it see what it's doing make
sure it's not spying on you you can actually clone our entire site if you want to make your own app
I think that bitch you is actually going to open source I don't I consider this essential if there's
no transparency then I'm sorry you're just following all the proprietary juggernauts there has to be a
new paradigm of transparency in the software additionally what you were saying with advertising
networks starting to censor you know it doesn't make sense if you're selling computers you want
to sell computers the beliefs of your viewers or whoever you're serving ads on the viewers need
to purchase things so this is dangerous precedent in the advertising world so we created actually
our own ad network that's fully peer-to-peer Paul people can go to your mines channel and send you
tokens directly they can send you offers of tokens so that you'll advertise their content on your
channel we're actually trying to take ourselves out of the equation so that creators and users
can directly interface with each other and send each other offers for exchange of distribution
all right I think I've got about 80 000 followers right now on mines which all I use it for is
basically to send out my own articles I don't use it anywhere near as much as Twitter probably we'll
be using it more in the future given the way that things are going but I'm not correct in saying that
you can now hold video on there as well that's correct right yeah we host video I mean look look
at what's happening to all of the networks they're sort of becoming the same thing coalescing into
the very similar app social now every site is becoming a social network so you know we have
groups we have a whole blogging platform we host videos we have news feeds we have mobile apps on
Android and iOS which you should definitely check out and you know it's just it's a race and we're
trying to keep up and the fact that we're open source allows developers all over the world to
help us build the product and make it better and you know we're just seeing growth just like you
guys are because these issues and scandals whether it's Cambridge Analytica it's one after the other
it just every day there's a new one and it's unbelievable that they're not smart enough to
change their behavior I don't it doesn't make sense by the way just in 20 seconds how many new
users have you got over the past month since this big tech censorship purge has intensified
we've seen hundreds of thousands of new users over the last month even from Vietnam where
there's censorship legislation going through what people say I'll just start your own social media
network it's very impossible very hard to do so Bill Ockman has done it at minds.com go there
and sign up right now we'll be back in the next segment to finish up with Bill and cover the rest
of the news this is the Alex Jones show live 4th hour info wars dot com while it's still up on the
internet we'll be back now go away we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg first demonize
info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that then have a few fake
strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and islamophobia and then
voila two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all
in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot com forward slash show subscribe to the
free podcast just click on the link whatever you're subscribing your podcast in it'll pop up there
there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails
so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform but
whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com forward slash show how they can download the free
android and iphone apps how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out
this is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to see info wars life and info wars
life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release winter sun a revolutionary
type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced
by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed
for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the
best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best
source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over two years but the result as verified
by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product in the world read the facts
at info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood
but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something the globalists are targeting
visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139 alex jones here with an extremely exciting
announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist
and live in a free society several years ago i set out with top formulators in the us to create
the strongest most concentrated over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe
i know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that
this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product info wars life
dot com because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power
exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for
your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the us day get your alpha power
today at info wars life dot com everybody needs to try alpha power today you deserve a deep restful
sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin
knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of
people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life
we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10
known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on
the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show live from the info wars dot com studios you're
listening to the alex jones show and now your host paul joseph what's in the back with phil
hotman of find dot com we're going to go back to him here in a second but cnn has literally
published an article and the headline on cnn is this is from august the 10th so it's four days
ago now let me find the headline here from one of their contributors raffia's a car as a carrier
it's an important step in recognizing hate speech as a form of terrorism she says let me
find the exact quote where she says and i quote info wars is complicit in domestic terror cnn has
literally published an article claiming that info wars is complicit in domestic terrorism
with no evidence whatsoever to black back up that claim they published an article somehow it got by
their lawyers and that is up on cnn dot com right now it's uh we need to talk about alex jones is
the main headline they've got a series of uh contributors of commentators speaking to that
issue and one of them raffia's a carrier says sadly domestic terrorism or jones is dangerous
speech in which he claims that he is in a holy war against islam he's not prosecuted in that statue
she goes on to say let me find the exact quote info wars is complicit in domestic terror that is on
cnn right now she says the new decision she's talking about big tech banning info wars is a step
forward in recognizing that hate outlets such as info wars remember the left wing telly sir was
also called a hate outlet by facebook they were banned hate outlets such as info wars are complicit
in domestic terror and a relief to muslim americans like myself who have been the target of online
assaults and threats now the splc um back you last year i think it was a little year before
called uh majeed duaz a muslim reformist called him an anti muslim extremist they had to pay out
three million dollars in court um for libeling him now cnn has literally claimed that info wars is
complicit in domestic terror via one of their contributors that is up right now live on cnn's
website so i'll be interested in seeing the fallout from that as we go forward but going back
to bill othman of minds dot com a social network that doesn't ban people that doesn't shadow ban
people that doesn't censor people bill facebook they're they're losing nearly three million
users under the age of 25 in the us alone every single year we see twitter their growth have stalled
has stalled we see zuckerberg or one of his executives in a private meeting reportedly
saying they quote they quote don't care about publishers and they warned that if publishers
didn't work with them quote i'll be holding your hands with your dying business like in a hospice
is zuckerberg's arrogance going to come back to haunt him how many years before how many more years
before these platforms are in terminal decline if they're not already they are already i mean
these algorithms have gotten so out of control you used to be able to actually reach your followers
of friends on facebook now you're only reaching about five percent of your own followers organically
and their because their algorithms are deciding to show you what they want you to see it's not a
pure chronological feat so on minds everything is 100 chronological and raw we're never going
to interfere with that and additionally you earn tokens for your contributions to the network
every day so whoever creates the most engaging content gets tokens and then you can use those
tokens to boost your post for more views so not only are we not filtering we're giving people more
of a voice because that's actually what the purpose of social media supposed to be is to share your
voice it's a concept that they seem to have forgotten about isn't it now i read your interview
with the daily caller you talked about healthy society hinging on the free exchange of ideas
tell us about darryl davis and how his story speaks to what's happening now with big tech censorship
yeah darryl davis is an incredible story of an african-american man who befriended hundreds of
members of the kkk and through open dialogue got them all to hand over their ropes because they
saw the humanity in each other and understood that obviously doesn't make sense to be a part of the
kkk and this is how communication and social evolution works is that through open discourse
the best ideas will rise to the top look we're all getting things wrong sometimes but through
education and clear debate the best ideas are going to win exactly again as he said twitter
started started as the free speech wing of the free speech party quite ironic now that twitter is
the last remaining holdout i mean we have heard whispers behind the scenes that jack dorsi at least
to some extent does support free speech that he has had meetings with people we had the announcement
yesterday twitter is reaching out to conservatives on a charm offensive to try and get them on board
and to try and reassure their concern whether anything comes of that given that there are
literally giant mobs of outrage permanently offended idiots on their campaigning every day to
shut us down remains to be seen but here in the pet in the last couple of minutes bill just tell us
how easy it is to sign up for minds dot com and why people should do so right now yeah just varies
and sign up like other social networks the key thing that i would have you take away is that
where we spend our time online is how the power structure of the internet is distributed so when
you even just create an account on an open source peer-to-peer alternative like minds you are helping
empower us and other alternatives to grow where we sit the browsers that we use you know use the
brave browser use firefox don't use proprietary surveillance systems it is possible to shift
away and you know we're sitting on these devices all day and that is building the metrics of all
these different corporations so you know finally the alternatives are catching up in terms of the
functionality and i would just say at the minimum supplement your experience if you're not ready to
fully jump ship you know just get started exactly now i'll start doing that right now with this
interview because it ain't going up on youtube forget about that if you want to watch this
interview it will go up on minds dot com and it will go up on bitch you and we'll promote that
if we get access to our website back it will obviously go up on info wars dot com as well
but we're going to leave it there for now bill ockman minds dot com thanks for joining us today
thanks bill there goes bill ockman please go and sign up at minds dot com today i'm there i've got
about 80 000 followers at this point you know you're not going to get banned there for exercising
free speech the only reason you get banned is for endorsing advocating legal activity and obviously
twitter facebook and the rest of them have terms of service which are slightly more restricted than
that minds dot com aligns itself with the first amendment so you know you're not going to get
banned and it's growing rapidly it's not really a right wing echo chamber as some people claim
these other websites are as people from actual real liberals who support free speech conservatives
and whoever having an actual conversation god forbid without being censored so please go and sign up
for minds dot com fight back against big tech censorship also support info wars dot com by
going to info wars store dot com and getting the specials right now to help us against this what
is now a purge what is now basically a cyber attack on our website to the point where cnn has
published an article as i just mentioned bearing in mind that cnn was the network that launched this
purge they launched this lobbying campaign back in february of that of this year their first target
was the alex germans channel they tried to create a controversy over the parkland shootings to get
that shut down with community guidelines strikes then they lobbied facebook to shut us down after
facebook shut us down they lobbied twitter to shut us down they haven't been successful with twitter
yet but they were the genesis of this campaign to purge info wars from the internet now they've
published an article which literally accuses and says info wars is quote these these these the words
of rafia zakaria a cnn contributor she says info wars is complicit in domestic terror okay this is
going to have some interesting repercussions but we'll leave that article there for now there you
see it info wars is complicit in domestic terror they were right to banners because apparently
we're like isis we're like al-qaeda we encourage terror attacks we've never encouraged any violence
whatsoever we assume we did about all violence and anyone who endorses it or suggests it it's
complete bs this is why cnn is fake news let's see another couple of headlines here in a final
minute of the show sweden is burning migrant gangs and leach coordinated firebomb rampage across
multiple cities so the swedish national election is next month in just a few weeks time the sweden
democrats which is the anti mass migration party the populist party the anti-globalist party is
according to the recent polls five points ahead i'm guessing when they've run those polls again
tomorrow or in a couple of days time they're even going to be even further ahead because they're the
only party that has promised to take steps to take measures to do something about sweden's
soaring violent crime problem and its complete lack of integration of migrants that have come
predominantly from the middle east over the past few years so they had numerous cars set on fire
of course this is a regular occurrence occurrence in sweden but they're saying it's never been this
coordinated and it's never been this intense now the police are saying they want to talk to the
parents of the guilty minors sounds like they're really gonna do a lot to prevent that from happening
in future isn't it but sweden's got an election the party that's promised to deal with this is
ahead in the polls this is gonna backfire on them trump was right he said his big last night in
sweden speech he was ridiculed but he was proven right once again that's it for the show warring
with our insurer is coming up info wars the scientists at info wars life have created a
powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine
with bodies bodies contains one of the most potent forms of tumeric available tumeric has been used
for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional
medicine for its soothing properties our pure tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper
makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function
immune system and so much more regular tumeric root from the store only contains one to five
percent of active ingredients but our tumeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active
ingredients bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and time
to work synergistically for full body support try bodies today at info wars life dot com
or call us at 188-253-3139 do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars dot
com when you spread the videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary
and the globalist it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying
that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the
world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word
you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever
that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way
the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name
and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter we are the renaissance
and we are winning you're listening to the alex jones show
