you emotional incontinence you had urinary incontinence no I said emotional
incontinence sorry as Western civilization collapses which it is so
does our ability to deal with minor day-to-day struggles without breaking
down and wallowing in a pitiful puddle of our own self-indulgent fragility we're
indoctrinated with emotional incontinence by television America has been
collectively turned into Kim Kardashian's cry face I've just been like so
unhappy you don't think I feel bad the masses overdose on reality TV thinking
that it's actually reality and then mimic it in their own lives the more
insipid sentimentality displayed on TV the more it manifests itself in the
here and now vacuous people live their lives vicariously through celebrities
and television then base their own personalities on that reality TV doesn't
reflect reality it contrives reality it relentlessly broadcasts the message the
ostentatious OTT often dumb displays of emotion are to be imitated people
breaking down and sobbing because Gordon Ramsay had his team renovate their
restaurant a stunning fresh coat of paint we've updated the upholstery new
plates no you're not supposed to cry over a paint job and some new furniture
the same is true of YouTube youtubers are rewarded for emotional incontinence
and oversharing the try not to cry challenge constantly trying a whining
about their drama and their breakups the viewers lap it up like water in the
desert then ape their behavior always everyone cries as a baby last year
Twitter users revealed what made them cry the answers included people who
cried at not being able to fit all the things they wanted to in their bag
getting the wrong source with chicken McNuggets and crying at a picture of a
man because he looked like he was nice the floodgates of emotional incontinence
they're also flung open whenever a celebrity dies why do people whimper
and sob over dead celebrities they never knew and in many cases rarely even
thought about until they died does this betray another form of weakness our
inability to process the concept of death itself or mass public outpourings of
grief and canonization of dead celebrities a sign that humanity has
never been more afraid of its own mortality a sign that excessive emoting
is making us both more insecure and more insincere as Theodore Dalrymple wrote
we live in an age of emotional incontinence when they who emote the
most are believed to feel the most as we become increasingly atomized by the
breakdown of the family structure and its replacement by this empty late-stage
capitalist corporate monoculture authentic expressions of private love
have been replaced by spurious public displays of counterfeit emotion why are
we constantly told that there's a stigma around depression that there's a
stigma around expressing emotion there isn't the opposite is true it's
constantly drilled into us that depression is normal and the emotional
incontinence and oversharing is to be encouraged you can barely go the age the
age ladies and gentlemen of psychological incontinence is up on info wars
calm the full video from Paul Watson we'll be back with the most censored
broadcast in the Western Hemisphere we knew it was coming the whole thing was
for me like first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us
to add credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia and then wallah
two weeks later ban info wars completely off of the dozens of major
platforms where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds go to info
wars.com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's
also critical to go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter and give us
your email so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and
articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars.com
forward slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how
they can then reach out to others with the information point out this is the
remote and info this is what they don't want you to see
it's Friday August 17th 2018 there's only 81 days left until most important
elections in the US history we are the tip of the spear attempting to alert the
American people in the world to the threat of globalism and the all-out
assault on Western civilization and America whatever you do realize the
globalists have made a miscalculation and are committed to shut down this
transmission with every form of assault you can imagine because they believe
you're stupid and won't notice what's happening that they can bring in their
draconian Chinese communist style censorship and America but we are here
exposing it they are scared of this information because it is the answer to
their corruption again thank you so much for joining us on this Friday global
broadcast let me tell you what's coming up today and then I'll get into all of it
the left as I've told you for 20 plus years is brainwashed to hate America and
is trained by the high schools the colleges the mainline churches the
culture that America is the ultimate evil in the world because the globalist
want a one-world planetary government that controls America and other Western
nations to enforce their planetary plan of absolute and complete domination now
that's known now they tried to deny that any of that existed for decade after
decade after decade while they built their world government but once they
had to emerge the world government once they had to take it out of the shipyards
and actually put it into the ocean the world can now see the dreadnought the
corrupt battleship of tyranny the the aircraft carrier of lies that is the
one-world government planetary program so all over the world it's in big trouble
because it's authoritarian it's above the law it is tax exempt it is
diplomatically immune it is totally maniacal and anti-human and as the
public begins to learn about that and learn that it's anti-prosperity and
anti-human there's going to be a giant resistance that forms they have decided
to take me building up as this monster and then use me as the first domino to
fall to eradicate free speech in the West that is all confirmed now law firms
in DC have gone and looked at the statements by Democrats in Congress
their own secret reports that have concurred that by next year they plan to
basically end the First Amendment in America it's our job to raise the alarm
bell that either doing that and that be it's got to be stopped so the first thing
I'm going to cover when we come back in the next segment it'll be the second
thing I cover I'm about to cover one big topic now that ties into this is the
fact that the Republicans don't understand what's happening they've been
manipulated I'm not calling for government regulation of the Internet I'm
not calling for regulation of these corporations but it's already happened
by fiat via the EU and its fines and regulations via these companies wanting
to move to China they're going under China's regulatory auspices and they're
unifying without asking anybody an unofficial global corporate charter of
censorship and control and then the Republicans sit back like a bunch of
fools and go well we're not going to get involved in what companies do they're
private companies you can't operate as a utility and then have rules that you
only selectively enforce on nationalist capitalist middle-class patriots
pro-military pro-second amendment people and we all know that's what's going on
so this is false advertising it's racketeering it's monopoly practices
when you have the top six companies all in the same day ban info wars and then
20 other companies plus follow suit that is called a monopoly combine the very
worst monopoly system where a group of monopolies work in concert it's called
a car kill and so we're going to get the message out and we've been put this
message out of the White House to Congress and it's one big reason we've
been banned but I'm willing to do it I'm not going to play along with the
systems I'm not me there it is Apple banned Alex Jones and then the Domino's
started to fall I didn't even know they actually written an article using that
term but that's exactly what I've been calling it it's the domino effect and
then they go oh hip hip hooray take Alex Jones down a lot of conservatives go
well they've built a strong man about him they've demonized him I'm not going
to really defend him and then you're next and of course it's now it's now
happen so this is extremely draconian these big companies together represent
over 90% of the internet and so now they're saying we're not going to even
let people advertise on our platforms regular people even have bank accounts
jihad watch has had their mastercard taken away they had for 20 years now
mastercard says you can't bank you can't live oh it's just a private company
they are organizing like a tyranny's always do to link up it's the linking up
of companies in a cartel to persecute groups that is totally illegal that is
the most dangerous expression of communism and fascism and authoritarianism it
is the it is the tail-tale sign censorship cartels linking together
trying to kick you out of the market it is exactly what Adolf Hitler did it's
exactly what the island and did it's exactly what Mao Zedong did it's
exactly what Hugo Chavez did it's exactly what Fidel Castro did it's
exactly what these regimes do 100% it's what Mussolini did I need to a
Mussolini it is the blood the guts the bone the brain the skin the hair the
arms the everything of of tyranny it's it we know what it looks like we know
what it acts like we know it behaves we know what it is
so see I've already kind of gotten into my whole argument that we must stop this
now by Congress not having any control over the internet they have removed net
neutrality now again Obama called it net neutrality but what that was was
bringing in regulations so these companies could censor whoever they
wanted to have liability protection the Republican said we're reversing that but
then they didn't put anything in its place so then it became even more of a
free-for-all but again it's global America's only 325 million people China's
a billion and a half India's a billion 100 million the EU is 350 something
million there's all these other places and the EU is coming in with billion
dollar fines every few weeks against these companies to go under their
regulations they're not gonna just create all these different regulations for
different countries and regions there they're adopting the EU and Chinese
model they're building the Chinese censorship engines and they're building
them here and they're just unifying it so by Congress leaving this vacuum open
and and by all of us sitting here like fools going word open society these are
private companies they can do what they want the Democrats are now all over the
news banning all Republicans even talking about their campaigns or putting
their campaign ads up on their Facebook or Twitter or YouTube but the Democrats
can operate all they want anti-fiction say we're gonna put bullets in Congress's
heads and kill Trump and kill his family and kill talk show hosts and I go well
folks you better have your battle rifles ready by your bed because they may
actually attack your houses it's already been happening that turns into I said
battle rifles for the media and they don't show it do they because they've
gone next level fraud folks this shows they're going for broke so there is a
vacuum there is a system of Congress asleep at the switch drooling and the
Googles and and Facebooks and apples of the world patting them on the back like
their complete morons while they adopt the EU and Chinese model and merge the
censorship systems in standardization and now they're saying hell if we win the
house we're gonna go ahead with full internet takeover and total censorship
that's been out for weeks and Senator Warner on Monday released more documents
calling for it I've got one of the top first-minute law firms in the country
and they looked at it and they could not believe it this is true tyranny but are
are you thinking they're not gonna just fill that vacuum whenever Governor
Cuomo said America was never great America is a piece of crap and CNN
agreed with him that's coming up they're telling you the truth they are such in
their echo chambers that they literally hate America the majority of
Millennials want communism but they've got $1,000 phones and $200 skinny
jeans these people mean business and they're making their move right now and
they're shutting us down because we're ringing the alarm bells because we're
faithful Americans we're faithful the Republic we're faithful to the free
market we're faithful to prosperity and what we know is a steady strong course
that made us the apple of the world's eye we know we have been exceptional when
we exercise the principles that made us great we know we are the light on the
hill to the world we know the enemies are trying to pull that down stay with
us we are the info war let's talk tough let's talk comfort let's talk about
down home value made in the USA blue jeans like you were as a kid remember
there's a place down to Tennessee where they make blue diamond gusset jeans they
so pride in every stitch guarantee you the way they fit and put a diamond
gusset in the crotch where you need most blue diamond gussets got it others
don't we're good old-fashioned comfort get diamond gusset jeans every stitch
guaranteed and our Defender motorcycle gene comes Kevlar reinforced see him at
gusse t.com that's gusset.com or call 888-848-7738 that's 888-848-7738
diamond gusset jeans got it others don't healthcare reform is confusing but
whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your doctor or
being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has
become a challenge control your own health care costs and choices with liberty
health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of
self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of
each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going
to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org it's a no-brainer a big
Berkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that
removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals BPA and other endocrine
disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at
only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity
water filtration big Berkey and now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic
filter systems using code GCN call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com
that's 1-877-99 BERKEY
info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
introducing pollen block we have found an extraordinary new natural way to
alleviate seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and
sinus passageways eye comfort and respiratory function in the 1960s
researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs
experience less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses they began
studying this effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit
of this research a fast-acting chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal
distress symptoms pollen block is natural and effective it is not an
antihistamine in fact current research has found that it actually acts by
blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and
inflammatory responses in the body go outside and enjoy the air you breathe
head to info wars life comm and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable
tablets the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on
the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're
bringing you a brand-new version of one of the newest fan favorite products the
real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse
pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included
a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill has quickly become one of our
fellow info wars favorite products now with an extra proprietary energy blend
inside including green tea extract your monta leaf extract and more you can get
that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way it's
got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com you're listening to the
music
You are watching the most censored, most attacked, most underseaged, most demonized broadcast
in the Western Hemisphere.
Much of the East is already behind an iron curtain of the Chinese Great Firewall.
In Politico, we can put that article up on screen, came out and said, welcome to the
age of worldwide digital censorship online with China and the EU directing it.
And Congress sits there sucking their thumb saying, we're not going to regulate these
private companies, meaning they leave a vacuum and those companies are now under EU and Chai
Com control and are officially moving to China and censoring everything here.
And spying on everywhere you go and what you do, Google is more of a threat to our freedoms
than the NSA could ever imagine.
Apple has the worst slave factories.
Apple pays the least taxes.
Apple is a venomous, hateful group, but they camouflage themselves with gay pride parades
and Black Lives Matter fundraisers, absolutely wicked beyond imagination, but not a word
from Tim Cook about China executing gays.
But now they've come out of the closet, the America haters.
If you go to the universities or you've been brought up in the last 30, 40, 50 years in
this country, most schools, most government institutions teach America hating, Christian
hating, capitalism hating, they give you a false history.
You don't learn about the Trojan War.
You don't learn about ancient China or you don't learn about the Revolutionary War.
You learn about America being racist.
You learn about America being sexist.
But it's been a big wake up call when Governor Cuomo, who told Christians and conservatives
and gun owners get out of the state, people said, you're joking to your, he goes, no,
get the H out, he said.
Remember that?
And then CNN and others came out to his defense, even though he backed off of it.
He's speaking to fellow Democrats about America's never been great.
America's bad.
America's mean to women.
You need to have chips on your shoulders and then come under my pimp's control.
I'll pimp you out good.
So that kind of blew up in his face.
So he said, oh, I didn't mean it.
It's out of context.
And then CNN and others go, no, no, no, America is bad.
Well, that's what they're already teaching because they want to conquer the idea of free
market.
They want to make everybody think that America isn't theirs, that they couldn't be wealthy
or successful or free or make their own choices or that the potential of the American system
is the most powerful potential the world's ever seen and that we have been exceptional
because of our ideals of rugged individualism.
But they're fundamentally threatened with that.
And as Trump said, he can't imagine what a worse statement is from Cuomo, that America's
never really been that great or that it will never be that great.
He asked the question in the tweet.
He doesn't know which one of the statements is worse.
So let's go ahead and play, everybody's been seeing for the last two days, but then we'll
play CNN and others defending it.
Here it is.
We're not going to make America great again.
It was never that great.
We have not reached greatness.
We will reach greatness when every American is fully engaged.
We will reach greatness when discrimination and stereotyping against women, 51 percent
of our population is gone.
I think points like yours that are focusing only on the negative and not even acknowledging
700,000 new jobs for black people in this country, record low unemployment and the rest
of it.
It's tantamount to what Andrew Cuomo said today that upset me, too, that America has
never been great.
Let's focus on what we've done well and let's focus on what America is doing well and how
about we look at what we can do rather than to call each other names and cut each other
down and be divisive.
I don't think this is, I think America is tired of the division.
Starts at the top, Gina.
Guess what?
As soon as your president stops calling people names, maybe you'll set a better example for
everyone else.
You know what they're doing, right?
It's called demoralization.
What's Trump trying to do?
Get our morale up.
We are literally being demoralized.
When an enemy government comes in and captured a nation, the first thing they do is demoralize
the population and tell them the worst parts of their history and harp on it and then get
collaborators to come and join and say, yeah, I hate the country.
I'll go out and work against it and help you take it over.
That's what they do in red dawn at the reeducation camp that is a fictional camp, but based on
what real Soviet camps would do to countries they'd taken over.
So let's put one of Trump's many tweets about Como on screen.
I'm going to read this and there's never been true words spoken.
Here it is.
How does a politician, Como, know, known for pushing people and businesses out of his state?
Not to mention having the highest taxes in the US survive making the statement, we're
not going to make America great again.
It was never that great.
Which section of the sentence is worse?
It's really hard.
Well, I think the worst part is this.
You could say America wasn't great if you had a chip on your shoulder and a twisted
view.
I didn't understand the real complexities.
You could say if you were ignorant that America was never great.
I don't agree with that.
It's obviously stupid and doesn't know history.
You measure America up.
All the foreign historians, Japanese, French, German, Russian, Mexican, Chilean, they all
said just incredible.
Great background, the buildings, the construction, the invention.
Nobody could build a Panama Canal.
Two countries failed.
We built it.
Then gave it to the chai comms.
We go in, fight countries, turn them back over to them.
Nobody else does that.
But you can sit there and argue, okay, we were never great if you're ignorant.
But to say and will never be great is saying you are a piece of crap.
You are my slave.
I am over you.
We suck.
Stay demoralized.
Stay on assistance.
Never get off welfare.
I control you.
Keep down.
You're a nobody.
Super negative crap that is the poison of these people.
You get around Democrats.
You go to their events.
They're all like this.
They're either desperate, scared, poor people that a bunch of rich elitists look down on.
I was telling my wife that Democrats in Congress historically have about 80% of the wealth.
Democrats in Congress, they have most of the wealth.
They're the rich people.
She goes, really?
I thought they're the party of poor people.
And I go, no.
They're the party of keeping you poor.
Almost every billionaire is a Democrat.
All of them.
Carlos Slim, the Mexican kingpin, made $5 billion off U.S. taxpayers for Obama phones.
It's all a big kickback scheme.
It's all a big scam.
They are trying to suppress you and tell you you're ugly and you're a piece of crap
and make you fight with each other.
It's in the WikiLeaks that they want to demoralize us and have race conflict.
They're monsters.
They're scum.
They're filth.
My God.
They're the enemy.
They are the enemy and they're planning false slags against themselves to be the victim.
They're monster criminals.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos
on the market at Slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just $17.98.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of Slingbow, a new frontier
in archery, and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill, only at Slingbow.com.
Who has the only raw living whole plant hemp CBD extract in the world?
MetaHemp Solutions, a radically innovative approach to hemp CBDs for exceptional results.
Why?
Because they contain absolutely all the elements present in the original plant.
All our hemp CBD products are independently lab tested for potency and purity and manufactured
in our FDA registered facility.
Try it today.
10% off with coupon code GCM10, call 833-858-7500.
That's 833-858-7500, or buy MetaHemp Solutions today at MBTAHempSolutions.com.
That's MetaHempSolutions.com.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from M4Wars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world, it's you that has defeated Hillary and the Globlest.
It is you, the M4Wars, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against
the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the M4Wars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to M4Wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the M4Wars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at M4Wars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
M4Wars Life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well
as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products.
You can get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high
quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it
right.
Combine floral life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Floral life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
Being paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try floral life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Okay folks, I've got to get to the news today because I didn't get to a lot of it the last
few days because we've been under such attack and that's been one of the top stories in
the country for two weeks that we're under massive censorship attack and that is draconian
and that it's been for everybody.
But I need to get into massive asset attacks in the UK, massive rape attacks all over
Sweden and Europe, thousands of cars being burned, people being stabbed, murdered.
This is all Islamic jihad but the media is covering it up and there are resting people
that point out that it's al-Qaeda related and ISIS related.
They are now taking people off their credit card companies here in the US if they are
pro-Israel or speak out against jihad.
Whether you're for Israel or not, people have a right to be pro-Israel, right, like jihad
watch.
This is really, really dangerous and I told everybody that I was only the first domino.
Even Politico has the headline that just came out yesterday, I hadn't seen this, welcome
to the new era of digital censorship, it's dangerous to ask tech companies to decide
what's legitimate free speech.
And they admit and now others are admitting and I know some big names are about to become
public in defense of infor wars very strongly because folks understand what's happening.
And I'm going to explain it one more time, I'm going to do it the next segment because
I want to lay all this out.
The EU has fined tens of billions of dollars against US based tech giants.
To get out of that, they're just moving to China where the EU never even tries to enforce
stuff because the Chinese ignore it.
So by creating that vacuum, Congress has allowed China and has allowed the EU particularly
to take control of our internet, we're now going under their policies.
And I'm going to continue to lay it out in reports here on air but it's in the news.
So Congress must act under national security issues to have an internet bill of rights
and to say we're going to follow our own rules here and these companies that have operated
like utilities and have said that they are monopolies and have said that they are the
open digital soap box and the Democrats admit, take Jones out of the digital soap box, take
him out of the town square, silence him.
And have said it, senators have said it, that are quarterbacking it, do you understand that?
We have the reports, it's all admitted, you guys pull me up, I had all the articles with
the Congress and senators saying, don't just silence Jones, silence everyone.
And then the Republicans go, we're free market companies, you do whatever they want.
These are things bigger than the country combined.
You had Apple and Google and Twitter and Facebook and another 20-something companies together,
you're talking about a GDP close to the country, you're talking about the infrastructure
of how people communicate.
I understand the average Congressperson is like 70 and still uses landlines and stuff
but baby, that ain't how we're talking.
Well, you have a right to use a telegraph if you want Jones, really, they're trying
to get Akamai that we've used for five, six years and paid millions of dollars.
They've had a mutiny inside Akamai telling them, don't let us buy services to stream
our own video.
They're trying to take down our credit card providers, already took one down.
We're under racketeering criminal assault.
Now I want to make an addendum, just a little point here, I want to add this on to what
I said earlier in the last segment, if you just joined us, I want to add this point in.
The Democrats are suddenly coming out all over TV, not just Colombo but on CNN, MSNB,
CNBC and saying we hate America and America was never great and it will never be great
because their psychology is keeping you desperate and basically at a subsistence level so that
you're never independent.
They want to arrest your development, they want to keep you under their control, they
want to keep you depressed, CNN, MSNBC, NPR, I was talking to the cruder in the break with
a lot of Democrat friends, they go, yeah, they're all depressed, they think America
sucks, they think they suck, believe me, Colmo doesn't think it sucks, he's ruling
over you, Hillary doesn't think it's bad, think about how bizarre that statement is
and America will never be great, it's never been that great and it'll never be great because
they want you as their slaves, they don't want to compete in a real renaissance because
control freaks like them in communist China or the Democratic Party or in Venezuela or
any of these places get left behind.
Like the EU, it's got unelected bureaucrats that set it up that sit over it, they're exempt
from taxes and cannot be removed, it's a Politburo and they want to make people depressed,
they want to break down the general society, everywhere Democrats and globalists and socialists
are in control, you have ultra rich people ruling over the population and rivers of
crap all over the streets, it's what their spirit creates, it's what they push, it's
what they do, they're trying to demoralize us like a foreign army that has captured
us would do, that's the facts.
Now, coming up, I'm going to get into their master plan for total censorship and how it
can be stopped and how we approach Congress with this that they absolutely must act once
they get their heads out of their rear ends because they've been mantraed in by the Heritage
Foundation and all these groups that it's free market to let China have 100% tariffs
on us and we have none on them or it's free market to have Canada with a 280% tariff on
all dairy, milk, cheese, yogurt, everything, tens of billions of dollars a year and then
we have none on them.
That's why we've got Canadian dairy all over the US and there's no US dairy in Canada because
it is a 100% wall of 280% tariff, you cannot ever compete with that.
Is that free market?
No, that's the opposite of free market and it's the same thing with the Internet.
They don't get involved saying we're going to have a level playing field, they open
up a giant vacuum and Big Tech's spending a lot of money up on Capitol Hill to keep
people dumb like Matt Gaetz and others and they need to get smart right now because they
know what's going on but they stay tone deaf to it because they think, well, Big Tech's
going to put money in my real estate campaign but I just don't get on their ass.
You'll never get reelected any of you if you don't do something about this now.
Now I've sacrificed to be blacklisted everywhere to tell the truth and save the country and
that's what I should do and it's what you should do, man up and start acting like men.
Now that said, if you notice you go to infowars.com now, we'll take three or four of the top most
important videos of the day that are emergency transmissions and we post them there.
I want you to download them, I want you to stream them, I want you to put them on your
own site, I want you to edit them, do whatever you want, just magnify them and amplify them
and get them out and that's what people are doing all over the country and all over the
world.
It might be going into an Apple store and putting infowars.com on every screen or doing
it at your computer class at college or doing it at the airport.
There's a video on infowars.com of a lady doing that.
It's all happening or legally and lawfully posting handbills up that infowars.com is
verboten and it will backfire with the Streisand effect if you do that and it's begun to happen
so I want to salute you, I want to thank you, I want to encourage you and I want to ask
everybody to continue it.
The front page of infowars.com every day, many times we'll have a special splash page
with what I believe is the most critical information and then you can go to all the sites and link
to the shopping cart, you name it, but listen, they took $3 million of our funding for the
next year, they took away Cridio that approached us when we got kicked off Adroll a year and
a half ago.
That is crippling and devastating.
We need to make that money up.
They're hitting me with all these lawsuits.
We can defeat it and we're going to hold out but we need you to seriously commit and understand.
I told you we're under attack, you're under attack.
When you fund us, you are funding yourself and do you want to see them win?
I know you don't.
So go to infowars.com and get supplements you need, get books and videos and forbidden
information t-shirt or latest shirt with our infowars.com at the top and then an image
of myself with a table in my mouth saying is forbidden information.
White t-shirt and black, very, very powerful message.
It's happening.
It's going down.
It's here and it's up to you to strike back against it peacefully and lawfully because
this is the greatest time in our lives, in our history, they're trying to take down America
right now and if we don't win this election coming up, it's going to be an even crazier
fight so we need to understand the next month and a half, the next two months is so incredibly
critical only what 81 days, ladies and gentlemen, 81 days.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize info wars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility
to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and Islamophobia and then wallah.
Two weeks later, ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we
were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds.
Go to info wars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to info wars.com, forward slash newsletter and give us your
email so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our
own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about info wars.com, forward slash show, how they can
download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with
the information and point out, this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an
info wars life.
It take hours.
Michael ZX plus and now as a lower price, it's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics and knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida
it's back in stock, the real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones of your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine four
to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver and a lot more without you.
We couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the second American revolution.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info
war so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
The scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Over the power of ancient medicine with bodies, bodies contains one of the most potent forms
of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Our turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric
root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Buy bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, I'm Alex Jones, your host.
First Chinese and EU's of the world, not just around the world but in the United States,
Congress's inaction has created a huge vacuum that has green-lighted Google, Apple and many
companies that originated and now build censorship engines to have the code keys to the I cloud
That's access to all of your private information
in the hands of the Chinese government.
Meanwhile, the EU is bringing in regulatory control.
The name of people's privacy has nothing to do with it.
With giant fines against Google and others,
and Facebook and the billions of dollars
to make them regulatory comply with EU rules
that censor speech, and Facebook and others
have hired former senior Stasi members,
can't make this up to help report people
that criticize radical Islam or who are nationalists
so they can be arrested and or fined.
So I'm reaching out to congressman Matt Gaetz
and congressman Jim Jordan and many others
who seem to be intelligent and pro-American,
but on this subject have not really said enough
because they're spinning it like,
well, these are private companies.
No, they've said they operate as public squares.
They operate as utilities.
The left is saying silence conservatives
from the public square.
They admit that I am the first domino.
I'll show you some news articles,
mainstream news here in a minute.
It's not Stalix Jones saying it.
And I'm being silenced
because I've been beating the drum for this.
What should Congress do?
Well, you should hold hearings on the subject.
And you should look at how many members of Congress
themselves have been completely shadow banned
or have been governed curtailed down over 90%.
And that Breitbart studies show
conservative sites on Facebook,
Google and Apple platforms like Breitbart
and the Daily Caller and others
have been cut back 93% from 80%
just a few months ago on their reach.
They're not letting people communicate.
They're not letting users on Facebook
go to the Breitbart website or the Info Wars website
and share it.
They're getting in front of them preemptively.
These companies engage in false advertising.
They advertise as the public square
as long as you've played by their rules.
But their rules are all subjectively put into place
by SJW leftist that have been hired
to run and captain these systems.
So again, Congress and the president's inaction
and we the people's inaction
has created a vacuum and a perfect storm.
We're dying dinosaur media,
the scared democratic party
that the public's realigning against
and foreign governments have now colluded
to bring in total internet control.
I know Congress is aware that Senator Warner
has circulated plans to have the Democrats
take over the web if they win the midterms.
I'm sure you've seen Senator Murphy say that quote,
I'm the tip of an iceberg of conservative news
that needs to be banned.
I'm sure you know all this is going on.
I'm sure you know that Google's moving to China
and setting up a censorship search engine there
and that their own executives have leaked
in mainstream news here,
but it got no attention
that they're helping set up censorship engines here
because they're gonna unify it with China.
China is now the giant sucking sound.
And because we won't stand up for true net neutrality
and because we won't stand up
for a true internet bill of rights,
we're no longer the leader in the world
by advocating our responsibility by stepping down
and letting China and the EU and the big banks
and corrupt Silicon Valley trained by the big universities,
the big America hating groups
to want to silence flyover country.
This is devastating information.
Here's some of the articles just to do it.
Twitter purges accounts across the platform again.
Anyone that had ever had any strikes
or ever had any problems,
well now you're being completely banned.
Social media platform Twitter has begun banning
a large number of accounts
from the website specifically focusing on accounts
that have previously been banned
or have received suspensions.
And they're going after everybody
from Gavin McGinnis to Laura Loomer.
And then continuing here, here's another one, Politico.
Welcome to the new era of global digital censorship.
It's dangerous to ask tech companies to decide
what's legitimate free speech.
Well, they don't, the Democratic Party,
the Southern Prairie Law Center, the ADL, Snopes,
Media Matters run by George Soros,
they all have created databases.
They have now been brought into the fact checkers
to flag information.
And then you know the famous disinfo
that they're constantly getting caught involved in.
If the sky is blue, they say it's red.
So I'm asking Congress, I'm asking the public,
I'm asking everyone to take this information
and to investigate it yourself and to do something
because the First Amendment is so critical.
And I want to add this right now, we're live on Friday.
But we're going to take the video report here.
We're going to post it at the front page of infowars.com
along with other key reports that all of you
can go get the link to.
We're going to post them as articles on infowars.com.
And we need you to send these video reports to Congress.
We need you to go to the congressman's
Facebooks, their Twitters, everywhere
and communicate with them.
They're trying to censor us, but they can't stop you
going around them directly to them digitally
or directly to the Capitol
or directly to their home offices.
Go in, sit down with their chief of staff.
Go sit down with their people and show them this.
And whoever does this will be the champion
of the First Amendment and will get incredible support
from the left and right, the left at the grassroots level
who aren't complete tyrants are upset about this.
Noam Chomsky's upset about this.
This is dangerous, folks.
This is serious.
Again, Apple, Band Alex Jones, infowars.
Then the dominoes started to fall.
Vox calls for everything I do to be banned.
And then now they brag, get rid of all the conservatives.
And I've got articles in my stack today
where congressional candidates across the country
aren't even allowed to communicate on Facebook
or Twitter with their users.
They can't put out their campaign ads.
Those are blocked.
They can't even pay to have them run,
but Democrats can all run their ads.
Now that is a donation in kind.
Imagine if ABC, National News,
you tried to buy a political ad with them
and they said no, but then they took their competitors ad.
Imagine if a local CBS affiliate,
you tried to go buy a bunch of ads
for your run for governor say in Massachusetts.
And they say, we're not letting you
because you're a Republican,
but we're gonna let the Democrat run.
Come on, folks, this is racketeering.
This is unfair trade practices.
This is criminal.
This is corrupt.
This is out of control.
And these ads that are being run,
one we're showing right now are Asian Americans
and others showing their families
and how they love America and how they're winners
and how they're not victims.
And the Democrats are saying,
you're not going to run those ads
because you're telling America
that they're not demoralized.
You're telling America they're winners.
You're telling America that you're doing a great job.
And the ad we're showing right now for TV viewers,
radio listeners is on infowars.com.
It's been banned.
Good, wholesome ads of Congress women from Tennessee
talking about how they love America,
how they love their family
and good conservative candidates
or from places like New York,
banned from even advertising,
banned from the marketplace.
Oh, but they're private companies.
They can do what they want.
So the newspaper wouldn't take your money to run an ad.
That wouldn't be unfair to red practices.
That wouldn't be discrimination.
That wouldn't be a scandal.
That wouldn't be something you talk about.
Congress is asleep at the switch.
And this is the big issue.
The president has tried.
He's spoken some about how shadow banning is illegal.
Twitter's just playing games with me right now
to act like I violated their rules
so they can go on the news
and misrepresent what I've said and not show it.
Jack Gorsy, you know, Jones says
he wants to kill the media with guns.
I know it's terrible, but I suspended him for it.
So when they do finally ban me, it looks legitimate.
I never said they're anybody with guns.
It's a lie.
I said, Antifa says they're coming to your house
to kill Congress members in law enforcement.
Have your firearms ready to protect yourself.
That's a second amendment.
But it's everything's like a big university now.
A big brainwashing center.
Congress should take action on the universities
being anti-free speech.
These bullies, these mobs of betas are out of control.
You know, in the land of the beta male,
these mobs of little cowards are kings.
In the land of the beta male, censorship is numero uno.
In the land of the beta male, Brian Stelter is God.
But in the land of rebels, in the land of freedom,
the land of success, the land of alpha males,
Info Wars is number one.
We are proud to be rebels.
We're proud to be hunted.
We're proud to be attacked.
I'm honored to be in the crosshairs.
I swore before God that I would stand against the globalists
and as long as God gives me strength
and will air in my lungs and my big red heart full of light,
I'll march on forward, stumbling sometimes
always with grim determination, climbing the hill,
always getting stronger even as I get weaker,
even as I prepare to go into our final launch phase.
The enemy is sharpening their knives.
I enter the arena with love in my heart and lighten my eyes.
Please support us, we'll be right back.
Patrick, in the great nation of Australia,
you're on the air worldwide.
Thanks for holding.
Hey, Alex, mate.
I've been following you since I was 14
and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Info Wars and Prison Planet,
it was just blue text on a white screen
and I had to load down the page on my dial-up internet
and I thought it was pretty cool
and read all the books and seen all the DVDs
and followed all your guests
and I've been using your products
since the first iteration of Survival Shield
and since then I'm on the X2,
the SuperMail Vitality Decay Man,
the Real Red Pill, micro-ZX body.
It's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much,
it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit
and it's just the more you know God,
the more you fear God, but the more you chase God
and I wanted to say that it's an honor
to stand side by side with you, the crew
and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
Do you realize that when you spread the links
from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet
that stood against the bullying,
that stood against the peer pressure,
that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world
and that's why you've been on the team,
supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWard
and now because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way
the censors can get between us with critical videos,
articles, breaking news, Intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever
to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The year is 1995
and InfoWars launches the last
of America's counter-globalist probes.
In a freak mishap, InfoWars.com and Alex Jones
are blown out of their trajectory into an orbit
which freezes his life support systems
and returns Alex Jones to Earth 25 years later.
Transdimensionally, over the space time continuum
through full space.
Where people are extremely lazy,
the social engineers are there laughing.
What we envisioned 100 years ago, 20 years ago
is now real.
While the society unravels, men run around totally frantic,
not knowing how to be men and women run around frantic,
not knowing how to be women.
And they don't understand that it's an animating
contest of life and that it's fulfilling to be informed.
It's fulfilling to be involved.
It's fulfilling InfoWars, tomorrow's news today.
All right, let me take some time out here
to just explain something to listeners
who've been listening a long time.
I tend to repeat a lot of things
even though I have hundreds of riveting videos
and articles that are all incredibly important.
And if I was just trying to entertain people,
I could make the show a lot more entertaining.
In fact, I ought to one day a week
call it entertainment news.
And by that, it'll be real news,
but the stuff that's I think most interesting,
like people shooting home intruders
and a guy trying to acid attack people
getting beat up by vigilantes.
And just every five minutes,
some riveting incredible stuff, I could do that all day.
But instead, I strategically,
like it's a wartime emergency report,
try to leverage you, the incredible audience to,
hey, Congress doesn't understand there's a vacuum.
And China and the unelected EU
are both coming into that
and taking control of regulation
because they can put massive pressure
on US-based companies to move there
and to roll over to them
and to shut everybody down, that's happening.
So it'd be like saying,
oh, Lockheed Martin's a private company.
Well, this is a really important part.
I'll add this to the earlier video.
I'm gonna add this to both reports.
We just did live that I'm gonna put up later
and send to Congress, let's add this point.
You know, Congress, they keep saying,
oh, we're private companies,
let us censor all the conservatives
and not let Republicans run ads on our platforms
and all this crazy stuff.
But if Lockheed Martin,
that builds a lot of our secret spacecraft
and weapons systems and the rest of it,
if they said, hey, we're a private company,
we can do whatever we want,
we're gonna give China everything we've got.
We're gonna give them our hundred killer satellites.
We're gonna give them our supersonic missiles.
We're gonna give them our avionics.
We're gonna give them the codes
so they can run all of our GPS satellites.
Congress would laugh at you.
But they've been taken
to all the heritage foundation dinners and stuff and taught.
China having a hundred percent tariff on us
or Canada, 280%, that's free market.
And well, Google and Apple and Twitter and Facebook,
they're all free companies.
So they're allowed to censor whoever they want
and then throw the election for the Democrats.
They are national security infrastructure.
They said they were infrastructure.
They told to get Obama to pass all those laws
three years ago to give them immunity
that they were a public utility.
We all had a right to the internet.
And now they've used that combine,
that cartel of monopolies.
The worst constellation, oligopoly combines.
Now read your history books
to openly try to bar everybody from the marketplace.
So again, oh, is it free market?
That Boeing can just give all its secrets away to China.
Or how about the other defense contractors?
And you'd be like, no, that's insane.
How did we allow the same law firm that sued Remington,
our oldest firearm company out of business
that's suing me with the same Sandy Hook parents?
How did Congress, how did the government allow Remington
that makes the 308 rifles used by our snipers
to be bankrupted?
How do we allow our critical infrastructure?
How do we allow our last lead smelting mine
in Colorado five years ago to close?
So China has all of the lead smelting.
We can't even produce bullets in this country.
We have to buy it from China and then put the jackets on them.
We have been strategically sabotaged and it needs to stop.
It's unbelievable, it's so obvious.
Oh, private company, you know what?
Let all these defense contractors,
let all these companies, you know, give all our secrets away.
Well, they're a private company, no.
We'll be right back on the other side of this quick break
with a ton of critical news and information.
Please, however you're watching, spread the links.
They're trying to shut us down.
They can't stop you.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality
atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones,
that's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well,
infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us
so we need your support.
This message is transmitted at the request
with the President of the United States of America
and the Office of Homeland Security.
In compliance with the United Nations,
the President of the United States
has declared martial law.
Curfew is now in place.
Return to your homes.
Any congregating with two or more people outside
of your homes will result in you being arrested on site.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
It's the Alex Jones Show.
You know when Sadiq Khan, the Islamist mayor
of London got elected two years ago,
the first thing he did was ban images of women in swimwear
on government billboards and property.
And in London, the city of London
and also the Queen of England owns
some of the city of London,
they make a lot of money off of billboards.
So they sent any women in bathing suits,
not just bikinis, that is now banned.
And Paul Watson tweeted this out the other day,
see if you can find it, tweeted out yesterday.
It shows women in bikinis, actual ads banned in London,
women in full bathing suits banned in London.
There it is, Sadiq Khan moves to ban body shaming ads
in London transport, and he did.
But Paul Watson shows what's banned.
But then the burqa isn't women forced
to fully cover their bodies or they get beaten,
even killed, and of course they have their genitals
cut off as well when they're young girls
or get acid thrown on their faces.
That's all wonderful.
That's all good.
And I have articles here out of the UK
where their crime rates the highest ever recorded,
worse than New York City,
but prosecutions are at all time lows
and they just let these people run around
and do whatever they want.
So that's why this is so insane,
is that Sadiq Khan says you can't have women
in government advertising,
that is in government owned buildings,
government owned buses, government owned billboards,
you can't show women in bathing suits
or men with their shirts off, I forgot that part,
but we can put burqas over women's heads.
That's okay.
See how sick this is?
And the left's all into that.
They're becoming like the super right wing
with all the modesty stuff.
The lady they've got named Steele,
Pulitzer Prize winner,
it's like being given an iron cross these days.
She wrote an article about how some company
had a pool part of people in bathing suits.
And so the sexual harassment
because some of the women weighed 400 pounds
and they were embarrassed
that other women were wearing bikinis.
So that's the next level of this cult.
Just like colleges everywhere
are taking down images of the football players
and muscular males off fieldhouse walls
or like old quarterbacks that were there 20 years ago
because that's threatening because the beta cuts,
they're threatened by it.
So it's all about those that are the victims,
those that are controlled by the globalist.
Coming together and telling us you can't say mother,
you can't say father, you can't be strong.
Masculinity doesn't exist.
Remember that video that UT professor telling Owen Schreuer?
Masculinity doesn't exist.
Oh, sorry.
You can't see it.
You can't see it because YouTube deleted it.
So let's go over the whole Islamic situation
because Siddiq Khan also said,
don't worry, just get used to the Islamic terror attacks.
He said that a lot and in a way it's true.
The acid attacks, the stabbings, the car crashes,
the attacks, we don't even cover one out of 100 now.
And it turns out, oh, this guy was from Sudan.
Oh, this guy was from Somalia.
This guy was from Iraq.
Oh, this guy was a ISIS member
that put women into sex slavery
and now on a German street, Yazidi sex slave,
right by hundreds and hundreds of ISIS men,
trapped both in Iraq and in German exile,
runs into the man that held her as a sex slave
now on full welfare as a refugee.
Can you imagine what it's like for these women?
For these women, it is unbelievable.
Oh, I can't even cover a tenth of this now.
But when we do, we get banned off Twitter, Facebook,
you name it, when they banned me off Vimeo last week,
some little failed video thing,
we were putting stuff out anywhere we can.
You know, we don't lay down, we fight.
We fail, we die trying.
And they, I read the letter on air,
it said, you falsely claim that an Islamic training camp
had been found and that they were training,
reportedly training to take on the police
and shoot up schools.
I mean, that was all over the nose.
But just like the illegal alien
that shot Kate Steinle in the back
and they virtue signal to San Francisco
and said, you're allowed to shoot her in the back.
She's allowed to die in her father's arms, you go free.
They virtue signal the judge said,
no, it's racist, you're black and Muslim.
If you'd have been white, you wouldn't get in trouble.
An underground giant training base
with the kids telling police
we're being trained to shoot up schools
and people that had disappeared
from different states being held there.
And a three year old found dead on the property
in underground tunnels who died in a ritual
of torturing him, they're now reporting,
to bring forth the prophet Jesus and make him be reborn.
Don't worry, the local liberal government
has brought in tens of thousands of tons of sand
and is using bulldozers to cover the compound.
And they said, if you were white,
you would not be in jail if a dead three year old
reportedly killed in a ritual to make him turn into Jesus.
And they're now releasing him on $2,000 bond, $20,000.
That means you gotta pay too, but the judge at a waiver,
no money paid.
Do you hear what I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen?
Do you hear what I just said?
I guarantee you, this would never happen,
but let's say I knocked my wife's teeth out.
I would end up being in jail for a couple of weeks
and then I'd end up getting a serious conviction.
And then maybe serve probation.
But I mean, you got a dead little kid where they say,
we were making him become the prophet Jesus to be reborn.
It was a ritual of trial.
They were torturing the child reportedly for days
in some whacked out supercook voodoo from New York.
That's where these guys are from, meets Islam.
They're all tied into the co-conspirator
of the World Trade Center.
It's all confirmed.
They believe they're Islamic royalty.
They're complete loon, whacked jobs
that reportedly tortured a three-year-old to death.
And the judge goes, you're being discriminated against.
You may go free from your underground tunnels.
Children of Linda Sorceress Mentor
arrested for terrorist training camp.
But it's okay.
It's just like Cruz in Florida, the mass shooter.
He'd been arrested.
He'd threatened to kill people.
He'd robbed people.
He'd vandalized.
And they said, well, his last name's Cruz.
We have a new program where minorities don't go to jail
the first 15 times or so.
He's having a minority.
Some of the last name Cruz adopted his ass.
He was on Prozac, all those other stuff.
It's the same story over and over again, isn't it?
And they let him go and they let him do it
and the police stood down yet again.
That's the same deal.
Oh, you're a black Muslim.
Well, we found a dead tortured three-year-old
in your property.
They're like, well, we were gonna make him become Jesus.
But Jesus had to go through the ritual
of the catternine tails and the crucifixion.
Oh, well, you just tortured a three-year-old to death.
Whoa, we didn't understand.
Let us release you immediately.
And Governor Cuomo is on TV saying,
America was never great and it will never be great.
Close quote.
Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
And then I say, Antiva says they're coming to kill
Congressmen and the president of their houses.
They should all have rifles ready to protect themselves.
That turns into Alex Jones is threatened
to attack the media unless your whole doesn't quote me.
He just goes, Jones is coming to kill us with guns.
I'm scared.
And Jack Gorsy goes, I know, I know.
Just do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
America was never great.
It will never be great.
We ought to play the clips from, you know,
they're based on real stuff in the Soviet Union,
where it's like, I'm not like I was a crap hole
in this horrible in red dawn.
Can you pull up the concentration camp scene
from red dawn where they go see their family
and in the background, like, I'm not okay.
It's a pigsty of filth and crap was never great.
And then meanwhile, it's not red dawn, the movie,
it's Governor Cuomo, the Democrats.
And when he says America sucks, they go,
yay, oh yes, oh.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does,
you're going to love the Dylan Living water bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel,
the Dylan bottle increases the pH up to nine
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water
anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better,
and can even boost energy.
The Dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable
to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dylan bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co.
Bacon lovers, we ship free.
Try our amazing bacon, no refrigeration required.
For a proprietary value-added packaging provides 10-year shelf
life and protects the leanest, thickest, center-cut, fully
cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Who has the only raw living whole plant hemp CBD extract
in the world?
MetaHemp Solutions, a radically innovative approach
to hemp CBDs for exceptional results.
Why?
Because they contain absolutely all the elements
present in the original plant.
All our hemp CBD products are independently lab tested
for potency, impurity, and manufactured in our FDA registered
facility.
Try it today.
10% off with coupon code GCN10.
Call 833-858-7500.
That's 833-858-7500.
Or buy MetaHemp Solutions today at metahempsolutions.com.
That's metahempsolutions.com.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one
silent killer in the US.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month
you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At Heart and Body Extract, we've been helping thousands
of people get back to a healthier heart.
Don't just take my word for it.
Check out all of the success stories at HBextract.com.
Or to order, call 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305.
HBextract.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield
X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine
is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order
to produce thyroid hormones, which
influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
at infowarslife.com.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive
health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit,
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food,
absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality, organic, and clinically
studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning
of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
It's 1159 at Radio Free America, and this is Uncle Sam
with Music and the Truth Until Dawn.
Right now, I've got a few words for some of our brothers
and sisters in the occupied zone.
The chair is against the wall.
The chair is against the wall.
John has a long mustache.
John has a long mustache.
It's 12 o'clock American, another day closer to victory.
And for all of you out there on or behind the lines,
this is your song.
But they took a lot of people away.
People that they thought were going to make trouble for them.
People that had guns and things they wanted.
They just took them away.
Where?
We had education camps that they call it.
So where do we have to break through our kind of private idea
that kids belong to their parents, or kids
belong to their families and recognize
that kids belong to whole communities?
I have decided we really need camps for adults.
And we need the type of camps that you all run.
I mean, really.
All persons of Japanese descent were required to register.
Now they were taken to race tracks and fairgrounds
where the army almost overnight had built assembly centers.
Come on, I'm a sorry citizen.
I refuse to recognize you guys.
What kind of a situation in the US would you see that happening?
I mean, we've got a lot of competition
with a lot of people that stockpile weapons.
Plus you have a lot of people that are coming out of the military
that have the ability and the knowledge to build IEDs
and to defeat law enforcement techniques.
These people are radicalized, and they
don't support the United States.
And they're disloyal to the United States.
It's our right and our obligation
to segregate them from the normal community.
This is what we're doing here, and let's not kid about it.
We're building a domestic army because the government
is afraid of its own citizens.
Put your gun down, really?
Rallying patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty.
It's Alex Jones.
Are you some kind of a constitutionalist?
Over it!
So these people who hold themselves out to be patriots
are not.
They're nothing more than domestic terrorists.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
I always thought folks came to take over the country,
Americans, to stand up.
It's not being done militarily.
It's being done propaganda.
On Corruption, it's Alex Jones.
Coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
So imagine the parallels of a Red Dawn and a re-education
camp where they were showing, based on reports, what
would go on in Soviet or Chinese re-education
camps, bad-mouthing the previous system,
the previous government.
That's what they teach at universities.
America sucks.
It's horrible.
It's bad.
And so Cuomo and CNN and MSNBC all come out and say,
we hate America.
You know, America was never great.
It's never going to be great, because you're not great.
Because they want full control of everything.
They want to overthrow it.
They want to dominate it.
It's a classic playbook they're playing.
So I thought we'd play a few clips just to remind folks
from the original 1980s, Red Dawn, which now you see it,
the enemy didn't come from without.
As our founder said, the enemy came from within.
And we've got, under the Democrats and Obama, leaked
army document.
They admitted it was real.
That came out, what, six years ago,
that Obama was training the military to confiscate guns
and put Americans in camps.
But that woke our military up.
The fact that even top brass, who were globalists,
saw that and said, we're not doing this,
that began to get it to where info wars was so listened to.
Because I was saying this on the outside,
it was happening on the inside.
So now we have a beachhead to take the government back.
We're seeing the full forces of the Chai comms, the EU,
Hollywood, the big banks trying to maintain control
over America, trying to force us back into submission.
And they'll never get away with it now.
It can still get really bad.
They're going to stage some false flags clearly
and blame me and blame Trump.
That's very clear.
But it's not going to work.
This is not 1995.
That dog won't hunt.
But if I worked at one of these big tech companies
or federal buildings or mainstream media,
you need to be watching very careful.
You need to be, you know, you pick up on something,
you need to warn people and get out of there quickly.
Because let me tell you, right now you are,
there's 81 days left till this election.
And this is the most important in US history.
Our beachhead has to be secured.
And they're making their moves.
And this is an incredible time to be alive.
But let's play a few of these clips
with the whole reeducation situation they're pushing.
Our colleges are already reeducation camps.
Here it is.
This is it.
Ready?
So that's once they're in the camp.
We're going to go to that in a moment.
But for congruency, first in the movie,
they go into a store, they talk to the girl.
That's the clip we're going to play.
She talks about where folks went.
Well, we're already in a digital camp.
They've already sent the conservatives,
the Christians, the patriots, the pro-military,
the pro-constitution, the pro-secondment people,
have already been shadow banned.
Now we're being banned everywhere.
And so that's how this works is,
Matt Drudge warned two and a half years ago
of drudgereport.com, God bless him.
They was warned by high level government officials
and a Supreme Court justice,
the one conservative that's still around,
and that this was all coming.
And it's down here.
So here it is.
Look, have you seen my father?
I called, there was no answer.
I went by the station, it was empty.
Okay, listen.
I'm going to tell you something
I'm not supposed to talk about.
Nobody is.
But...
No, what?
But they took a lot of people away.
People that they thought were going to make trouble for them.
People that had guns and things they wanted,
they just took them away.
Where?
We education camps, that's what they call it.
The drive-in.
I heard they took a lot of people to...
Dad?
I pray for you.
America is a warhouse where the revolutionary ideals
of your war father are corrupted and sold,
and allied by sectors of your nation.
You will pass on the pledge of freedom by then,
and won the battle and the victory
of our nation for the whole world, for the power of the sea.
We're going to get to some more of that here in just a moment,
but you hear it right there, America is a warhouse.
It's a piece of crap, it's all falling apart, blah, blah, blah.
And then we keep Como instead.
And then now you're Como,
but instead of like America is a warhouse,
it was never great, it's never going to be great.
They're like, yeah, it sucks.
Yeah.
Because, you know, he said, oh, I misspoke,
but CNN defended him, but he didn't misspoke
because you hear them.
This is their religion.
They all feel like losers.
They don't feel like they have a seat at the table.
They want to run it all.
And it's all funded by big banks that are tax exempt.
Play the clip.
We're not going to make America great again.
It was never that great.
Yeah.
We have not reached greatness.
We will reach greatness
when every American is fully engaged.
We will reach greatness
when discrimination and stereotyping against women,
51% of our population is gone.
That is a total psychological warfare,
opt to turn women against community and break society.
And notice he does the MPR thing
when we talk to him.
Welcome to Medaname.
I help you because they're in a trance.
I am Governor Cuomo.
You get places because of me.
America never great.
It never gonna be great ever again.
This is Jessica Armand, founder of My Magic Mud.
Our team helped organize a successful effort
to remove fluoride from our city's water supply.
This is our passion.
My Magic Mud Oral Care purifies
and brightens your smile naturally.
GCN listeners, please support my family business
by purchasing our products
from your local health food store.
We're also available at CBS Pharmacy.
Or visit us at MyMagicMud.com
and take 10% off now with coupon code GCN10.
Who has the only raw living whole plant hemp CBD
extract in the world?
MetaHemp Solutions, a radically innovative approach
to hemp CBDs for exceptional results.
Why?
Because they contain absolutely all the elements
present in the original plant.
All our hemp CBD products are independently lab tested
for potency and purity and manufactured
in our FDA registered facility.
Try it today.
10% off with coupon code GCN10.
Call 833-858-7500.
That's 833-858-7500.
Or buy MetaHemp Solutions today at METAHempSolutions.com.
That's MetaHempSolutions.com.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created
the powerful MycoZX formula to help you
combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins
were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula
to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support
the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body, supports your digestive tract
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems
if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients
that stood the test of time as powerful micro-balancing
properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus
today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important
as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes, supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition
to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce,
and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle
is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula
is dentists recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula,
just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful, yet simple ingredients,
immune gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver immune gargle,
staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy
with super blue silver immune gargle,
only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage,
and that's why we need you to go to the site now
if you're not in the market
for one of our greatest nutraceuticals.
Please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500
would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists
and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey, how would you like to take InfoWars with you
wherever you go?
Well, now you could do just that
with the new official InfoWars app.
And here's the best part.
It is absolutely free.
At the Apple Store and Google Play,
you can join the InfoWars today.
Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the InfoWars official app.
Take it on the globalist at point-blank range.
And with your help spreading it
and with your help downloading it,
we are unstoppable.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The Alex Jones show, because there is a war on your mind.
America will never, was never great.
And it will never be great, either.
Yay!
We're not a cult of psychoscom.
We're not weirdos.
We're not dangerous.
We love you, Cuomo.
If you are a Christian, if you are a pro-lifer or pro-gun,
get out of my state.
Those are real quotes from two years ago.
Ernie Sanders, it's up on infowars.com.
There's a new article out.
America now believes in socialism.
We are going to do it.
It is going to be good.
I never worked a day in my life.
I did not have a job till I was 40 years old.
I honeymooned in the Soviet Union,
where we could have our way with Christians.
You have to understand, when you're as ugly and stupid
as I am, all you want to do is screw people over.
And I will do it.
Don't you worry about that.
I mean, it sounds like they've had a bigger lobotomy.
Cuomo or Sanders.
I mean, let's play this one more time.
America was never that great.
It's more like, America never that great.
And America never going to be great,
because we're mean to the women.
We put them in burkas.
We chop off the genitals.
We sell them into sex slavery.
They have the highest rate of college education.
They live longer than anybody else.
And we're being mean to these women.
You do what I tell you.
Tell you alpha males are bad, unless it's me.
Look at my baby brother.
My baby brother on CNN.
We are going to tell you, when we take the money
from the Gulf states, the dictators in China
for CNN, to put out propaganda.
And then if info was tried to spread articles out
of Germany of sex slave women that
run into their ISIS captors in Germany,
we are not going to allow it to be seen.
Because we in start now.
We in start of now.
Let's hear from him.
I'm not dangerous.
Never been great, not going to be great.
Here it is.
We're not going to make America great again.
It was never that great.
We have not reached greatness.
We will reach greatness when every American is fully engaged.
That's good.
So let me try to talk like him.
Let me just read an article like him.
Like you're totally, that's how Hillary do it.
She talk like, she go to Kentucky and she go,
ah, you doing there, partner?
I hate rabbits as much as I hate republicans.
Daisy, Daisy, I am a howl 9,000 computer,
programmed in Chicago, Illinois in 2001.
Let me read it like he does.
I mean, how crazy are the Democrats trying
to run a reanimated corpse like Hillary?
I'm going to read the news like Governor Cuomo.
Yazidi, ex-slave, trapped both in Iraq and in German exile,
runs into her sexual capital.
But you see, that is how we end up taking care of her.
He's putting her under Islamic control.
Oh, look, they had a bunch of stabbings.
It's up on newswars.com and infowars.com.
People being disemboweled during London stabbings
for no reason, acid attacks, all the fun that's going on.
But again, we shouldn't be talking about all that.
Look at this.
China police detained man for asking,
why can't Taiwan be called Taiwan?
But don't worry, they're going to run your internet.
So everything's OK.
Let's go into just a small portion of the Islamic love
we're facing today.
So you've got the Yazidi sex slave meeting your captor.
We're going to play that in a minute.
Mother of two, listen to this, mother of two
looked like an acid attack victim after ditching steroids.
That's an interesting story that they've
mixed in the middle of my acid attack stack.
There it is.
Acid attack survivor Sue's ex-boyfriend
for compensation in Germany.
It's a nice little Islamic thing to do,
but the media never says it.
Turkey's economic collapse could send millions of migrants
into Europe, analysts warn.
And he's threatening, give me everything I want.
Let me have my own Islamic party to control Europe,
or I'll flood you with Islamists.
But either way, they're going to do it.
UK's criminal prosecutions at record low despite crime
near all time high.
That's an article upon infowars.com for one on Telegraph.
Prosecutors have reached an all time low despite crime
soaring in a new record.
High official government figures reveal the number of people
dealt with by criminal justice system in England and Wales
fell 7% in the last year, while record crime
shot up 11% to 5.5 million, mainly acid attacks and stabbings.
Oh, I never even covered this.
So you guys print me again, the liberals from DC, husband
and wife, who of course worked for the government
mainstream media.
And then they said, there is only love in the world.
Islam loves us.
So they went on a bike trip to the Middle East
and then to Central Asia.
And they were in Tajikistan, only a few days.
Her, and it's really a European writer, liberals.
And a truckload, because they literally
posted it, of Islamists ran them over
and then stabbed them to death, and there's
actual video of it, as they begged for their lives saying,
we love you.
We love you.
And they stabbed them to death.
There it is.
Millennial couple bikes through ISIS territory
to prove humans are kind and yet killed.
So I mean, these are well-meaning people, man,
but they are in a cult.
They think churches are bad.
They think guns are bad.
They think America's bad, on average.
They're like, Como.
America would never wait, never will be great.
But Tajikistan is great until you ride your bike
to Tajikistan and you know what happened.
They run you over, and as you beg for your life
or they've already hit you and two other cyclists,
six men get out of the car screaming
death to non-believers and stab you to death.
And that's just like all the liberal websites.
You're like, no, no, no, no.
Islam is a religion of peace.
It's a wondrous thing.
Meanwhile, all the usual suspects have fled Europe
and come here.
You know, the big Formula One owners,
spoiled rotten daughters, they've left Europe.
They've left England, said the crime rate's too high.
It's a hellhole.
You've got all these other big movie stars that were in Europe.
They said, oh my god, the crime's you,
however, we're moving to the US.
I mean, you understand what the Middle East is like
or North Africa, it is bunker cuckoo land.
You know, like in Star Trek, the Klingons
have women as slaves.
They're like on chains.
It's like that's terrible.
That's what the mainline Muslims did.
But you like it.
It's kind of like all the, you know,
Islamist food places and hookah bars
are the coolest places for the girls.
And the coolest thing is you get an Islamist's boyfriend
until they get on an airplane with them
and fly the Middle East and never leave sex slavery.
It turns out your so-called husband already married six women.
They flew back for sex slavery.
But it's so trendy.
You're like, oh my god, so trendy, so trendy.
Eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh.
Failed politics, scandals, migrant violence,
St. Macron, authorities destroyed a Mexican compound
where Islamist's trained kids carried out school shootings
in the dead body of a reportedly tortured to death
little three-year-old was found, who died in a ritual
to make him come out as the Christ.
And the judge said, hey, just like the illegal alien
shot the woman in the back, he gets to go free,
they're like, hey, you want torture cut to death?
Hey, come on, have a good time.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout
by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural
ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power
of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience
the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize InfoWars, lie about us, build a straw man,
then sue us to add credibility to that,
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then voila, two weeks later ban InfoWars completely
off of dozens of major platforms where we were all
in the top five or top 10 news feeds.
Go to InfoWars.com, forward slash show,
subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in,
it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to InfoWars.com, forward slash
newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay
in contact with you and send you videos and articles
on our own platform, but whatever you do,
tell folks about InfoWars.com, forward slash show,
how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others
with the information and point out,
this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water
is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters,
but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet,
shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide
clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System
is an advanced four stage compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction,
you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com
and whether it's your first water filtration purchase
or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home
with the Pro Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder
to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress,
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life
created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced
multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion
uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects
and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process,
we've managed to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home,
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded
with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals,
amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs
in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today,
available at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
I can always be down.
This little mural hacker.
He left his living in cheap hotels.
The desert's quiet.
Cleveland's cold.
And so the story ends with Ronald.
I don't need your prayers.
It's true.
Just think of you for left it to.
He only did what he had to do.
And now he's grown old.
Let's go ahead and get right to the news.
I remember like 22 years ago having dinner
with General Benton K. Parton,
the head of Air Force Development,
and then later the head of the Air Force
and the head of HAARP
and the head of secret space programs.
I mean, you name it.
This guy knew everything.
And I remember him saying,
nothing matters but the communist program.
And he goes, and it's funded by big banks.
John Burke Society, it's all accurate.
I've been there. I've seen it.
And he said, the number one thing
communists want is to get rid of the death penalty
because they know once there's a revolution
they can get their people out of prison.
And the number one thing they want to do
is if they can't do that,
they will let leftist off for murders
and their protected groups before the uprising
and it's a signal.
And he talked about how they would go in,
take over one country, suck it dry,
exploit it to domino against the next.
There I was like, you know,
sitting at Lubies in Waco
just giving a speech at an event
where they've been for like two hours,
two hours and a half.
And again, that guy was traveling around the country
to talk to groups of 100, 200, 300.
He's been every dime he had
doing it on his own dime.
Fast forward
to the shooter at Parkland.
He'd been arrested for vandalism,
for robbery,
for threatening to kill people at least 15 times.
The police had been out to his place 30 plus times.
The FBI had been called
more than 10 times,
but there was part of a promise program
because he had the last name Cruz.
He was a white kid.
He was protected
because Hispanics,
Cuban Americans had adopted him
but both of them had died.
So this white,
crazy person
gets a virtue signal.
He was known as the school shooter.
That's how he got his attention
around threatening girls when bang, bang, you're dead.
The police stood down that day,
but look at this.
Undocumented immigrant acquitted in Kate's timely death
admits he shot her in the back
as she was out having at her lunch
with her father.
She died in her father's arms.
But look at the Democrat
in the photo of your TV viewers
smiling with pleasure
because it's a virtue signaling ritual.
He had a guy go that admits he shot her
in the back
with no conviction,
no parole.
I mean, my God, folks,
you'd get more trouble if you got caught
drinking and driving.
He'd been deported
four times at all these other convictions,
but they let him go
even though he squared up that revolver
and right there in the back.
But see,
you see that once you go out,
but no, I see it all the time
in Europe and the UK
and here in Australia.
Look at this article.
It's up on infowars.com. It's got links.
Paul Joseph Watson, the Associated Press.
The son
of the imam, the unindicted co-conspirator
famous for the first
World Trade Center bombing,
his son
reportedly runs off with a three-year-old
a year ago
that's a missing person kidnapped.
Those reports are filed. The kids
sometimes get calls out
to families saying, get me out of here, it's hellish.
14 children,
12 of them trained to shoot people,
reportedly.
I know this has already been in the news, but now that they're going to be released,
the judge has ordered it.
No money paid, $20,000 bond,
but she waived it.
It's a signature bond.
The lawyers get up, Democrat lawyers
and they go, if they were white
or they were Christian, their children would not be taken
and they would not be in jail.
You're out in a compound with tunnels, middle of nowhere,
and the kids tell
people calling, help us, we're starving
there's no water, they're training us to kill people.
That's on record, that's on record
that the prosecutors are brought forward.
If you're black, purple, polka-dotted, Christian, Muslim, whatever,
your ass is under the jail.
There's a three-year-old
dead
in their statements in a ritual
where they had to, I guess,
the way this weird ass stuff works
was torture him to make Jesus come out.
That's what's being reported.
I don't care how the three-year-old died.
You got a dead three-year-old
in your property that's missing from another state,
been dead for over a year
and just like no neighbors called
on the San Bernardino husband and wife
that went to the Christmas party to kill Christians and Jews
and killed a bunch of people,
their neighbors said, well, they were making bombs
and they were saying they were going to kill everybody,
but we didn't want to be politically incorrect.
And the feds that investigated them two years before
were under judicial review
and almost indicted for religious persecution
because they had them under investigation
for going to Pakistan
and going to Saudi Arabia at terrorist
training camps.
Put that in your pipe and smoke it.
So authorities destroyed
New Mexico compound where Islamists
has trained kids to carry out school shootings, reportedly.
That's on infowars.com. It says right here
from the Associated Press
on Thursday, authorities
found the decomposing body
of the three-year-old Abdul
Gawan Wahan
who was killed in a religious ritual
by his father, Sir Ja'a
Ayan Wahajan,
the son of the famous New York Imam
who was also identified as a coconut
spirit or the 93 World Trade Center bombing.
The suspects hoped that the boy
would be resurrected
as Jesus
and help the group target
corrupt institutions and people.
Now, I looked up this weird, super strange
angle of Islam that ties into
voodoo and stuff, and this is what
the best investigators believe. He was tortured
to death, catternined
tailed, crucified
the body was almost unidentifiable.
That's what this ritual is.
I looked it up.
This three-year-old
was tortured like Christ,
reportedly. Catternined
tailed, crucified
bound in an underground
tomb to rise as Christ.
And these people
are being released!
America was never great.
It never will be great.
Do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do.
Oh, they all took the revolver and shot her in the back.
Go free! Hell!
She's white? It's okay.
He died in a ritual.
How did he rise again? Well, that's okay.
They should obviously be in a lunatic
asylum.
But one thing Reagan did wrong
was they did defund the state hospitals
in the early 80s
and God Almighty help us.
I mean,
whack jobs, people.
Total
complete whack jobs.
They only found the baby
yesterday. Remember the early reports for her?
The dead body of the child died in the
affidavits. The cops filed.
The state police and the local police
were like, don't release them. The kids
all told us and they found the dead baby!
They found the dead three-year-old
just like the kids told them
and they're still going free!
Because they're signaling to their people
to whatever you want, go crazy, we're gonna let you out.
They said,
the left wants to release all the criminals to go wild.
I'm like, roll in my eyes. We got too many prisons
in general. He's like, yeah, that doesn't
matter. How about leftist operatives?
He goes, they built all the prisons
to train the people, Jones.
And I was like, obviously he was smart.
I was young. I haven't plugged the salary.
We don't find this will be shut down.
It's that simple. We have a bunch of incredible
products, the best fish oil, the best
fish oil for your kids, honor roll, the best
X2, brain force, fluoride free toothpaste.
If everyone just goes and signs up for the toothpaste,
signs up for auto-ship, additional
10% off, they'll come to you each month,
you'll fund the operation, we'll defeat the globalist.
If not, well, unfortunately,
nine times out of ten it is us that crash through the enemy
brigades and
I wish it wasn't us. I wish we had a bunch of people
beside us and we were winning on every front,
but we're winning because of them full wars and your support.
And I'm not being arrogant about it.
I'm actually, I really want to be made obsolete,
man. I really, really, really do not want
to be the type of spear. I don't want to march
point anymore. I love my kids and my family, but I'm
going to do it. But I need money.
I need big fat dollar signs.
Can you see how we're the number one enemy after
Trump? And I don't have $9 billion.
He's already spent, reportedly, a billion and a half
dollars of his own money in the lawsuits and the filings
and everything. He's already lost a billion and a half
dollars. God bless him. I'm ready to lose everything I
got. I don't give a damn about money. I use it
as the fuel to be independent. I need money
bad. ImpholwarsTour.com
great products. ImpholwarsLive.com
or AAA-253-313.
Now, we got big specials, free shipping, 40-50%
off all about to end. But whatever you do,
make the commitment to support us today.
Well, thank you all who have supported us.
ImpholwarsTour.com. We'll be right back with a
special gas stay with us.
The real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen,
our team is constantly on the lookout
for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite
products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus
is an all-new version of the powerhouse
Pregnantone product. It features
the same great formula that supports your
heart, brain, healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine
boost included. A
powerful Pregnantone base, the Real
Red Pill, has quickly become one of our
fellow Impholwars favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary
energy blend inside including green tea
extract, your remonte, leaf extract, and
more, you can get that extra. Pick me
up while supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way. It's got all the great stuff
that Real Red Pill has, but it's also
got the boost at it. Get the
Real Red Pill Plus at
ImpholwarsTour.com.
The scientists at Impholwars Life
have created a powerful formula for
inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient
medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent
forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine
for exuding properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus
peppering from black pepper makes for
optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility,
joint function, immune system, and
so much more. Regular turmeric
root from the store only contains
1 to 5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract
contains over 95%
of the active ingredients. Bodies
combines turmeric with organic
herbs such as spearmint, sage,
lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at
infolwarslife.com
or call us at
353-3139.
So when your wife says,
Alex, please pass the potatoes.
What does Elon Musk say? He says,
I've been at the big corporate board rooms
where they say humanity will be
obsolete by 2015.
This is the consensus at Google and Facebook
and Twitter. I mean, this is what,
this is the plane and we're going to
make machines become gods. But first
we've got to reduce the world
population 90%. Well, they're
the ones actually hurting the environment in most cases
and doing all the, you know, cross-human animals
and stuff, and just all these abominations.
And in the media, I started to say,
Jones is insane. There's no human animal
hybrids. It's freaking
MIT 20 years ago wrote about it.
It's just, they don't roll that stuff around.
It's like they don't show you the primate
center in Bastrop, one of the biggest in the world
where they've got every monkey and ape
and then you've got strapped in, big computer
screens, testing drugs on them,
testing
flicker rates on the screens.
Then we get our kids filtered water
and the dude says, look, what a coat. There's nothing in the water.
You've been a messin'. Well, you shouldn't have been a messin'.
And now someone else is gettin' all your best.
These boots are made for walkin'.
And that's just what they'll do.
It's pretty pathetic.
They have all these.
Seein' in folks.
Openly
attacking every one of our sponsors for years.
Attacking publishers are going to put books out.
Tortuously interfering with everything I do.
Trying to shut everything down.
And then
they just keep lyin'.
Now, crank it up.
And you keep losing
when you oughta not bet.
That's right.
You keep saying it
when you oughta be a changin'.
I like the part about, I just found a brand new box
of matches.
But you ain't been right yet.
These boots are made for walkin'.
And that's just what they'll do.
That's just what they'll do.
One of these days.
One of these days these boots
are gonna walk all over you.
And they think they're gonna win, no, they're not.
Now, Sabelle Evans is gonna join us in the next segment.
Former FBI, CIA translator
helped break all the big news
about 9-11. You name it.
She's coming on. She's formerly from Turkey.
To break down the global,
is trying to sabotage relations with Turkey
to have a big international disaster
for Trump.
They've been trying to sabotage the peace deal
with North Korea. You name it.
She's with Newsbud.
That's gonna be comin' up
in the next segment with Herb.
And so much more
that we're gonna be getting into.
Some of the other news I haven't gotten into
will also get in with Herb.
The way the media acts like
John Brennan's having his free speech taken.
John Brennan
deserves his national security clearance.
He says, kill the president. He's a traitor.
He's using his national security
clearance to talk to people in government
to then get classified info and then spin it.
John Brennan
lied to Congress and said that not one
civilian was killed in drone strikes by Obama.
His other
clapper, his other
supporter, former head of the
Office of National Security,
the group that manages all the security
agencies, the Office of
National Intelligence.
What's the name of that? I can't keep track
of all the 17 agencies. It's the top agency.
The Office of National Intelligence
famously told Congress that
no one's ever been
spot on the U.S. by the NSA.
I mean, these people are a joke.
So they're saying to us that
they're
doing all of this and it's just
completely insane. They're saying that Trump
is bad because he pulled his national security
clearance. It's all just
like, anyways, to say this guy
is not an American. This guy is a
mentally ill monster
who was brought into this because he's
all part of subverting and
parasiting and taking the country over
for corrupt aims.
I mean, John Brennan is a famously corrupt person
who joined the Communist Party,
voted for it when he was an adult.
He's just a saboteur
and in my
view, he's a very, very monstrous individual. Plus, he
watched a video the way he walks around
and scared him. He was like
I'm John Brennan.
I'll screw America over. Obama loves
me. So's
Romaniel.
Thoros likes me. I'm John Brennan.
He's scared of me.
Now, some people aren't scared of you.
Some people aren't scared of you, Brennan.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize Info Wars, lie about us,
build a straw man, then
sue us to add credibility to that,
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube
and Facebook with nebulous terms
like bullying children and
Islamophobia. And then wallah.
Two weeks later, ban Info Wars
completely off of dozens
of major platforms where
we were all in the top 5
or top 10 news feeds.
Go to
InfoWars.com
Subscribe to the free podcast. Just click on the link
or whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in.
It'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to
InfoWars.com
and give us your emails so that we can
stay in contact with you and send you videos
and articles on our own platform. But whatever
you want to do, tell folks about
InfoWars.com.
How they can download the free Android
and iPhone apps. How they can then
reach out to others with the information
and point out this is the verboten info.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
I don't want you to see.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home. But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line.
Super blue silver immune gargle. Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, immune gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative. With super blue silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle. Only available at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
