From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and Gentlemen, it is Monday, the 20th day of August 2018.
We're going to be live here for the next four hours and then Owen Schroyer comes up with Roger Stone with the War Room.
Now, I've always known what the whole leftist agenda is about.
I know from the scholarly research that's out there where it comes from, where the modern antecedent of it or the fount or the progenitor point is, the genesis.
And more and more I've thought about over the years, even before Prager University existed and they've done a great job, about just doing little 5-10 minute documentary, animated, illustrated, factoid films, easily digestible that just break down the facts.
But we really need to do that today.
We need to talk about the Jacobins and the French Revolution and understand how they differ from our revolution and what they did.
They wanted to end the family, end the sexes.
They wanted a nine-day work week with no days off and they wanted to set themselves up as absolute gods over the people.
That's mainline history books.
And that's where the whole left-hand path comes from in the occult is the sinister side in fables and in most cultures. It was seen as the right hand was right and was the hand of God.
And then the left hand was the path of the devil, especially in Christian and Jewish mysticism.
And when Tucker Carlson had a professor on Friday, only you're part of the church, Eric coming up, he laid it out, he said, listen, these are nihilists, they want total power, they want to overthrow strength.
And that's it.
They're evil.
They're very, very twisted.
They have a lot of unhappy, dishonorable, stupid minions under them that don't understand why they're so unhappy.
And it's because they're dishonorable.
And let me tell you something.
Being attacked by the corporate press the last couple of years has given me a next level understanding of what the president's going through.
These people know their criminals.
They know they're lying.
They know they're evil.
And so you look at Jim Acosta saying that the Martin Luther King bus was taken out when he knew it was right there, or that he didn't visit Congressman Scalise or, you know, that Trump did this or that.
He knows he's lying.
And I know you know, but then there's the arrogance of Brian Stelter who looks so disingenuous and just physically repulsive and evil.
And then his work is even worse.
The cover of the book certainly matches the interior.
With him up there lecturing Jack Dorsey about how I need to be taken off Twitter, like he's this high and mighty God, and that he's just there and that he makes all the decisions.
And it's like CNN is the authority.
CNN literally has almost no viewers.
CNN is nothing but an anti-free speech weapon system against America in their own words.
They're the ones calling for violence.
And then when Trump says you're liars, they say that he's calling for violence and then Stelter and Lester Holt and NBC.
They all say I'm calling for violence and don't show where I said it.
You're like, yeah, Alex, we know they're liars, but it's beyond that.
They actually believe.
Brian Stelter, who had to do PR campaigns with fake girlfriends, you know, actresses that weren't even his girlfriend that came out, to make him look manly.
I mean, it's just, it's the ultimate case of a crazy, out of control, megalomaniac, psycho looking, yellow-toothed.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Okay, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a roundup of the incredibly important news we're going to go over.
Every country in Africa that has gotten modern African rule has promptly stolen all the property from any Westerners, slaughtered whoever else can't escape, and then they begin to devalue the currency until it's a billion to one,
and then the nation falls back into the jungle and mass starvation and death. And we've got the Chinese Communist and the UN in there fanning the flames of Africa falling because when the West goes in, when the Dutch went in,
they built railroads and infrastructure and aqueducts and electricity. When the Chinese go in, they build an armored base with their own generators and give the outside groups nothing, except they take people like a modern penal colony out of China,
they dump millions of their prisoners and then dump them out outside the gate. But you're not going to hear the New York Times or the Washington Post or any of those other operations
telling you about that because they're all knowing that you've got a Christian background ethos, even if you're not a Christian, and that you have guilt about things and you want to be a good person.
So they're psychopaths and sociopaths who prey on you, and so they deploy emotions to control you.
And now the British government's coming out and supporting the taking of white Afrikaner land that in some cases has been in their hands 400 years and that there was no one around in that area of South Africa when they showed up because it was a waste land.
Then from all over Africa, people migrated in for jobs and work and it was one of the most prosperous areas in Africa. Am I defending apartheid? No.
But they're replacing it with communism and ANC rule after six countries in the last 70 years have done the exact same thing.
I remember a few months ago covering that the President, the Defense Minister, and the Deputy President all said we're going to kill the whites after we take all their land and we're not going to let them leave.
They called Australia racist and said, don't let whites even flee and then they kill them when they try to flee.
The universities, the British government are all in the news today saying, we're not taking whites. You're going to die. You can't leave. Australia won't take you.
England won't take you. Germany won't take you. America won't take you. No one will take you. There are calls for more visas to be issued in Australia but the government so far has not issued those.
So continuing, that's just one of the type of reports I have today.
They literally have articles in places like the Boston Globe I've seen saying, is it possible for someone not white to be racist?
That is the most asinine, idiotic question.
Racist just means tribal or gang.
So if you go to New Guinea, you've got people that are genetically identical basically but they're killing each other island to island and shrinking each other's heads and eating each other's body parts in a ritual.
You had Native Americans genetically very similar, say the Comanche versus the Blackfoot, and they would ritualistically hunt and kill each other.
And you had the Germans acting the same way and the Romans. We all act the same until Jesus Christ came.
And the Christian ethos was, let's stop conquering everybody. Let's stop slaughtering everybody. It doesn't mean Christians didn't stop but it was at least the idea of renaissance not conquest.
And so Western cultures became the most successful under Christendom because there was at least some degree of treating people as your brothers and sisters and it could unify different people of different colors and different backgrounds under Christendom.
That's why the globalists want to get rid of it because they want to have a bunch of people fighting with each other that they then manage in a tower of Babel model.
And that's their admitted plan for total nihilism.
You also have open editorials in the Washington Post and other publications threatening the judge basically.
In the Manafort case, the judge says he's been threatened, the jurors have been threatened, but the secret, but the federal marshals don't want him to give specifics.
And of course, unprecedented CNN.
As soon as I heard this weekend that a motion had been filed, they said coming up next and I knew it would be, I was watching Fox News while I was on the elliptical Saturday morning and I knew I said it'll be CNN, it'll be MSNBC, it'll be the Associated Press, it'll be the New York Times, the Washington Post.
And sure enough, no one ever tries to get the names of juries until after the verdict.
And usually sometimes they keep them secret, but it's a mafia trial.
No one, I'm telling you, man, folks, you cannot talk to the New York Times or the Washington Post.
You cannot talk to any of them.
They're worse than they've ever been.
They have been green-lighted to act as a mafia invading army.
They want the names of those juries to put the screws to them, ladies and gentlemen.
These people aren't playing games.
And remember, the American Left supports nihilism and they want those farmers that are literally feeding 90% of not just South Africa, but surrounding countries to fail and fall.
They're into it.
It's what they do.
Venezuela is collapsing in a total battle, beyond its previous disorder.
This is what happens.
This is what goes on.
This is the plan.
We're going to go to break.
And I'm going to come back and get into all the other news and, of course, the big news.
President Trump is moving against the globalist.
He is moving against the big tech giants, and we have been calling for that.
And the New York Times, in a rare moment of truth, had to actually come to the realization that Trump's tweets, some of them were word for word what I'd said the day before.
You know, Trump can write his own tweets.
He likes to mess with you a little bit.
And if you only knew what was in store, I think you've got an idea.
But you banned us a little too early before the midterms, giving us two months and 19 days, is it?
To be able to expose you and get the information out.
So this is a serious battle.
The enemy is fully focused and fully energized with their lust and their control freak desire to absolutely dominate this republic.
And to run your life.
None of the globalists want to work.
None of their minions want to work, but they're sure going to run your life.
So it's the last day for fight the bullies, save the internet, save info.
We're super special.
It is the last day.
Brain force plus 40% off the amazing new tropic plus free shipping.
Super male and super female vitality that is close to being sold out.
I should add it's proprietary formula cold pressed for stamina, libido energy makes the globalist man when you order it.
See how great it is for yourself.
50% off plus free shipping.
That is unprecedented.
She were 12 amazing pure organic vitamin B12 BuzzFeed tested.
Couldn't believe it was the top B12 in the country.
They couldn't believe it.
40% off plus free shipping.
Winner son 40% off plus free shipping.
DNA force.
This is an amazing deal.
50% off.
Find out about the PQQ, the CoQ10, the actual organic source base of it.
Survival shield X to the amazing good halogen.
Find out what's missing in your life with the good halogen alpha power.
I mean, it's super male and female is cold pressed.
Some of the same stuff, but this is organic, but concentrated and just super, super strong.
Not, not for everybody.
I tell you, it's, it's, I mean, I want people one of the strongest thing out there.
We believe it's about as strong as thing.
There is in this category, uh, stamina, libido, energy, uh, you name it.
I mean, it's, it's, it's the nuclear bomb.
It's the hydrogen bomb.
All fluoride free, super blue.
Foil, silver, iodine, forward five products from the mouthwash to the.
All of it.
50% off.
Ultimate fish oil combo.
40% off.
Biotrystalline 50% off and other specials in today.
They've got to go.
Some of these are about to sell out without you.
We will not have the funding.
If you need your support, please go to m4store.com today.
It's on for auto shipping additional 10% off.
And don't forget we have atria points as well.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Healthcare reform is confusing,
but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions,
navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
That's medihempsolutions.com.
Today at dyln.co, that's dyln.co.
To generate the world's finest coffee bean,
carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals
used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth
to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier
with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
It's the campaign of censorship
that wants to strangle our first amendment rights.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's now only 78 days to the midterms,
the most important election undoubtedly in U.S. history.
The entire world is watching.
The Chai Khoms, the big megabanks.
Hollywood, the unelected E.U.
Jacobin, nihilist and control freaks,
desperate to dominate and control greater men and women,
are throwing their full force against humanity.
Trump stands proudly at the front lines,
along with you and myself, Matt Grudge and the info war.
Going forward, ladies and gentlemen,
this is the great animating contest of Liberty.
This is your life, your destiny, your future in your hands.
The excitement is palpable.
The challenge is great,
but the future is secured
and we can make it through just a few more levels of this fight.
Let's get into it right now, ladies and gentlemen.
I rarely play a clip twice in the same couple of days.
Obviously, we played Cuomo saying that America was never great
and is never going to be great.
And how they're trying to demoralize us,
the nihilist, the control freaks, the social engineers, the psychopaths.
And how once you understand their mindset, they're easily defeated.
But you've got to stop letting them manipulate your emotions.
You've got to understand their paradigm.
But this Tucker Carlson piece, I didn't play all of it yesterday.
I want to play more of it today. It's the whole show.
35-minute clip, 40-minute clip up on infowars.com.
Video, Tucker Carlson comes out in support of Alex Jones and free speech.
Why is it so important?
Media Matters actually got the headline better than the one I came up with.
And that was Tucker Carlson called conservatives cowards and stupid
for sitting on the sideline during my deplatforming, my unpersoning.
Now make no mistake, this is admittedly the Chinese global social score
that Jack Dorsey's even on TV going,
oh, we're going to condition you with Pavlovian conditioning and make you behave.
The internet was invented, the concept, the intergalactic communication service.
Look it up.
Envisioned in the 50s by a psychiatrist that wanted to test how propaganda was working on people
and they wanted to track everything we did with algorithms.
And then the scientists in the UK and the US, not Al Gore, that's another lie,
invented it in the late 60s, the actual systems within universities.
They didn't call an email when my dad was in high school going to UT in the Plan 2 accelerated program.
And it was just all world government eugenics, just all out in the open.
Because I think he tested the top six in the state when he was a sophomore in high schools.
They were like, right to UT, right to MD Anderson, right to research laboratories.
And then once you get in there, they just induct you.
You're part of the elite.
We're the scientific technocrats.
This is the future.
The government runs the narcotics.
The government runs the child kidnapping rings.
And I remember my little kid, my dad goes, read Brzezinski's book.
This is in the 70s.
He'd written it.
It was in the 80s.
And Brzezinski admitted that the government runs the criminal operations and everything else.
At least they were trying to mainline that at the time.
But I'm digressing.
I need to get to Tucker Carlson.
I'll have to do it next segment now, but this will just segue into it.
And you have to understand that's the whole leftist thing is that they're the priest class.
They're controlling you.
And then so what you see them doing to the public, poisoning you, dumbing you down,
giving you GMO, giving you deadly vaccines, trying to hype up the stupidest people,
trying to promote them positions of power.
That's at a substrate to make society shut down and be dysfunctional so they can control the collapse.
And everything has been orchestrating towards the collapse of main civilization,
the collapse of the family into the technocracy that will come in on golden wings as the savior.
So that's the plan.
But Carlson had a professor on the first guest breaking down how these are nihilist.
They want to overthrow reality.
They have captured us.
They are now in control and they are bringing in pure authoritarianism.
And then I'll get into the latest as Trump strikes back with orders against Facebook and others.
And I didn't learn this from the president.
I just learned from folks around the president.
We'll leave it that way that don't worry.
The Cavalry's coming.
And I told you that last week and then you saw the president's tweets on Saturday.
And how the China is the threat and they're the one taking over the web and how big tech's going to pay for what they're doing,
discriminating against conservatives and all that.
But I talked to a lot of little birdies and Trump is preparing executive orders right now.
And we're talking next two weeks or so.
So get ready for that.
Warner and his plan three weeks ago leaked the secret report.
We beat the drum mightily.
I thought I was being banned over China and Apple and Google moving to China.
That was icing on the cake.
Phone calls were made by Warner.
We now know Friday and Saturday to the tech heads and he said, listen, you start shutting them all down.
Just like Murphy said, he said, don't just shut Jones down.
He said, shut them all down.
He said, you shut them down.
Or when I'm president two years, that's what they think the Democrats right now think he's the guy.
I'm going to I'm going to win the midterms.
We're going to shut you down.
We're going to make you state run.
And by the way, Google and Apple were already state run when they were something again with they've just.
That's how globalism works.
You set it up as infrastructure of the country to make us dominant.
But then it's really sold off the globalist to give them the power.
So Google, Microsoft, Apple, IBM, all of them are DARPA creations and you can even go research it.
And the fact that you heard Steve Pachennick talk about this in two days later.
It was in the Bloomberg and he has high level sources and I have other sources.
Remember when they took me off YouTube five months ago and then they had to put me back up and then I told you it was a mutiny and so did Pachennick.
And then high level Trump said stop it because it wasn't just me.
It was thousands of sites and they put us back up.
They have decided Trump's going to be removed and they're now believing Warner and they're making their move on Trump and somehow they've got Silicon Valley now going.
We don't care what Trump says.
We're going with Warner.
And that's why Trump said it will not be tolerated.
You're going to pay for this.
So this is total civil war inside the deep state, ladies and gentlemen.
And this is way above my pay grade.
It's way above your pay grade.
I don't know how Trump handles it, but pray to Jesus because let me tell you it is on.
They just banned Prager University to leave their videos.
Shut them down on Facebook where no one can even see their information.
They have a 99.999 shutdown.
That means you have to physically go there and be able to log in if you're them to see it.
I mean, it is on ladies and gentlemen.
Everybody I know is being banned.
Stefan Molyneux.
You name it.
It's just Laura Loomer.
Gavin McGannis.
It's here.
And I told everybody when they started starting to demonize me a few months ago and start shutting me down here and there, I said, you're not coming to my aid.
You're not coming to my aid.
I said, only drugs report.
Only Matt Drudge is not an idiot.
And we'd be in 10 times worse shape.
It wasn't for Drudge.
Drudge deserves as much credit.
You know, he doesn't want it as President Trump.
It's a fact.
The Lord works mysterious ways.
If it wasn't for you, the audience either of this.
It's Drudge.
It's Trump.
It's this audience.
I'm just a traffic cop here, but I'm telling you, this is history.
We'll play the Tucker Carlson that's so critical straight ahead.
They so pride in every stitch, guarantee you love the way they feel.
They put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most.
Blue diamond gussets got it, others don't.
We're good old fashioned comfort.
Get diamond gusset genes.
Every stitch guaranteed.
And our Defender motorcycle gene comes cavilar reinforced.
See them at gusset.com or call 888-848-7738.
That's 888-848-7738.
Diamond gusset genes got it, others don't.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me like, first demonize infowars, lie about us, build a straw man,
then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then voila, two weeks later ban infowars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and give us your email
so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com forward slash show,
how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out,
this is the verboten info, this is what they don't want you to see.
Better raise your ears, a sound of hoes knock at your door.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Lock up your wives and children now. It's time to wield the blade.
This is interesting factoid and not bragging. Dave Mustaine's a really great guy
and he stayed at my house a few times and I know him pretty well.
I just got so busy over the years, I never have time to keep track of Billy Corrigan or him
or all the other folks that haven't gone public on my show.
They're big musicians that I really like and admire,
not because they're musicians, but because I like their music and they're also smart people.
But he asked me about three years ago, he goes,
I want you to co-write my next album.
And he was like serious.
He was going to come here to town for a couple weeks and help him with,
because you have the whole album.
He'd done in-game and ended up with my film in-game.
He made a couple off the show.
He wanted me to help get the facts right.
I said, dude, come on.
I can't write the Four Horsemen like you did.
So you go ahead and write your new album.
It's not that I'm too good for it.
I'm going to let Dave Mustaine, who wrote most of the songs on Metallica's first three albums,
I think you can do it.
I think you're the guy for that, not me.
Just an interesting little factoid there, because I mean, there I was like 10 years old listening to Kill Him All.
Then all these years later, I got a chance to write an album with a guy that wrote that.
And I just, and then the war is so intense, I can't even do it.
That just shows how you don't know the power you have out there when you take action.
Going back about like eight years ago, I found out that Mike Judge was a listener.
He got to be good friends with him.
And like I said, I've been in such a war mode over the years.
I never even have time to hang out with him when he's offered to hang out or go out to his ranch.
And I learned, you know, you're king of the hills based on you.
And I go, oh, really?
And he doesn't understand.
When he was writing King of the Hill, I was just on access TV.
He said, yeah, part of you is Dale Gribble, part of you is Hank Hill and this and that.
And he said, it was just you and these other two guys on the conspiracy show that you've gone.
That's how I got the idea.
And that's kind of what went into it.
And then later I met his house and he's like, yeah, here's a VHS tape.
He pops it in.
It's my show from 1996.
My name on it and the notes because I guess he's making a documentary.
He got it all out.
And there it was.
And I was like, he wasn't just saying that.
And that's not me name dropping.
It shows how you don't know how when you speak out or call in the talk radio or call in the C-span or have an idea or something you say or do, you don't know how it changes the world.
And you don't know how much your courage affects things.
So thank you for all you've done as listeners and the actions you've taken and having the courage to stand up for what's right with all the bullying and intimidation because you are changing the world.
All right.
Let me get to the Tucker Carlson video because this is important and the whole things on info wars.com.
I'm banned on Twitter right now.
So you pull lots and retweet it over at prison planet.
But but I mean, this is powerful stuff folks.
Now, not just what he says about me when he goes to the professors and others.
This is the truth.
You have to understand Carlson put his head on the chopping block to do something like this.
Believe me.
I know.
I'm going to leave it at that.
So you're seeing who's who.
Matt Drudge, Tucker Carlson, President Trump.
World Net Daily.
Breitbart.
Here it is.
Good evening and welcome to a special inside the issues edition of Tucker Carlson tonight.
Over the next hour, we'll take a deeper dive into some of the biggest matters affecting American life today.
We start with speech.
As you probably heard recently, many of the biggest tech companies joined in a coordinated effort to censor content from broadcaster Alex Jones.
Apple, Facebook, Spotify, Vimeo, YouTube, Twitter, all of them.
The old or froze Jones's accounts on the grounds that his views are too dangerous to be heard publicly.
The left, which seeks to crush anything it can't control, applauded the news.
The institutional right in Washington, afraid of being criticized, mostly stayed silent.
That was foolish and it was cowardly.
This isn't about Alex Jones or any one person.
It's about the central principle of our society.
And it's at stake here.
Do people have a right to communicate their views?
It doesn't matter what those views are, Alex Jones's views or anyone else's views.
They may be misguided.
They may be repugnant.
Often they are.
But there's a remedy for repugnant views.
Make a counter case.
Defeat bad ideas with good ideas.
Kill lies with truth.
That's how healthy societies function.
We are moving in the opposite direction.
Increasingly, the people in charge use technology to silence criticism, mostly of them.
The left will tell you that defending Alex Jones' right to speak is the same as defending what Alex Jones says.
That is a lie and they know it's a lie.
We would make the very same case on behalf of Jill Stein or Noam Chomsky on the left
or anyone else the establishment was trying to silence.
The left-wing ACLU spent about 100 years representing radical extremists whose views they hated.
And they did it to make that point.
Free speech is for everybody, even the crazies.
That's the very definition of it.
Back it up, Todd. Thank you.
But that's when the left was taking power and getting control of the institutions.
And now they say, you know, let somebody and drag, teach your two-year-old how to pole dance.
And you're like, wow, you shouldn't sexualize kids.
Boom, you're off Twitter.
You're off Facebook.
You're off.
Because they just want the most extreme authorization.
And now they're in control and they want censorship.
And now the universities and now the media are engines of killing free speech.
They lobby to shut you down.
I have multiple universities suing me to shut the broadcast off.
The Vatican owns and runs Georgetown.
They know I'm exposing their giant pedophile rings that have taken over the Catholic Church.
They want me shut down.
Notice they say, so dangerous you can't hear it.
Later, Mark Dice actually went back and saw the video they banned on Twitter of me,
saying legally and lawfully and through the criminal justice system,
we need to go after the people saying they're going to use anti-foot-a-kill Republican leaders.
That turned into, I said, attack the press.
And Jack Dorsey, those on all these shows with Stelter and CNN, NBC, Lester Holt, that's coming up.
And Lester Holt's like, he said he's coming with rifles to get us.
I got chills right now.
And Dorsey's like, I know it's pretty scary, isn't it?
But I'm going to let him stay on even though he's saying kill people.
Damn liar. It's unbelievable.
And then Brian Stelter.
Well, we can't allow him to be on air.
You know, he's too dangerous.
Too dangerous, you people launched fake wars that killed millions of people in the Arab Spring.
You people are against the recovery. You people are the enemy of America, the enemy of truth.
Let's continue with Tucker Carlson.
He's sending radically extremists whose views they hated.
And they did it to make that point.
Free speech is for everybody, even the crazies.
That's the very definition of free speech.
In a free country, everyone can be heard.
In totalitarian societies, only the powerful can be heard.
The left used to understand. Stop again, back it up 10 seconds.
That's key.
What do they call themselves at Davos?
The current global elites at Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, IBM, General Electric, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan.
Literally, you can pull these up from five years ago, a year ago.
Type it into Bloomberg.
Technocrats rule Davos.
And then they have them saying, we're appointing leaders to run the EU.
We're now going to have a technocracy run by us in control.
We are now technocrats, which means a technological dictatorship.
They are saying we are techno dictators in press releases.
And now 90 plus percent of the web is six major conglomerates with a bunch of little feeder fish that follow it.
They make up the other 7% who all in unison in a total antitrust operation, did stop this, lined up and removed me from most of the internet in unison.
We're going to go to break and come back with the finish with Tucker and then the first professor.
I'm going to be done with that.
I'm going to get into the next big fight here.
One last breath, the four wind blows.
Better raise your ears.
Sound of hooves.
Walk of your life, children now.
It's time to wield the blade.
There's now you've got some company.
Horsemen are drawing nearer.
Leather steeds they ride.
They come to take your leave.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home.
Removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current run down systems.
It's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in Fuller's life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body, then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
In Fuller's life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as myco ZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today.
www.infowarslife.com
Flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try Bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Hello, this is Hank Hill and I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones.
www.infowarslife.com
Live from Austin, Texas broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
www.infowarslife.com
I get high on freedom.
I tell you I'm hired in the kite right now.
All natural endorphins.
Thanks for joining us.
I was going through this Tucker Carlson piece because it's so important from so many angles.
And we've got a bunch of special guests joining us that are being really persecuted by the system right now.
It's been around for decades.
The MasterCard said you don't get to bank.
We're just taking your credit card away.
That's the final put in the gulag, folks.
From the ghetto to the gulag, it's here.
And that's what I can let you know that Trump's getting ready with executive orders on that.
Oopsie, was I supposed to say that?
I wasn't told I couldn't.
Oopsie.
And some other executive orders.
Oopsie.
I think later, you know, the magnitude of this stuff is I feel like I ought to have like marching bands or something when I announce this and like have it up at a podium or something.
Like I told the crew, I'm going to start renting a place just for the gravitas of it to do PowerPoints in a big arena kind of.
So I can sit there up on big projectors and do the presentations so that it's professional enough for the president and others that are watching.
And that's really their horror is that they do know the president's listening and they know that when he goes and checks with top experts, they go, yes, sir, that's exactly what's going on.
The president's like, how's this guy know all this?
And they go, sir, that's all he does.
And I'm going to leave it at that.
But they're always asking me, you know, what's Trump said to you?
What does Trump say to you on the phone?
It's not going to be a lot of fun. I was going to do it for the country and humanity. We got to stand up against these people.
We've let them take over.
It's going to hurt our families and our children and our future too bad.
You know what sick liars they are and what control freaks they are bunch of low life scum.
We're going to win.
America's coming back.
We've got to bring everybody together regardless of race, color and creed.
We got to have the social compact again.
We've got to reinvigorate humanity's destiny and let folks know how powerful and wonderful they are.
Same stuff you hear in public.
And we've got to make America great again and make everybody great again.
We've got to win and make a future for humans.
They've had a joke about a week ago.
Oh, Trump hasn't responded.
It helped you.
Where are you, Alex?
You're not listening.
He won't help you.
Week later, they're freaked out.
It's not about helping me.
I was wanting to help me and be a brown a bunch of sociopath zombies like you.
I'd be in New York or DC or LA and I'd have the fake, stupid trophy wife and I'd go to
weird dinners with a bunch of other plastic people all trying to jockey with each other
to see who could be the most dominant and I'd be totally unhappy.
I want to be out on an old dock fishing with an old man and one of my kids.
I want to be up in a holler with a bunch of hound dogs laying around in front of a fire
drinking an apple cider.
I want to be out with my dad looking up at the stars that we used to do with the telescope
and taking photos of Jupiter and Saturn and putting them on the wall.
I sure don't want to be with you people.
And that's why they hate infant wars because we're not for sale.
We're already sold to Jesus Christ and thank God Christ will take me.
I'm hanging on the helicopter skids.
I got a devil tail the whole nine yards and I was like,
they're trying to pull me back down.
I'm like, no, I'm going with you.
Get me out of here, please.
I don't care what they do.
Let's go back to Tucker Carlson.
Landed all out in this amazing individual he had on that really nails it.
Here it is free speech is for everybody, even the crazies.
That's the very definition of free speech in a free country.
Everyone can be heard in totalitarian societies.
Only the powerful can be heard.
The left used to understand that, but they don't anymore.
What changed?
Why are the most powerful companies in the world suddenly so threatened by an independent radio show host in Texas
that they're willing to lose business in order to make him shut up?
And Joe's is hardly their only target.
That's for sure.
Virtually every day, the big tech companies censor someone else whose political opinions they disagree with.
Thousands.
You see all the time.
Last summer, the CEO of Google, who is a billionaire, by the way,
flew home from family vacation just to fire a low level programmer called James Deymore.
What did Deymore do?
His crime was writing a private memo that gently questioned identity politics.
The reaction in both those cases and many others like them was weirdly disproportionate, almost hysterical.
It was like shooting someone for looking at you funny.
Confident people don't behave like that.
Insecure, terrified people do.
And that's the point.
Our establishment crushes dissent not because our establishment is strong, but because it is weak and afraid.
In the words of a perceptive essay this week, quote,
censorship is what happens when powerful people get scared.
That piece was written by a former Wall Street executive called Michael Krieger and it's worth quoting at length here.
Elites aren't afraid of what Alex Jones says, Krieger writes.
They're terrified that it's popular.
They're in denial about the consequences of the world they created.
Trump didn't divide American society.
Alex Jones didn't cause our widespread and, by the way, justified distrust in institutions.
Elites did that with their spectacular failures.
Trump's election and Alex Jones's popularity are merely symptoms of a corrupt and failed status quo.
The stewards of which refuse to take a look in the mirror except blame and reform.
Censorship by Silicon Valley billionaires will backfire spectacularly.
Ultimately, it's safer for society to have open public forums where all ideas, whether you consider them dangerous and crazy or not,
can be openly expressed alongside each other.
De-platforming popular content won't make it go away.
It will just shift areas of the Internet you may not see where it will fester and grow stronger over time
and even more intense and radicalized echo chambers.
You'll think it's gone from society because it's been safely cleansed from your corporate government Facebook timeline,
but it may grow even stronger in the shadows.
End quote.
In other words, censorship does not work.
Ideas spread.
The good ones, which are rooted in nature and observable reality, take root and they endure.
People know what's true.
They can smell it.
You can't stop them from knowing that.
You can't control their minds.
You can only humiliate yourself and undermine your own authority by trying.
Our childish billionaire overlords may be geniuses.
They say they are, but they don't understand that.
Some day soon they will learn.
And that is a comforting thought at a time like this.
Joining us now is DePaul University Professor Jason Hill.
Professor, thank you for coming on.
Thank you.
So tell us your view of why censorship from the left, but not exclusively from left, but mostly has increased
that doesn't seem like the sign of confidence.
It seems like the sign of people who believe they're losing control.
Well, I think what has happened is that the right has lost the cultural wars.
I think that we are seeing a period since the 1964-65 period in which the free speech movement
was fought ironically by the far left.
We are under the nefarious control of a left, far left movement that is in cultural,
exercising cultural power and is in control of our cultural institutions.
That is the total truth.
They're the ones that say they're victims.
They get everybody organized into being victims and now anti-white, the horrible racist operating system,
the opposite of what Martin Luther King said.
They take the fact that Christians have rolled out the red carpet and the abolitionist
and a million dead in the Civil War and everything Christians did, white Christians,
to end slavery worldwide.
They throw it on their head, take our strength, make it a weakness,
hype everyone into race-based politics, identity politics,
and then now bring in stuff the Soviet Union didn't say you can't say mother or father.
And they're just getting started.
So this professor, Jason Hill, the whole thing, I didn't know this guy was.
I went and read his writings.
He's absolutely on target.
He's read the research.
He knows who they are.
You want to know, listen to that guy.
We're going to come back and finish up with him on the side.
Listen, I should be plugging every segment as much attack as we're under.
I just can't.
I'm just not in the habit of doing it.
Our big mega sale has to end today because we're about to sell out of a bunch of our best-selling items.
So again, fight the bully, save the Internet, save Info War.
Super special.
Whether it's DNA Force Plus, 50% off free shipping,
Winter Sun, Secret 12, 40% off.
Survival's the next two.
40% off because, I mean, it's almost a cost of 40% off, folks.
Alpha Power is amazing.
50% off, incredible.
All Super Blue products.
The fluoride-free, 25% off.
Plus free shipping.
Ultimate Fish Oil Combo.
So you have the Krill.
Incredibly clean.
The Deep Fjord Salmon.
Incredibly clean.
Just amazing for your body.
And then we have Roll Call for your children.
It's 40% off and you get all three bottles together.
25% off individually.
Biotrystalline, 50% off.
That's amazing.
Find out about Biotru and what that means.
It's truly organic and pure mustard seed extract.
M4WarsLife.com.
M4WarsStore.com.
And if you fund us, we can stand up against the enemy.
The Fire Breathing Dragon.
I mean, I'm out here on the field, quite frankly.
We're still standing, but if you don't support us.
Patrick, in the great nation of Australia,
you're on the air worldwide.
Thanks for holding.
Hey, Alex, mate.
I've been following you since I was 14.
And I'm 32 now.
I remember back when Info Wars and Prison Planet,
it was just blue text on a white screen
and it had to load down the page on my dial-up internet.
And I thought it was pretty cool.
And read all the books and seen all the DVDs
and followed all your guests.
And I've been using your products since the first iteration
of Survival Shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2, the Super Male Vitality,
the Caveman, the Real Red Pill,
micro ZX body.
It's all amazing.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah.
And I wanted to say that by following you so much,
it's like you're just detoxing the mind.
You're detoxing the body.
You're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God,
the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an honor to stand side by side
with you, the crew, and the listeners out there.
1776 World War.
You are the info war.
And now because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors
can get between us with critical videos, articles,
breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com
articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter
at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
All right, coming up next segment,
Robert Spencer of Jihad Watch.
They've taken his punishment to the next level
at getting rid of his credit card payment system
for daring to criticize the open jihad attacks
happening everywhere.
Got a big stack of that news coming up next segment.
And they've taken one of our payment processors as well.
And they are trying to destroy us
because we're not rolling over to their big plan.
But let's finish up with Tucker Carlson and this professor he has on
about the nihilism, the anti-Americanism, the globalism.
And now that the so-called left, the authoritarian left,
it's outlawed with radical Islam, you name it, is in charge,
now no one has speech.
And it was all cold-blooded from the start.
Just like they took over the institutions, everything.
This is the true clear and present danger.
And now President Trump is getting ready to take action.
I'm going to give you the tales of that.
I know the enemy is listening at the bottom of the hour
after our guest leaves us.
But first, finishing up with Tucker Carlson.
We are under the nefarious control of a left, far left movement
that is in cultural, exercising cultural power
and is in control of our cultural institutions.
And what we have are these institutions like Google,
like Twitter, like YouTube, yielding to that cultural power
out of fear of retribution or repercussions
that they fear will have financial consequences.
But make no mistake about it.
We are in the thrills of a far left that has exercised
and is exercising great cultural power over our society.
They have won the cultural wars.
What I don't understand is why people who descend,
who have different views, tend to be so passive in the face
of attempts to shut them up.
I understand why people don't like Alex Jones.
I'm not defending Alex Jones's views, obviously.
But if they can silence a radio show host...
And again, Tucker's got to do that to even say this on air.
Believe me, I can tell you, I know for a fact.
But I don't mind that.
The issue is, and I've told him that,
the issue is that he means the straw man.
He knows he can't unravel all the fake straw men about me
and what they said in the lies about what I ever did
and the twisting.
So he just says, you know, we can't defend it.
I'm not going to.
But everybody has a right.
Let's continue.
I'm not defending Alex Jones's views, obviously.
But if they can silence a radio show host,
or if they can silence James Daymore, the engineer at Google,
why can't they silence you?
Why can't they silence me?
Of course they can.
Why don't we fight back against this?
We can't fight back because we have not...
We don't have the moral courage to fight the opposition.
We are apologists for our values
and we're apologists for our principles.
We have ceded the moral high-grown to the adversary.
And in some sense, we have given them the moral authority
out of some sense of cowardice.
I think there's a great deal of moral cowardice.
Let's pause again.
And he gets into the nihilism and the Jackman's everything here
because he's a history professor.
He knows.
Stelter gets up there with Jack Dorsey along with a bunch of other people
and says, Jones is calling for violence against us.
They never show the clip.
Journalistically, that's a fraud.
It's not true.
And it's just like authority, like I say taking him off Dorsey.
And the next segment, he's literally, Trump wants to ban the press
because he's criticizing them saying they're liars.
Saying you're a liar, Stelter, it's not threatening you.
You're just such frauds, man.
Well, here, let's finish up with the professor.
We have given them the moral authority out of some sense of cowardice.
I think there's a great deal of moral cowardice that conservatives have,
that people who are even mildly conservative have.
And we have ceded the moral high ground to people who have co-opted values
and principles in the name of some sort of morality.
That is nothing short of nihilism, cultural relativism,
an attack on reason, and an attack on rationalism.
When we post this info, we'll put the whole interview up.
But yeah, George Orwell was a big socialist.
He got to the higher levels.
He said, no, they're like basically Satanists that hate everyone
and it's all about power, priests of power.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from infoorstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infoorstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are.
And they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us so we need your support.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas,
transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, as Christians, as conservatives, as libertarians,
as people that follow Western civilization or people that follow the more conservative,
Jewish systems like the Old Testament, Talmud,
we're self-confident and we're involved and we're successful in life
and our families are successful.
So we don't want to complain when we get oppressed or we get discriminated against.
You know, we don't go out.
We don't get on welfare.
We don't go out and sit there and get in groups and bitch and gripe until it gets really bad.
And, ladies and gentlemen, I've talked to folks at the highest levels.
I have confirmed the president's looking at executive orders right now
because the left and Senator Warner's package that came out a few weeks ago that was secret
is planning to try to censor conservatives, including the NRA, by banning us from banking.
Now, let me explain something, folks.
Banning someone from commerce, everyone overuses Nazi stuff.
This is Nazi, that's Nazi.
The left does that.
They call it Ham Sandwich Nazi.
You know, they call George Washington a Nazi.
But when you look at the left and you are the Soviets
and how they would take people out of commerce and put them in first ghettos and then gulags,
this is a form you lay from communist China to Nazi Germany of authoritarians.
They took one of our payment processors last week.
Now, we had some backups.
They've taken our mailchimp where we send out our mail.
They've taken, uh, discussed our commenting section.
They've tried to get our video services we pay for to stream ourselves kicked off.
And so, when I see an article here, Mastercard Forces,
Patreon, the blacklist, Shahad watch, Robert Spencer, who's been a guest before,
they let terrorist groups have credit cards.
They let Hamas and Hezbollah have credit cards.
I looked it up, but not a man with no criminal record.
Who, by the way, is very genteel about their jihad watch,
been around for decades, at least 15 years, I've known of.
And they're just reporting, okay, another stabbing attack, another bombing,
and there's like two or three today, a tax in Spain, a tax in France.
I can't even keep track of it anymore.
Uh, and I've had Wahhabis connected groups shooing me.
I mean, they're just all in my business.
And, and then the media is like, good, take his credit card processing away.
You know, don't let him raise money.
So folks, this is true criminal activity, in my view, and it's the height of danger.
And so I want to go to him and talk about this because this is incredibly un-American.
But beyond saying American, I mean, how would you describe this?
This is the blood of tyranny.
This is the guts of it.
I mean, when they start saying, I'm not saying this because you're Jewish.
It's the, it's historical parallel.
The first thing they told Jews was you couldn't engage in commerce.
And what, 34, 35?
I mean, this is, this is, this is, this is scary stuff.
And it's now happening to me.
And I've been told by the left, just stop talking about radical Islam and we'll leave you alone.
So what's going on?
It's the, it's a concerted effort.
Obviously, as you know, Alex, it's a concerted effort to shut down all the sending voices so that the same mistake that the left made in 2016,
and that is in allowing too much free discussion on the internet that led to the election of President Trump,
they're going to make sure it doesn't happen in 2018.
Only their voices will be heard and only their candidates presumably will be elected.
The historical parallels.
I mean, what would you parallel, tell folks what's happened to you and the specifics.
What would you, what would you call this?
I mean, this is just outrageous.
You're a hundred percent spot on.
This is exactly like what the Nazis did to the Jews.
People don't know, you know, people think, oh, it was just the Nazis came in and gas chambers.
No, the gas chambers were not for seven or eight years after the Nazis were in power.
First, they, they banned Jews from various possessions.
You couldn't profession.
Excuse me.
You couldn't be a doctor.
You couldn't be a lawyer.
You couldn't be a university professor and then banning Jews from various services.
And this is exactly what we see happening now.
They're deep platforming people so that, well, obviously I was raising money on Patreon and MasterCard said,
you've got to get rid of this guy.
They don't even think they have to give a reason and they let it go.
So if you carry this out to its logical conclusion, they ban you, they ban me, they ban Gavin McGinnis and other people.
Ultimately, we're not going to be able to do any business.
We're not going to be able to present our perspectives.
And this is exactly what happened.
The Jews ultimately, by the time the gas chambers began, they were impoverished.
They could not hold any jobs.
They were not allowed to hold any jobs.
They couldn't even go and buy food if they had money.
There was like one hour a week open for the stores to allow Jews to come in to buy things.
And so first they dehumanize you, they silence you.
Then once they'd silence the Jews and others, then they demonize and I'm not going to compare myself to the Jews.
But let me tell you, they lie about me, then they deplatform me and now that I've been deplatformed, the lies are even worse.
They say, I'm a Holocaust denier.
I hate black people all over the news.
And then they don't ever show a clip and my family's getting scared, man.
They're going, well, because now that I can't respond, they have just gotten more emboldened and you're right.
It wasn't till 42-43 Hitler said, I want a final solution.
We've been using Jews for slave labor.
We've taken all the property.
I want them all killed as quickly as possible when he thought he might lose the war.
He was going to kill them all later.
He wrote, but we got to do it now.
And so it's just totally insane that he was so obsessed with killing all the Jews.
He might have lost World War II because he spent so much of his energy doing it.
So it's a sad sacrifice that Jews had to make, but at least Hitler got beaten.
But I'm glad you're a historian on this.
But that's what's so crazy about this is they're literally following a Hitlerian program.
And I saw articles all this week.
We need a solution to the Alex Jones problem.
And I'm like thinking, God, I read Rise and Fall of Third Reich.
This don't sound too good.
Yeah, absolutely.
And the thing is that the denial in the first place, the lies that you talk about,
that they spread all these lies about you.
This is what they've been doing to me also for years.
That I come out and I say that there's a threat from Jihad terror and documented in books and on the website.
And they say, oh, he's a racist. He's a bigot.
He's an Islamophobe.
And now comes the other foot dropping that racist bigoted Islamophobes,
according to the Southern Poverty Law Center and these other real hate groups,
have no right to have a voice.
Well, that was their main reason for banning me, as you know, was Islamophobia,
because I literally talked about Jihadists running people over with cars every day.
Yeah.
Well, Jihadists are running people over with cars.
They're screaming Laugh Laugh Bar.
ISIS said, run over people with cars in Western countries and they're doing it.
But if we talk about it, then it's our fault.
And the organization of Islamic cooperation, which is 57 Muslim governments around the world,
they've been pursuing this as an agenda for years.
They have what's called an Islamophobia observatory.
And if an imam says kill the Jews, then that's okay.
The OIC doesn't say anything.
But if Spencer or Alex Jones says, look, this imam said kill the Jews,
then it's Islamophobia, goes in their Islamophobia report.
And this is something that's taken seriously.
Well, there's also, because here's the deal.
I was never against Israel, whatever.
I was never like into them.
It's just another country and Israel's our friend, whatever.
The obsession of the left calling me all these anti-Semitic names.
I'd be proud if I was Jewish.
I'm not.
And the way they get away with it on Twitter and Facebook,
and then I'm doing nothing and being banned.
And they're saying, you know, all these horrible things about my family.
And it's like, where did the left become, like they call us Nazis when we're not Nazis.
And then they're aligned with people that actually aided the Nazis.
It's crazy.
Yeah.
And they're the most anti-Israel ones out there.
And so if you want to talk about anti-Semitism, it's all on the left.
And what's more, you remember the brown shirts in the early days of Nazi Germany,
and even before the Nazis came to power, they would go to professors who were anti-Nazi
and they would shout them down.
They would circulate articles discrediting them, accusing them of various crimes.
Same thing.
They were all physically menacing them, exactly what's happening to us.
Gosh.
Wow.
JihadWatch.org.
Just good reports, facts on what's happening.
We're going to come back and talk about JihadWatch.org.
Robert Spencer, who's been banned from raising money by MasterCard.
That is just so dangerous, folks.
It's happened.
They took one of our payment processors.
It's un...
But notice, no reporting on that little victory they had because they know that is racketeering.
That is trust action.
And let me tell you, the president is getting ready to take action after our guest leaves you.
I'll tell you what little birds told me.
We're going to talk to Robert Spencer about what do we do?
How do we counteract against this?
I mean, look, you may hate Israel, okay?
Whatever.
Do you hate people's right to have commerce?
And believe me, everybody that's for destroying Israel and, you know, doing this, you're next, okay?
I don't understand this obsession with going after Jews, but all you idiots that are into it, you are fools.
Listen to what Chris said about Andrew 400.
I've lost almost 40 pounds in 10 weeks.
My son was getting married, and when I went for the suit fitting, I was the size 48.
And when I went back to do the final fitting, I was a 44.
I have more energy, that's for sure.
I probably lost four inches around my belly.
I'm 57, and I'm fat when I was in my 30s.
Here's what Dwayne said about Andrew 400.
This product really works.
I'm an old guy, and I don't trust nobody.
I've tried all kinds of stuff.
It's one of the few things I've ever bought that works.
I couldn't believe it.
I feel better.
I have more energy.
I walk 12 miles a day.
I feel great.
It changed my life.
It really has.
It's really incredible.
Guys, if you'd like to lose belly fat, gain energy, and feel great.
Try Andrew 400, the safe, natural, and affordable way to boost your testosterone.
Go to andro400.com or call 888-404-35 888-404-35 andro400.com
Let's talk tough.
Let's talk comfort.
Let's talk about down home value made in the USA blue jeans like you wore as a kid.
Remember?
There's a place down in Tennessee where they make blue diamond gusset jeans.
They so pride in every stitch guarantee you love the way they fit.
They put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most.
Blue diamond gussets got it.
For good old fashioned comfort, get diamond gusset jeans.
Every stitch guaranteed.
And our Defender motorcycle jean comes Kevlar reinforced.
See them at gusset.com or call 888-848-7738.
That's 888-848-7738.
Diamond gusset jeans got it.
Others don't.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Subscribe to the free podcast, click on the link, whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Robert Spencer is our guest, jahadwatch.org.
Very reportedly, very scientific, is reporting on all the different Islamic takeovers that are happening.
I don't want to be a war with Islam or any of these people, but you have this camp and kids call and say, we're starving, we're dying.
There's a dead kid here that was missing from another state.
They go, there's a dead kid there and the lawyers get up and say, if they weren't Muslims, they would be released.
If you were a Christian or agnostic or an atheist, you got a dead three-year-old that died and reported ritual, you'd be gone.
One reason we got banned off of Vimeo, they said, you lied and said that was a jihad training camp.
It wasn't, you are banned.
So the coddling of Islam, Robert Spencer is here, jahadwatch.org.
Mastercard says it blacklisted Robert Spencer because of illegal content, close quote.
And that's the same crap they say about me that I'm calling for violence, never showing the clip.
So the left has gotten crazy, as you said, because Trump won, but this alliance with Islam was there for a while.
You're one of the leading experts on this.
I used to hear you talk about this 15 years ago and I didn't think you were a bad guy.
I thought it was exaggerated. I thought you guys were alarmist.
It's all true. It's worse than I thought. I was wrong.
What is going on? How do we stop this? Where is this going?
Well, where it's going is exactly where it went in Nazi Germany.
I don't know if they'll put us all in gas chambers, but certainly they want a complete silencing of any dissenting views from the leftist agenda.
They want only the leftist agenda to be heard. And so there's going to be more de-platforming, more people silenced until everybody is in line.
And the only thing we can do, of course, we have to try to stop it while we can.
Start alternative platforms, try to break the power of these monopolies.
People say, oh, these are private companies. They can do whatever they want, but they are monopolies.
So we need to pursue antitrust legislation against them.
I hope the president will do this because, look, these people have more power over the means of social communication today than any totalitarian state ever had.
Now, why do you think 26 companies in Unison, six of them in one day, banned me?
I mean, and they admitted that they did it in Unison. It's like, whoa.
Well, obviously they had a meeting. Obviously they decided you were a threat and they figured they could get away with it.
And because they had already demonized you with these lies, and so it works like a charm, really.
And what's most appalling is that people don't see the implications.
And so many people, it's the same with me. They run from you and they say, well, I don't agree with everything Alex Jones said.
So this is okay. And they say this about me as well.
Well, Spencer, you know, he's Islamophobic and they don't realize that they're going to come after everyone.
I mean, actually, for years, I've been saying that anybody who speaks honestly about the nature and magnitude of the Jihad threat is smeared in his head.
Sure. But I can go and move to New York. I can move to D.C. I can move to Austin and be left alone by people.
If I try to move to Saudi Arabia or even Jordan, unless I'm in some fancy apartment or something, bodyguards,
if I try to go anywhere in the Middle East or North Africa, I will be kidnapped and killed or put in jail very, very quickly.
That's a fact. So yes, I am Islamophobic. I am Nazi phobic. I am chicon phobic.
Moving to China. Apple's moving there. They just deleted a bunch of thousands of apps.
They're helping report on political dissidents. Google's helping censor. I'm phobic of Chinese communism.
It killed over 100 million people. Damn right. I'm scared of it.
Absolutely. And this is what we're dealing with, that these people are totalitarians in the same mold.
And so they aim to do the same things. And, you know, it's not an accident that Antifa is growing more violent and aggressive on American streets.
Just a few years ago, this was unheard of. In 2010, I was in Germany and Antifa was throwing bottles and sacks of manure and things like that up onto the stage.
But nobody had heard of Antifa in the United States. And now it's a presence every time somebody on the right goes out to speak in public.
And again, the brown shirt parallels or the Malbergades is 100% historical.
Absolutely. It's 100% historical. It's following exactly the same pattern.
And the social media banning, the demonization, the false charges, and then the social media banning is going along with the violence.
And then the banning of the commerce.
Yes.
Oh, it's all coming out to people that visit info wars.com or like Donald Trump, they're being denied college admission now.
I mean, this is it. This is this.
Yeah, it's not hard to see where it's going because if Antifa is being violent now, and look, I'll tell you something else.
You know that CJ Whirlman, he's an atheist, supposedly, he's an Islamic apologist.
He wrote a book about the Quran. He's a leftist. And he actually came out last year and he said that if he saw me, he would punch me.
And he thinks that anybody who sees me should. So he's calling for violence against somebody he hates.
And that's pretty much inevitable, obviously.
Why the alliance of atheist and leftist with Islam? Is it because it's another status centralized deal and they're allied?
Yeah, they're both totalitarian orders. Sharia Islamic law is the first totalitarian state that establishes an earthly paradise and punishes with draconian punishments those who get out of line.
And so that's exactly the same thing as the communist state. It's supposedly an earthly paradise and it's the gulag if you just said.
And so they also both hate America. The enemy of my enemy is my friend.
I've just written a book, The History of Jihad, that traces 1,400 years of jihad activity.
And it shows that this is something that has always been going on.
Well, sure. And explain that. We'll come back to one more segment because this is important.
You've got the House of Islam, which is always at war with itself, but they claim outside is the House of War.
We'll come back and talk about the book on the other side, but specifically, it's all about conquest.
They taught me in college that the West invaded the Middle East.
When I actually read the history book, it said, after hundreds of invasions, and we almost lost Europe, and we did lose Constantinople, and we almost lost Rome, we finally did something.
Well, see, that's the point. They've been set against the West for 1,400 years.
So these leftists who hate America, hate Judeo-Christian civilization, hate the West, they see these people as an ally.
They see these, oh, here's somebody who's doing the same thing we want to do. We can work with them.
And then at the end, they think the two will then fight over control.
Yeah, sure. And they think because they don't understand the religious impulse and they don't respect it, they think they'll be able to ride the tiger and co-opt the jihadis.
But in reality, they should take the lesson of Iran. Remember that Khomeini, when he established the Islamic Republic of Iran, he had communists in his coalition.
But within a year or so, all the communists who had helped Khomeini gain power were dead or in prison, and it was solely an Islamic state.
Well, that's another historic thing, going back to Hitler, too, who was a socialist, national socialist party, a national worker's socialist party, Nazi.
He urged Rome, but also some of the other groups that helped him get in power. The leftists always kill the people that helped get him in power.
Yeah, and Hitler killed Rome and took, and did away with the brown shirts, who had done so much to menace his political opponents and get him there.
And I think that in this case, it's going to be the other way around, that it's the Islamic jihadis who were going to do away with the brown shirts.
Well, there's no doubt because the demographics, 1.8 billion Muslims, they say what, in 10, 15 years, 3 billion?
And I mean, they're saying, you will submit, you will, and I'm like, no, I will not. I mean, this is a real problem.
Yeah, and you're absolutely right. They're just overwhelming us demographically, but they're also going to overwhelm their leftist allies demographically and easily co-opt them and destroy them.
That's the thing about the left. I've noticed they don't think two or three places ahead. They always just, the immediacy of their power now, they're not thinking 10 years down the road. They're just, they're idiots.
Yes, quite so, because they're not going to be able to control the forces they've unleashed in the West.
Well, then you get all the Soros documents came on WikiLeaks where he wants to bring down Israel. Like, I mean, you brought down Israel, they'd be fighting forever over it.
I mean, it would be, it would be, plus Israel had nuclear weapons. Israel's not going anywhere. We'll be right back.
Oh my God, I just, this is a father of four children.
And I see Trump kind of just fix the country and they're all attacking him. I'm like, is the country worth it? Yes, it is, because even though half the country's a bunch of idiots, we can't let them run this.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon Living Water Bottle. It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy. The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration. Get your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
Get your Dillon Bottle at dyln.co. That's dyln.co. That's dyln.co. That's dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms. There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line, Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce and sixteen ounce bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only available at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
So I want to be clear, we know that if you're a TV viewer, I'll show you some of these articles while our guest is speaking.
That Senator Warner has basically said, Trump's going to lose.
Warner said, I'm going to be president in 2020, it's in his own memos.
You better get behind censorship right now, you better let us shut everybody down.
And that's when they started with me.
After they'd done the demonization campaign, they were planning this the last year and a half.
They now admit it.
Demonize me, build me up as the boogeyman, use me as the first group they take down in full wars.
Now, Prager University, Gavin McGinnis, everybody.
I mean, they're just either shadow banning or deleting everyone right now.
Thank God Trump's finally saying something and doing something and the word is executive orders, particularly because they know the big move.
Is on them going after commerce and us being even able to operate or fund ourselves with exact both that Robert Spencer's in at jihadwatch.org is the boat we're in at info wars.com.
So briefly talk about that.
What was like dealing with that and then any solution ideas and also tell us about your new book, the history of jihad that everybody should read.
Well, what really was wild about it was how Orwellian it was.
They came to Patreon wrote me and they I was I started a Patreon account.
I came into possession of an old TV studio and I thought I'd fix it up and do videos from it.
Just that simple started a Patreon to raise money to do that and not long after it started just a couple weeks after it started.
Patreon wrote me said Mastercard doesn't want to give you this platform.
So we're disabling your account.
I wrote back and asked them why on what grounds, nothing.
And then Mastercard told Breitbart, it's because you have illegal content on your website.
Now, there's nothing illegal on jihadwatch.
It's been operating for 15 years.
There's 60,000 news and commentary articles on there and there's nothing not a shred of illegality.
The only way you could conceivably think that there's anything illegal on jihadwatch is if you are obeying Islamic law.
Then there's plenty.
Then there's blasphemy against the law, all sorts of things.
Criticism of Islam, which is what's considered blasphemy, criticism of Muhammad, all those things are illegal according to Islamic law.
So is Mastercard now obeying Sharia?
It's not just a ridiculous question.
They have plenty of holdings in the Middle East and it may well be that it was because of Sharia that I was banned.
Well, you're absolutely right.
And for those that don't know, again, Sharia is the Islamic law.
They always make countries, they're in go under it by incremental moves.
And now you go to Germany, you go whatever.
People are basically already obeying Sharia law.
So we're being made to adopt whatever they're doing, whatever they're saying.
Now we have the Islamic mayor of London banning women in bathing suits on government property, on billboards, on buses.
But then, oh, but burkas are good and Boris Johnson almost got arrested for saying, look, where do you want?
But I see it as a symbol of oppression.
And it's just wild.
This is going on.
Yeah, and you know, Boris, they're going to send the conservative party, so-called, of Britain is going to send Boris Johnson to reeducation camp.
That is to sensitivity training.
And so here again, they're taking a page from the totalitarians.
The Chinese communists used to do this kind of thing.
And this is the conservative party.
Well, look, the left knows that the West has been very liberty based, but we've also gone through a renaissance.
There's also conservative elements.
So they basically adopted the super conservative stance, but projected it through the liberal lens.
So it's almost like a new morality of nihilism where, oh, you can cut your daughter's genitals off or do an honor killing or put a hood over her head,
not let her drive a car and do acid attacks.
That's beautiful and wonderful.
But if you write about all the Allah Akbar killings while you're a criminal, and so that's the death of common sense, the death of logic.
And the imposition of Sharia.
Oh, and there's more to this, Alex.
It's all actually a de-platforming story, too, in relation to my book.
The history of Jihad from Muhammad to ISIS is the first comprehensive narrative treatment of the entire history of Jihad from Muhammad,
14th centuries all around the world, to today.
And right before it came out, Congressman Keith Ellison wrote to Jeff Bezos of Amazon demanding that he stop publishing, stop offering for sale.
Every book that was published by a person who's on the Southern Poverty Law Center's hit list.
And I am listed as a hate group leader in the Southern Poverty Law Center's anti-Muslim extremists list.
This is the same kind of definition.
So this is the book, this is the book burning list.
Yeah, exactly.
And Amazon's one of the only places you can get it to start with because brick and mortar bookstores don't want to carry it.
They're afraid they're going to get blown up.
Well, I think that's it.
I mean, I think with Charlie Hebdo and all this, there's an intimidation factor here.
No doubt about it, absolutely.
And historically, what percentage usually of a country becomes Islamic before they go from, oh, we're peaceful, oh, we love you, and we're taking over?
Not much.
Ten percent, five to ten percent.
We're seeing it now in France and Sweden.
And they still have very low percentages of Muslim population, but they're increasingly aggressive and violent.
They're growing Sharia enclaves.
Well, Soros can claim that, well, he helped round up people with the Nazis, but he didn't mean to because he was ordered to.
I was ordered to do that.
I wouldn't do it.
But his actions since wanting to overthrow Israel, wanting to overthrow the West, why would he, who's supposedly Jewish and then claims he wasn't a Nazi collaborator?
Why do you think from your research he's funding all this jihad stuff in anti-Israel?
Is he just super cold-blooded once we're all power?
Yeah, I think so. I think he's a socialist internationalist par excellence.
And so he wants to erase borders, erase the concept of the nation state, erase the very concept of ethnicity itself.
So he's sponsoring the mass Muslim migration, underwriting it, financing it, approving of it.
He even bought favorable coverage of it in the establishment media.
And he is trying to inundate Europe and North America with the Muslim migrants who have a radically different idea of how a culture and a society should be ordered.
Oh, I know for a fact he's put big money down for these, this whole thing against me is Soros financed.
I mean, this guy's crazy.
And all these organizations that smear me as a bigot and a hate monger are all Soros financed.
It's all the same initiative.
And what he's trying to do is ultimately pave the way for societal collapse in the West so that a totalitarian order can take its place that is internationalist.
And I guess maybe he will profit from that financially or some other way.
I just think he's completely insane.
Evil.
Evil.
I don't know what he's saying.
If he were insane, he couldn't do this.
He's evil, like Hitler.
I agree.
He just, he's all over my butt.
I tell you, I'm not backing down.
I'm not backing down.
You're not backing down.
Robert Spencer, God bless you.
We appreciate you.
You know what?
I want to put an order in.
You give us your folks.
I want to buy 500 of the book.
I want to sell it at infowarstore.com because they're trying to tell me I can't do this.
They're trying to destroy my life because I'm exposing this.
I don't want the Muslims to reform themselves.
The Christianity and other groups have done.
I want them to, you know, there were prophets in Israel and Israel was out of control.
They'd have to have a reform.
I don't want to say Israel or Christianity was ever like this.
We just absolutely, I'm not their enemy, but I will not roll over and die.
I will not roll over and present my belly.
And we appreciate you, Robert Spencer.
And so I'm going to get your contact info so I can buy 500 books today for infowarstore.com.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you, Alex.
Much appreciated.
Appreciate you.
And I understand for freedom and your courage.
Well, we're all in this together.
God bless you.
Okay, folks, I'm going to come back and get into Trump and his move against Facebook
and others, which has to happen, but the left are a bunch of appeasers and they see Christians
and conservatives and conservative Jews and libertarians is weak.
They see us as not being aggressive.
And so they're running over us and we're going to have to get politically involved.
We're going to have to get politically aggressive to change all this.
But this is just insane asylum.
One of the videos they first took down on YouTube before they banned me two weeks ago
was the Barbie Jihad, where we did the Barbie doll in the Burqa, driving the car and pointed
out she'd be arrested.
They said that we couldn't do that.
I mean, this is insane, folks.
This is insane.
And they're all over videos on YouTube.
Jihad is going to take over America and our women belong to them and all this insane crap.
Okay, I'm going to come back into the big news.
Trump responding to the persecution of conservatives online in the next big move.
And then I intend to have a special guest for like two segments come on.
I didn't even know they had that in the control room.
They're showing the banable offense, the Burqa Barbie.
I mean, women can't drive in Saudi Arabia, but if you're kissing your husband, you go to jail.
We do it in public.
But the feminist is like, ooh, we like it.
Ooh, it's fun.
Whatever, you people are crazy.
That is the feminist.
We'll be right. They just see leftist Western men as weak.
So they get politically together and him peckish.
But then somebody who's going to like put them in a slave factory, they're like, oh, we love you.
Oh, we'll be right back.
Please, however you're watching or listening on local radio, TV or info wars.com,
spread those links that bypasses the censors.
You've been doing a great job, but we got to go to the next level in the face of this.
This is a fight for our lives.
Stay with us.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract,
L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's info wars life dot com.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
In the top 5 or top 10 news feeds, go to info wars dot com for its last show.
Subscribe to the free podcast.
Just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to info wars dot com for its last newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about info wars dot com for its last show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today.
Available at infowarstore.com.
Here's the deal. Israel's got a bunch of nuclear weapons. Israel's not going anywhere and I'm not anti-Israel.
It's been super fashionable forever to be anti-Israel, either your right wing or left wing.
But then meanwhile, we've got billions of Muslims and the left ally, whether it's the Western government, said they're going to bring them in and we're going to have to submit to it.
Any time I criticize that, they go, oh, you're some shill for Israel, whether you have to do with it. But I'm not anti-Israel.
It's just crazy what this has turned into. The real power players is not Israel. It's the EU. It's the Chai comms. I'm going to get into that in a moment.
And what the president's got to do to take action against this. And here's the deal. I should open the show up with a lot of large s.
Hey, the president's listening to us. Hey, we've got a chance to turn this around. Hey, there's a way to stop all the censorship.
I just get so cerebral into all the research before I go on air that sometimes it's just hard to see the forest for all the trees.
God Almighty. The left are just evil people at their controlling level, not their minions, but their controllers.
And then the people that are running the system, that's a large group, know it's all a fraud and know it's all about bad will and dominating and controlling other people.
It's about power. And they know the average person's weak, so they want to grease the skids to make them even weaker so they can control them and then use them as an army to be projected at you and I.
And I'm just not going to sit here and put up with this stuff anymore.
We have a special guest popping in has been on before she's a lovely lady that on a graduating day or they are 15 outside the college and made national news rate activism idea.
She's got a new activism idea but we'll take something right now folks.
The establishment has decided to take me as an example of Americana they see me as Americana and I am genuine Americana.
That are worse. I am a piece of Americana, just like you are.
And they have decided to destroy me.
Politically first and then financially and then undoubtedly physically.
That's that's on their list. They want to get to that last phase first.
Use me all up like they do with kids that kidnap or kids they molest. It's a process.
You think a globalist goes to mall and sees all the autistic kids from the shots and all the brain. It feels bad. No, they feel good.
They're like, I don't know.
Once you get in their mindset, it's like, ooh, they mean business, business, business.
So they're super ultra bad news, super ultra destructive.
And they want total destabilization. So the UN is funding, one with Soros and others, the removal of all white farmers from Africa.
Same reason they funded blowing up Qaddafi and Libya because he was actually a real socialist, which actually works.
If you make people work in the socialist system and only use socialism to direct a huge resource you have into community programs and things that then have a free market side.
And I'm not defending that, but I mean, he spent 99% of the oil money on jobs and infrastructure and real technology and real development.
It's now a total failed state. All of Africa is collapsing. They blew up the engine in the south. They blew up the engine in the north.
And now they can exploit Africa a lot better. And that's exactly what the Democrats do here.
All the cities they control turn into hellholes with a bunch of poor people they control. It's the same microcosm.
They put a bunch of racist, communist, crazy people in charge saying we're going to kill all the white people we're going to take over.
And that was a year ago. Now they've done it. And it's on the news.
They're rioting and killing and killing farmers every day and taking their property.
And the government said, we're going to take your property and then we're not going to let you flee.
It's not like these farmers are living in golden bathtubs or something, you and crystal chandeliers.
I mean, these are really, really hardworking folks. I mean, out there on the edge of existence with King Cobra slithering around and lions and everything else.
And South Africa was like a wasteland in most areas until the Dutch came in and the British Empire came and took it away from them.
But, I mean, he believes in the news today in FullWars.com, NewsWars.com, MasterCard, Forces, Patreon, the Blacklist, Jihad Watch.
All these Jihad attacks happen in Europe and truck attacks and everything else and shots fired at U.S. Embassy.
And, you know, they may stop letting cars drive by parliament in England because of the jihadis.
And you've got South Africa begins seizing white-owned farms, news.com.au.
South African farm seeders begin, chaos is first, exploration of white-owned farms starts, expropriation.
And, of course, they'll all just fall apart. The EFF is in charge, the ANC follows us.
And it just goes on. South Africa farm seeders begin.
British government approves of it.
And you're like, well, why are they doing that? Because they want Africa to totally fail.
Within five years, there's already food shortages in South Africa.
Within five years, there'll be aid programs on CNN saying, give money to ship food to South Africa.
There'll be the image people begging, food, I need food.
And it's because the white farmers are Christians they're able to produce.
If they ever let Christianity take hold there, and ANC tries to stop that, then Africa could take care of itself.
But it's not going to happen.
The UN funded in 1994 killing the Christians in Rwanda.
They were a minority, but they had all the property and all the money because they were Christians.
They worked together.
So they funded the animist, basically worship rocks and animals, who were 80% of the population to slaughter almost every one of them.
And the UN helped do it because they don't want Christians in Africa.
And so the shield of Africa's protection is being removed right now.
And rivers of blood are going to flow.
And the poor white farmers are only the ignition switch. I feel sorry for everybody.
It's very, very sad, very, very evil.
If you look at the Democrat run cities or liberal run cities all over the world, it's always the same poverty, pain, anguish, control.
It's a ritual of control and dehumanization.
We're going to get our guests on.
We're going to get our guests on for two segments.
And then I will.
I spent myself here today trying to get an emergency report to the president and the latest of what's happening.
And it's just so outrageous when we know what's happening.
The Democrats have threatened to take the Internet over.
The big tech companies have rolled over to them believing their intimidation that Trump's going to lose.
And if Trump doesn't act hard on this, which he started to do, they could steal the election.
This is all campaign contributions and kind blocking Republicans banning everybody you can imagine as we speak.
I was just domino number one.
But they've got a special plan for me.
I mean, they didn't write 50,000, 100,000 articles a year to play games with me.
You see them in the news every day.
Jones is running a legal radio station. It's not true.
Jones is destroying evidence.
The whole anti-gun Democrat Party Sandy Hook movement lobbies to get my Twitter, Facebook and YouTube taken down.
And when the YouTube gets taken down and other stuff, it's in court that I deleted evidence and I got to go pay lawyers to deal with it.
That's what I'm like.
I'm waving attorney's fees because you're the parents of the families.
No one's ever done it.
But if you lose the case, you won't have to pay attorney's fees.
And they just went, this guy's a chump, total attack, just everything.
Because it's not the families.
It's the Democratic Party and these law firms.
And I just feel sorry for them, you know, these people, these law firms and folks.
I mean, you talk about soulless, man.
You talk about whacked out.
You talk about deceptive.
You talk about Soros funded.
You talk about Democratic Party supported media supported all of it.
It's just no one's ever seen anything like this.
That's why if you support us and by great products, you know, you already need.
You really stand with us in this critical time.
And so thank you all for the financial support in four store.com.
In four store.com has the big mega sale that ends today.
40 to 50% off and free shipping on all of our best sellers from the fluoride, free colloidal, silver, iodine fortified toothpaste.
To brand force our new tropic to the amazing good halogen X to deep earth crystal sourced iodine to fish oil.
It's ultimate krill oil to the wound care that is so amazing and patented and actually over the counter products.
Strongest silver you can get over the counter.
Alpha power is amazing in four store.com or triple a two five three three one three nine.
I want to thank you all for your support.
Ultimate bone broth is a new even stronger formulation of bone broth strongest out there.
We know of existing.
It's now back in stock.
No reviews yet because it is a brand new reformulated product.
And in four store.com.
It is 1995.
That's very close to the cost of production.
But I got a big huge production of it wanting to be our new best seller since the introductory price of the new ultimate bone broth.
1995 normal discounts of $30 to $40.
Ladies and gentlemen, leading competitors are $50 for the similar product.
1995.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage.
And that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals.
Please consider a contribution.
$25 50 100 to 50 or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey, how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go?
Well, now you could do just that with the new official info wars.
And here's the best part.
It is absolutely free at the Apple store and Google play.
You can join the info war today.
Check it out right now at info wars.com.
The scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to 5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
I'm going to get into the Trump standing up for the web censorship.
This is how we win 2018. It's how we save the country.
It's how we stop the left in their program of bullying and intimidation.
I got to tell you, I knew that if I didn't back down on the Second Amendment, I didn't back down on radical Islam, I didn't back down on the sexualization of children as young as 3 years old.
In these so-called transsexual fests they have at the public schools, at the library, at the hotels, with little kids giving money to men, to dancing, almost naked.
Two-year-olds are doing it. It's heterosexual, homosexual, whatever. It's obscene.
It's been bullying for me to see, and I haven't had the time and energy to really take a snapshot of it, but overwhelming support.
Hundreds and hundreds of millions of views on YouTube of folks on Facebook and Twitter everywhere saying what's happening is wrong.
Tucker Carlson, Michael Savage, Matt Drudge. I can't thank everybody that's come out.
Stephen Crowder, the list goes on and on, but Caitlin Bennett is famous for grassroots director of Liberty, Hangout, libertarian media outlet that strives to bring readers' relevant insight into current events,
as well as promote Austrian economics and property rights and gun rights activists.
She made headlines back in May when she posed with a graduation ceremony with the Air 15 on the campus of Kent State University.
Last week she decided to produce a ship by making some changes to her local Apple store. We'll show you that video when we come back.
On the other side of the break, we're going to break here in just a few minutes, but it's good to have you with us again, Caitlin.
And thanks for your support of M4 as the first member. We're all in this together.
But possible about yourself, what made you just in the last year or so really go public, and you've already had a big footprint.
I think that's what scares the left is. They don't have any real thinkers or activists.
We just have an unlimited supply of wonderful people like you.
Yeah. So I've been doing conservative activism on campus on Kent State campus for about two years.
And the first time I ever did something, I was promoting gun rights and the leftist on campus for, you know, being so tolerant.
They called the cops on me for having an empty holster. We were doing an empty holster protest.
And so I confronted them. I said, what was so scary about an empty holster? And they were so outraged.
They were like, it's what it implies. It holds a gun. I was scared for my life.
That's kind of the state of college campuses nowadays is to be scared of something, even if it just means that, you know, something else could happen or whatever.
So they did that. And then they just kept trying to silence me. I went out on campus with a Trump flag and they tried to expel me for it.
I was in student code of conduct for three times and two expulsion attempts because they did not like my speech.
They tried to censor me. So every time they did that, I just came back even bolder and even louder.
And, you know, here I am today.
Well, you're a microcosm of the whole situation. When we come back, we'll get into what you did at the local Apple store.
That's a great idea. I've actually done that myself when I was at the Apple store.
And even though Android's bad, they're not as slave factory as Apple, so I'm not ready.
We've already been moving the whole office on the PC away from Apple.
But we're going to be launching that movie, you know, that whole move to unplug from Apple, who's one of the worst companies on Earth.
But when we come back specifically at a gut level, I'll just ask you this now.
Do you think this attempt at clampdown and censorship is working? I think it's pissing people off.
Yeah, it's definitely making people mad. And as you can see with how much attention you've gotten from them trying to censor you
and how many more subscribers you have, they just keep shooting themselves in the foot.
It's just like people who threaten me for carrying a gun. They're shooting themselves in the foot.
They're proving why I carry. And, you know, they're kind of proving also by censoring you why we support free speech
and how it's not going to work out in their favor in the long run.
And I think they know that now. But instead of backing down, they're just getting more intense.
I wonder what Pete crazy will look like.
Who knows? I guess they just want an echo chamber and a safe space of just liberal ideologies
so they can talk about, you know, how great socialism is and, you know, all that great stuff in communism.
So if that's what they want, maybe they should go to a communist nation.
Well, I was about to say, if you go to a leftist meeting versus a conservative meeting,
the leftists look like they have had lobotomies and then like this is who's going to rule over us.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
You know, America is coming together and now top directors are coming out saying Spike Lee's movie,
Black Clansman is totally made up. But that's that's Spike Lee.
He's a one-trick pony by Hollywood to create racism and to create division in our country
when Trump's trying to create unity. And that's just a fact.
Our guest, Caitlin Bennett is a second amendment activist. She's a journalist.
She just graduated from college with a famous AR-15 photo that made the left so angry.
They get the fear on campus and they get mainly the video game heads and the shut-ins when the buses pull up
and they get them off and they take them into the dorm and they go,
the KKK's on campus, they're going to attack you.
You're like, but I'm white. Well, don't matter. They're out to get you.
And then they might put a swastika on your door. They do it themselves thousands of times.
You've got the left. They did it to Candace Owens, but she woke up to it.
And this is what you were talking about, the fear on campuses when you were even wearing a holster.
That's how this all started, calling the police on you.
And now they have Play-Doh and toys for all over campuses, all over the country.
If you're upset, Project Veritas has got a video of a pocket constitution.
And then when it's scary, I don't want to see.
And then the professors play along because they want a cat group of people they control.
Speak to someone recently out of one of these facilities in these echo chambers
because they're taking the insanity of these echo chambers and these anti-free speech zones
and expanding it like a metastasizing upside down world, you know, bad science fiction movie.
Yeah. So one of the events I actually did was I created a safe space on campus to mock actual safe spaces.
I upset it liberals, but I also upset it a bunch of conservatives as well.
We got a baby gate and we had Play-Doh, we had bubbles, diapers, and we were basically saying
if you need a safe space from ideas and from liberty in general, then you look like a baby
and you belong in this baby gate and the world lost their minds.
But it's so funny because it's so true. That's exactly how they act.
So because I did that event where I mock safe spaces and I told everybody that they don't need to be afraid
of just having a conversation and talking about ideas.
They came out and, you know, held another safe space to let people know that they're safe from me on campus.
Well, of the thousands and thousands of videos I deleted off of our YouTube with billions of views a few weeks ago,
there's all those I'll enjoy your videos and other videos where everywhere we go, the left will never talk on camera.
And people come home and say, don't talk to them. All they do is chant stuff worse than, you know, the worst eastern cult.
I mean, it is just crazy.
Yeah. So we actually did an event where we held a change my mind type of thing like Steven Crowder does.
It was just we don't believe in gun control. Come change our mind.
And we were filming some of the interviews that we were doing and some of the conversations we were having and my cameraman got assaulted.
He a gun control advocate who believes in peace and tolerance literally slapped my cameraman broke his camera and tried to run away.
So I don't know if people don't actually believe, you know, that these people are so violent and vicious.
It's because they haven't experienced it. They haven't gone out and actually try to talk to them because that's how they are.
That's that's how they truly are.
Also love how David Hawke can call me a con artist and all these names.
But if I even mildly criticize him, they lobby to have my Facebook, which they did and Twitter and stuff shut down.
It's like, he's a God. He's like, you don't talk about David Hawke. He's a God.
I called him twig arms because he literally has the smallest arms I've ever seen on a male.
And he, you know, I got harassed on Twitter because of it.
I said, I'm, you know, mocking a school. See exactly his arms are so small.
I'm getting, you know, I'm mocking a school shooting victim.
But, you know, he can call me racist.
He can, you know, say stuff about me being white and shooting up a school and that's okay.
So, you know, when I tried to confront him, he actually ran away from me in person, which was, you know, a great moment for me.
I've seen that video. Let's talk about the latest video you did that's gone super viral on millions of views on other platforms.
What made you think of this? I think it's a great idea. It's a peaceful, nice way to get the word out.
Tell us what you did to Caitlin Bennett.
Yeah. So I was just at the mall in Ohio and I saw the Apple store and I was with my boyfriend, which is the founder of Liberty Hangout.
And he's like, let's go in there and change all the computers to info wars.
And I was like, should we? And he's like, yeah, let's go do that.
And we kind of looked at each other like, let's go do it. So we walk in there.
And because Apple has terrible customer service anyway, all of their, you know, like hipster looking employees were all talking to each other and they weren't paying attention to me.
So I just started changing all the computers and decided, you know, he started filming a video and I was like, you know, let me say something first.
So I said that because, you know, it's peaceful. It's kind of just a funny way to get back at them for, you know, being so hypocritical and speech and allowing, you know, just racism against whites in, you know, just disgusting speech as long as it's the liberal agenda.
But they won't allow you to speak up your mind. So, you know, I stand with info wars I always have.
And it was just my little way of saying, you know, in your face.
But, but then I saw it with like 700,000 views on Twitter and then ran across on YouTube with half a million and somewhere else hurts like a million.
So it's great little peaceful stunts you do that are changing the world.
And if other people do what you're doing, we're not in competition with each other.
And that's what they can't defeat. And that's why they're so scared. So because of their censorship, call talk radio, call C-SPAN.
Go speak at city council, speak at the legislature, you know, go to town hall events.
All of us have to get involved the next 78 days ahead of the midterms.
Since we mentioned it for radio listeners, I'm going to play the video here.
Folks can hear the audio of your radio listener.
For TV viewers, obviously you're watching on hundreds of TV affiliates that really upsets them.
So they ran that hoax this last week that I was on at illegal radio station and I'd been raided by SWAT teams.
We were off the air and even Brett Bart, Bright Bart or not Bright Bart.
What's a Brett bear? I have that piece coming up. I never got to that.
Even said it. But speak of the devil. Let's just go to this piece. Here it is.
So I heard that Apple Band outshone the influence from their ideas. We just wanted to leave them with a little gift.
Now again, she used that as a prop. Maybe that reached 10 people what she did, but she reached millions after it.
And that's what you use. You use the third dimension as a prop, go out and show people what's happening and put it on the Internet.
It's unstoppable. Amazing job, Caitlin.
Thank you so much. Just kind of the same concept with my photo is I simply took a photo, you know, doing what liberals don't want women to do is arm themselves and protect themselves to where they don't need the government or the state to protect themselves
or to protect them. So, you know, just a simple photo or a simple video.
You can reach millions of people and change a lot of people's minds and, you know, set course for a younger generation to believe in gun rights and the First Amendment.
Because in a world of universal deceit, telling the truth, the revolutionary quote towards Arwell, you know, I think about my three dollars.
And I think about how, you know, I've got them in jujitsu and they know how to shoot guns and, you know, if they needed to, they could, you know, fight their brother.
Not that they fight every once in a while later, their older brother.
But the fact that feminists particularly want to keep women all scared under this weird control and neurotic and the men are the same.
That's not feminine or human or male empowerment. It's a fraud. They want a bunch of de-basket cases.
It's in the WikiLeaks they want that. And I'm just sorry. Libertarian, conservative, just rebel women, whether they're black, white, old, young, they're just 50 times sexier.
Even if you have no woman that's kind of a liberal socialist, they're still so neurotic and have so much to prove that it's like, hey, I got a lot of friends, you know, that go out and date a girl.
They go, you work with Alex Shows on one day. He's like, great, I don't want to date you. A lot of girls want to date him because of that.
But it's like, we don't care. Fine. And I'm kind of glad the left's trying to shun all us now because that means we can kind of start not being with them.
And they need us a lot more than they need, you know, more than we need them.
And I'm talking about the left versus the amount of money and energy that libertarians, Christians, conservatives have.
Right. Well, there's actually a woman who almost got abducted on Kent State campus a few weeks ago.
And so I commented on a post and I said, maybe she should have been able to arm herself.
All of the feminists came out and shamed her for being out at 2.30 in the morning.
So instead of, you know, women empowerment and saying women have the freedom to do whatever they want, which a woman can walk out at night at 2.30 in the morning.
Oh my gosh, stay there, Caitlin Bennett, libertyhangout.org. You just literally read my mind.
I was going to play videos in Germany when women get raped, they say, don't wear short skirts.
Get your Dylan bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
Let's talk tough. Let's talk comfort. Let's talk about down home value made in the USA blue jeans like you wore as a kid.
There's a place down in Tennessee where they make blue diamond gusset jeans. They so pride in every stitch guarantee you love the way they fit.
They put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most. Blue diamond gussets got it. Others don't.
Get old fashioned comfort. Get diamond gusset jeans. Every stitch guaranteed.
And our Defender motorcycle jean comes Kevlar reinforced. See them at gusset.com or call 888-848-7738.
Diamond gusset jeans got it. Others don't.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products. That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the powerhouse Kreglenone product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included. A powerful Kreglenone base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow infowars favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your Ramonte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost edit. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to a frontline report.
You are listening to an infowars.com frontline report. It's Alex Jones.
Seriously, they're trying to shut me down all I care about is humanity winning because I'm the opposite of a sociopath and I've got my sins. I've got lust and anger and things like that. A little bit of slovenliness here and there.
But at the same time, I really see humanity winning as me winning. So it's like a, like a narcissism, but where you see other people's success as your success and the globalists just think I'm an idiot because of that.
They think I'm a moron, a chump, but when I see other people like Caitlyn Bennett and Paul Joseph Watson and countless others out there and our own crew and the great work all they're doing and the reporters like, you know, Savannah and Rob doing everybody else.
It makes me feel so good to be in this society with you. And they're trying to kill our society.
That's why we've got this vocal thing. It's an okay chat room system. People got a register for it. It's got a AI sensor thing on it that we don't even control. But, you know, people are signing up and using it.
But that's why they took away disgust from us. It's why they take almost everything away that works well because major news sites are getting rid of their comment sections because they don't want you to feel like you have any power.
But whatever you do, get involved, get vocal, get involved. Don't feel like you don't have power because you do.
Now, next segment, I'll be honest with you. I can only keep my energy level up.
And then if they get me barbecue at lunch like they just did, which needs to stop, I feel like I took 14 tranquilizers or something, which is good for me to relax sometimes.
But the news I've got so earth-shattering, it's like the Death Star plans. I mean, we know how to beat the globalist. We have it. The president's listening.
And then I'm sitting back and it exhausts me actually to go, wow, I should have opened the broadcast up with this. So I'm going to do it next segment.
But it's just really heavy stuff. And it's so important to secure your own family's future. And everybody knows it's not hype.
Why do you think the globalists are so angry at me? Because I studied history books and I've had thousands of guests on that are smart.
And I've studied the globalist on statements. I know how to beat them. You know how to beat them. They don't like the fact that we've got a relationship.
They want to get in between that. But we are so close to victory. We're also so close to defeat.
So Caitlin Bennett, I want to thank you for joining us. We've got about six minutes left.
I just wanted to give you the floor to cover whatever areas you wanted to get into. I'm just really, you make me feel good.
Seriously, when I lay my head down on the pillow at night, even though they're able to shut me down, down the road, because I'm on a whiner about it.
But they've hurt us pretty bad. That just seems to encourage them. And a lot of smart folks say, Jones, don't tell them that's happened.
But all I can do is tell the truth. So yeah, they've crippled us. We've got a lot of new viewers and it blew up in their face.
It didn't go like they thought, but it's the stuff you don't know behind the scenes that, you know, they're bad folks.
They're real bad. Let me just tell you that. So I need everybody's prayers, but you specifically, and all the young generation I see,
it seems like half the millennials want to be communists in polls. But what about the other half?
And then Generation Z, they're saying it's like 79% pro-life and anti-communist.
So it looks like nature's got a weird way of working. What do you think is really going on?
So what I think is going on is my generation, especially on college campuses right now, it's so different than what a lot of older people remember.
Like I said, they have safe spaces now. They hand out pamphlets about, you know, being anti-Trump or anti-conservative.
They literally ask you to churn in students for committing hate speech.
So if someone offends you on campus, you go to a faculty member or even student conduct and you churn in this person and give them their name.
And they can either be reprimanded, expelled or suspended. It's crazy.
So what we have to do as young people, my generation still on college campuses and even younger, when you get to college campuses,
you have to be, you know, just have the motivation, have the confidence to go out there and stand up for what you believe in.
If you're conservative, I know that it can be so, you know, scary and hard and intimidating to go out there and say your beliefs.
But trust me, once you get out there and do it, it'll feel so good.
It's so nice to be able to stand up for what you believe in.
The first thing I ever witnessed on a college campus was the Black Lives Matter group on campus,
ruined a festival we were having on campus by blocking out where everybody walked.
They literally blocked it like they block highways and they did this on my campus.
It took me hours to get into Trump's inauguration and the New York Times looked at me in my eyes and said that didn't happen.
Even though it was all over the news.
Yeah, I mean, it happens. I've seen that on Facebook and on the news and everything, but when I got to college and I saw it happening,
I kind of turned to my friends, I was like, oh my gosh, this is real.
Like they really block people's paths to go places because they want attention and they want to push a false narrative that blacks
or people of color are being targeted by police or even by, you know, gun owners, which that's simply not the truth.
The statistics are not on their side at all.
Surely expanding on that though. I mean, if you look at what's happening, they know it's about power.
They're training you to accept their power. I don't care about black people. It's all led by weirdo white people.
I don't want to put white people down. It just is. It's like most serial killers are white people.
I mean, white people aren't our good ways or bad ways, but statistically they got some problems.
Every other group has its own weirdnesses, let's just be honest.
But it's a bunch of weird neurotic white people's what I've learned who just want power because they never did anything in their lives,
but they just sit there in these weird institutions and try to make you submit to them.
Right, absolutely. And I love it that I didn't listen and I love it that I have a lot of people on Kent State campus that I was able to influence to not listen to them either.
I had to sit through so many professors of telling me why I should support abortion.
I was in architecture class and he was telling me why I should support abortion and I'm like, what does this have to do with the Taj Mahal? This has nothing to do with any architecture.
And, you know, I was the only one that said something against it and everyone just sat there and took it.
So, you know, we can't take it. We have let them dominate the conversation for a while now and they have definitely tried to dominate the conversation about gun rights on college campuses.
Oh, this is true authoritarianism. Let's play famous Melissa Klick at Missouri State that lost 30% of its enrollees after this.
Shane, because a white guy who goes to school there is actually Asian, isn't allowed to come. He says, get me some muscle.
This is who's running Google, Facebook and Twitter. Here it is.
I made it. Can I talk to you?
No, you need to get out. You need to get out.
No, I don't.
You need to get out.
I actually don't.
Hey, you want to help me get the supporter out of here? I need some muscle over here.
So, it's all about them carrying out violence and then we can't even politically speak out.
That's what it is. Let me ask this final question. I want to have you back soon.
Very impressed with what you're doing at libertyhangout.org and all the work you're doing.
Thanks for supporting InfoWars.
What about people that don't even call themselves conservatives that are just common sense or pro-free speech or classical liberals?
Because that's more of what I've always been is just don't give me a label. I don't care what somebody's doing in their bedroom or whatever.
I'm not obsessed with that like they are. It's the thing of like they're always in my face.
Like what do you call it? I don't want to be an occult.
Right. So, I think a lot of people who are in the middle that don't really subscribe to either side,
they kind of find themselves, I believe, being pushed towards the more right-wing side
because they see how crazy the liberals are acting and how crazy, you know, college campuses have become.
So, I mean, with them acting so crazy like that, it works in our favor just like we talked about before.
I've seen so many people say, you know, message me, you know, I'm not really that big on gun rights.
I'm kind of in the middle about gun control, but seeing all the death threats that have been thrown at you
and how many people just insult you, not even on your beliefs, but on your appearances
or, you know, just the way you look and the way you present yourself, I have become more prone to gun rights
than a conservative ideology. So, they're kind of...
That's amazing. Caitlin Bennett, thank you so much.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon?
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking
and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
Made in the USA, it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the info work. It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
Patriots, stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America
to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfoWarsLife.com.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfoWarsLife.com about Winter Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit InfoWars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Patrick, in the great nation of Australia, you're on the air worldwide. Thanks for holding.
Hey, Alex, mate. I've been following you since I was 14, and I'm 32 now.
I remember back when InfoWars and Prison Planet, it was just blue text on a white screen
and it had to load down the page on my dial-up into there.
And I thought it was pretty cool. I've read all the books and seen all the DVDs
and followed all your guests, and I've been using your product since the first iteration of Survival Shield.
And since then, I'm on the X2, the Super Male Vitality Decay Man, the Real Red Pill,
Micro ZX body. It's all amazing. Thank you, brother.
Yeah, and I wanted to say that by following you so much, it's like you're just detoxing the mind,
you're detoxing the body, you're detoxing the spirit.
And it's just the more you know God, the more you fear God, but the more you chase God.
And I wanted to say that it's an un-understand side-by-side with you, the crew,
and the listeners out there, 1776 worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The Alex Jones show because there is a war on your mind.
You are watching or you are listening to either live or later on a podcast or a video somewhere.
It's the most restricted, most banned, most attacked radio slash TV news program in the world.
I don't say that with a lot of pleasure because it's not a fight.
I asked for it's a fight that I was basically commissioned into by my conscience.
But here we are, ladies and gentlemen, and we face the future.
We face fulfilling our own destinies.
I have seen in my life everything I've been through,
everything God has allowed to happen to me as preparation for now where we are.
And I've seen the hand of God in things.
I know God's real.
I know Jesus Christ is real.
And I know that it's real for thousands of reasons,
but particularly because of how the enemy and the globalist attack it and how they want to destroy it.
And so I know that if I follow my spirit, if I follow my instincts, if I follow my discernment,
that whatever happens, whatever God's plan is, I can't figure it out.
But in the end, in hindsight, I go, God, that's incredible.
That's God.
When we say God, that's not blasphemy.
That's some Baptist church telling that to make you guilty of their Pharisees.
You go, God, when you see a beautiful vista on the Rocky Mountains of the Grand Tetons or your child born,
you go, God, you say, Jesus, your heart means you love God.
You're saying God made this.
Now, if you say curse somebody in God's name, and that's using the Lord's name in vain,
using God's name to curse somebody in the name of hurt this person, that's black magic.
Even if you're using God's name.
If you order God to do something in God's name, you don't order God to do anything.
You say, God, whatever you think the better plan is, whatever there is,
but if you could squeeze my kids in and protect him, please do it.
If you can't understand, that's how you really pray to God.
You don't tell God what to do.
You just say, help me.
I'm weak. I need help.
Please give me guidance.
Please direct me.
You don't tell God what to do.
But I know in these trials and tribulations we're going through right now that I feel the closest to God I've ever been.
And I wouldn't really do anything different than I've done it because I can see the hand of God even on my mistakes.
That's like in pool, they call it English, you know how to hit a ball and make it spin and go in a different direction and hit another one.
It's like I've done stuff that I didn't do.
And it didn't seem like at the time it was making sense that I was asking God to literally, I just go with my discernment.
Even if it doesn't sound right.
And the more I do it, the more the enemy hates me.
The more I just go with what my spirit says, the more the enemy just goes, this guy has to be shut down because
God doesn't take over your free will.
You have to give your free will to God.
And I've done it to a great extent.
I'd say I'm like 90% turned over to God right now.
I'd say most people who even try maybe you're half and I'm not bragging.
I just know I'm really turned over.
And it's like the understanding opens up so big.
That's why you read like in the Bible people say, God just take me home.
I just want to be with you who are super awake because they've already got such a massive understanding that they don't want to be here anymore.
They're not suicidal.
It's that they've already seen so far and so much that nothing on this earth matters anymore, but their children and their souls.
And it's the souls of the people and the souls of the children that we've got to protect.
This earth is an amazing creation of God for us to live on in this experiment, but it's only an experiment and a test for us.
It will perish. The earth will pass away.
It's like an egg passes away when an embryonic bird grows in it and it uses its egg tooth to crack out of it.
And in fours is like the egg tooth.
I don't even know everything on the other side.
I just know there's a bigger picture.
And so I'm like trying to get us out.
You're trying to get us out.
We're pecking on the egg.
We're pecking on the on the shell and we can already see light.
But there's a spirit that wants us to die in the egg and never go to the next level.
They want us to die in the cage, die in the cave.
And I can tell you it's not going to happen.
A large measure of humanity will go to the next level.
I just am not like a eugenicist who gets on a power trip about others that fail and feel big because they fall beside.
Because just because you can understand this and then decide to try to control it, like we're about to be incredibly powerful.
We're way more powerful than a human was a thousand years ago.
Not physically, but technologically.
So just because you have glimpsed human potential means because others don't, you're going to dumb them down so they don't get the future.
That is an elementary failure.
The future is unlimited. The infinity symbol is unlimited.
And you don't grasp infinity unless you realize that everyone can be part of infinity.
It's a very low level, third dimensional, second dimensional thing competition.
But the enemy tries to take competition out so that people are basically stunted and controlled so that they can compete and suppress you.
But once you compete to a level breaking through that, then you realize that it was like training wheels.
And now it's not even about competition.
It's about can you embrace?
Can you even begin to imagine the mind of God?
Like, can you interface with this?
And maybe you could take power on this level, but can you take power on the next level?
Because you think you're not a Satanist at this level, but how about you experience this?
And you think that would be like women or palaces or no, no, no.
It's not having your planet wiped out.
It's suppressing other groups and controlling them so that you can survive.
See, that's a glimpse of the next level.
And turning loose and letting your entire species be wiped out because God told you so.
But then right like that, you're resurrected in the second and already back.
And that's just a, that's not even wisdom of God.
That's more like low level soul staring up from the third dimension to the fifth, sixth, seventh dimension.
And like beginning to try to even understand the mind of God. See, because it's an endless fractal permutation
of mathematics compressed and then released and big bangs and implosions and just exploding and exploding
over and over again to even understand that the main driver is total free will.
But how do you exercise free will in a way that doesn't hurt others?
And that's a big question.
So I said, I get to all this news and I'm sure it's coming up with a loaded barrel.
And I, you know, you know, you think I'd be all ramped up the president responding to us and putting out little messages.
You know, the New York Times pointed out, this is an exact Alex Jones quote in the last, last week.
Well, of course it is, but it isn't like Trump needed to like plagiarize me. You don't even get it.
The point is, is that you think I'd all be amped up by that and like ready to go into the next attack.
But it's not even like that.
So I need to play Brian Stelter. I need to play this Mark Dice piece, but it's very hard for me to look at Lester Holt or him.
It's not because I hate him.
It's just, can you imagine the generations of people they came from?
All their souls are lost.
I mean, these are generational demons, man.
These people are gone from birth. They're gone.
You know, when you look at them, you realize that they are the black model.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage, and that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists
and destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Now, take them on the globalist at point-blank range, and with your help spreading it,
we are unstoppable.
This is the verboten info. This is what they don't want you to see.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word. You are the info ward.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to,
the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the renaissance and we are winning.
I remember when, I remember, I remember when I lost my mind. There was something so pleasant about that place.
Even your emotions have an echo in so much space.
When you're out there, and when you're out there without care, yeah I was out of touch.
But it wasn't that I didn't know enough. I knew too much.
I just knew too much.
Does that make me crazy?
Does that make me crazy? Does that make me crazy?
Maybe it does. Listen, I hadn't had time to watch a lot of the pro-Alex Jones videos.
So I was so busy trying to keep us on air and battling with all the other attacks and I'm not complaining.
But I asked for this. Let me tell you, it's been intense. They're hitting us on every front.
A lot of stuff I can't get into here on air. But thank you for your prayers and your support.
But then, this weekend, I spent some time, because my girls were with their mom for a few days.
And I went and saw the folks that were supporting us and Mark Dice put out like 10 videos.
I watched them all. He's so talented. He's so funny.
And I have a real problem. Like, Lester Holt lied about me and the video that I really said. It hurt so bad.
Not that he was attacking me, that he is such a liar.
Because, you know, Lester Holt's a pretty good anchor. I mean, he's a likable guy that I couldn't even on air play the clip and show him to be a liar.
It's like, I'm just sick of it. I don't know how to explain it. I just can't even defend myself anymore.
They're just liars. Stelters a liar. They're all liars.
There's a certain point when they say that Trump, throughout the Martin Luther King bus, fine, he did that. You got damn liars.
Excuse me. I don't mean to take Lord's name in vain. I'm sorry.
The point is, is it pisses me off, man. I'm sick of how these people just lie their asses off all day.
And at a certain point, I don't even want to respond to them anymore.
They took down my YouTube. They blocked my Twitter. They deleted all our stuff.
And then they filed a lawsuit against me saying I destroyed Sandy Hook evidence.
When they're the ones lobbying to have my damn channel taken down 35,000 videos.
And it's just that they're so corrupt. They hurt me that they're so bad.
It's not that they're hurting me. I can't believe Brian Stelter is such a degenerate liar
that let your whole reading off that sorrow script from media matters.
But man, they all did it. But it made me feel good to watch Mark Dice.
I sat there Saturday morning and watched like eight or nine videos.
Those he bore, I didn't watch. That's why I just said 10 or maybe more.
He fully, even though you get blocked off YouTube, he defended me.
And what matters is he has courage.
And it's just so good to see somebody that he just sold out.
Makes me sick.
Makes me sick how they lie.
It's not about me. It's just that, you know, man, they had the Daily Show say that I am the KKK
or not the Daily Show, whatever Colbert's show is that NBC ABC. I don't know.
I played last week. They got some TV show on HBO where they say I'm a said that Jews didn't die in World War Two.
And it's just like, I never said that. And why do you think you'll get away with it, man?
It's what I'm telling you is the lies are 10 times worse than ever.
I don't know what they're planning. I do. They're planning to overthrow Trump.
They're planning to cause civil war. They're planning to do everything.
But I don't want to run stuff, but let me tell you something.
I'm not going to be run by these people.
That's all I'm saying is I'm sick of it. I'm tired of being a lot about.
I'm tired of them a lot about America. I'm tired of them a lot about you.
And I'm sick of their crap. And I just want America to wake up in the world to wake up.
And it's happening. That's the goodness.
And to watch them triple down quadruple down, couldn't topple down, infinity down, lying.
It's just like, why do I got to respond when they tell some big ass lie? Well, I got to.
But at a certain point when somebody's told you 10,000 lies, you stop listening.
And after that, people start getting in trouble.
Lester Holt, I didn't call for violence. You liar.
And if you're going to say I did, you show the proof.
You don't accuse me of something. I'll show it.
And how much do you insult your audience that you post crap like that?
Yeah, I can't play the Brown Stilted Claw.
He just drives me crazy, man.
The God, he's like a vision hell.
He could be a star in the next Hellraiser, man.
That dude's bad.
My whole genetics, every cell goes.
When I see Brian Stilted just goes.
Every ancestor, every cell I got, my spirit says, man, that dude is bad news, baby.
And not because he's powerful, but because he's weak.
He's so tuned into evil.
He's like the definition of a sack of evil.
And I love it.
He's so tuned into evil. He's like the definition of a sack of evil.
And a liar that perches up there and says he controls our free speech and he's in charge and he's my God.
I'm not your slave stulture. I'll never be.
But I know you want slaves because you're so fallen.
Look at that evil creature that will serve the dark side.
Let's go to, let's go to part of Dice's report. Here it is.
NBC's Lester Holt is pressuring Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to suspend President Trump from Twitter for violating their terms of service
because he called Amarosa, the former White House staffer, now selling a fake book about her experience in the White House, a dog.
The president of the United States yesterday called a woman Amarosa that dog.
Would that violate your terms of service?
So we do have a clause within our terms of service around public interest and around newsworthiness.
We believe it's important for the world to hear that Amarosa is a dog and even CNN's April Ryan calls her a liar and says she's evil.
We believe it's important for the world to hear directly from global leaders how they think and how they treat the people around them.
You don't make a distinction.
So we do make exception. You don't make a distinction however over policy talking about taxes or tariffs versus calling a person a dog.
We make an understanding of who is actually saying that and whether they are a global leader or whether they are a public figure.
So NBC News is trying to make the case that the president calling someone a dog or anyone calling someone a dog on Twitter is a violation of the terms of service.
And Twitter hall monitor, CNN's little Brian Stelter, tatted on President Trump for his tweets about North Korea before that whole situation thankfully got smoothed over.
In fact, I've asked Twitter spokesman, does this violate Twitter's terms of service, making this kind of threat towards North Korea so far?
No immediate comment from the company, still waiting to hear.
I think they're trying to decide if this kind of tweet referring to a nuclear button that he knows how to use and it works, whether that actually is a violation of their terms of service.
And speaking of Twitter's terms of service, they've now suspended Alex Jones for one week for supposedly violating them.
As I'm sure you know, it's the only major social media platform that hasn't completely banned him.
But now he's on a seven day time out for tweeting this tweet, Trump must take action against web censorship.
Of course, CNN has been cyber stalking Alex Jones for months, completely obsessed with getting him banned from the entire internet, tattling on every little tweet.
And here's NBC's Lester Holt, pressuring CEO, Twitter Jack Dorsey, to completely ban him from the only remaining platform that hasn't.
Alex Jones on Twitter posted this week, what essentially is a video calling for people to get their battle rifles ready against the media, saying it's time to act, it's got to be done now, move criminally against people.
Send a chill up my spine, how about yours?
First of all, you don't have a spine.
And second of all, I'm going to have to watch that video for myself because I can't trust a single thing that NBC, nothing but crap reports on.
It's time politically and economically and judiciously and legally and criminally to move against these people, it's got to be done now.
It sounded to me like he just said to act politically, judiciously, economically and legally against the system that's trying to bring down this country and our freedom of speech.
When he used the word criminally in his list of tactics, he wasn't encouraging people to commit crimes like Lester Holt is claiming.
He meant the criminal justice system to indict the criminals, the saboteurs and the deep state leakers.
Saying it's time to act, it's got to be done now, move criminally against people.
They want Alex Jones deleted from the Internet so bad YouTube may take this video down and issue me a strike just for talking about him like they did to the H3 podcast channel.
That's good.
Go to markdice.com.
He's been truly on fire lately.
He's always on fire, but he's like inflago, inflago, inflago.
And I feel good knowing Mark Dice is there because we're going to make it through this together.
You know, I didn't even plug products this hour and they're trying to shut us down. Please go to infoworkstore.com.
Get our t-shirts, get our books, our big sale ends today.
It really makes me know we can move forward if we're ever bringing the funds in.
But here's the big deal.
I'm just going to the end.
I'm just going all the way to the end so that's what matters.
And it's a big experiment.
It's been amazing.
But thanks to all of you where we're standing up at the front lines gets the big demons having a big effect.
So we'll be right back with one more segment as far as coming to take over.
You know it's the fourth hour and you know it's the war room with Roger Stone and so much more.
We'll be back in FullWars.com.
Spread that link.
They hate it.
The real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen.
Our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products.
The Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process
with an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, can quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract, your Ramonte leaf extract
and more, you can get that extra pick me up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 Plus products, we have it InfoWars Live.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The Real Red Pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the Pregnantone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, a super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the word.
And again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Old L.C. Hastings.
Old L.C. Hastings.
Remember to Congress.
Comes out and makes a joke about Trump dying.
And it's all cute and funny.
Like all the Democrats calling for Ivanka Trump to be kidnapped and raped or Baron Trump to be kidnapped and raped by pedophiles by Peter Fondac.
It's all cute and funny.
But then just saying that I claimed that there was all this violence planned and that I was planning to do all these things.
And I was going to kill all these people.
And I had battle rifles.
There's no clip.
There's no tweet.
There's no nothing.
They just say it because that's who they are.
They've been lying so long.
It works.
Why not keep going?
So let's go ahead and go to this Congressman, you know, this guy that's partly establishment,
virtue signaling to a bunch of narcissists that are at some stupid Democrat event about how they want Trump to die.
Here it is.
Do you know the difference between a crisis and a catastrophe?
And no one held their hands or any answer for us.
He says a crisis is if Donald Trump falls into the Potomac River and can't swim.
And he says, and a catastrophe as anybody says is that.
So you got a billion and a half Chinese slaves.
You've got people under total globalist control and you've got all these spoiled rotten brats bitching and complaining that there's somebody trying to bring jobs back and turn the country on.
Here's this flashback.
It's up on info wars.com from earlier this year.
Soros back groups gloat over colluding with big tech to censor conservatives.
They tell their shareholders, they tell people to donate.
Don't worry.
We're going to shut them all down.
We got America in our crosshairs and they're going down big time.
Well, we've got news wars.com.
We've got info wars.com.
We've got prison planet.com.
And we're just here trying to tell the truth.
Let's go out with creepy realistic humanoid robot footage since shivers through Twitter.
It's up on info wars.com.
And it just shows what the establishment is breeding, but it's creating that will follow all its orders.
But I'll tell you, mechanical isn't as powerful as genetic.
And it's the biological androids.
It's the humanoids that they've already created the cross species.
You name it.
The real issue.
So let's go out to break with some of this.
Here it is.
So that abomination is not the issue.
The issue is that the establishment is telling you you're ugly.
You're done.
It's over.
Go crawl in a hole.
Die.
The future is coming.
Humans are extinct.
Roll over to whatever it is they're trying to build.
That is the main issue is that the last thing for these billionaire corrupt pedophiles is human extremism and dominating you and your family.
And so their religion is ending human biological systems, taking full control of the planet and playing God.
So there you're sworn enemy.
I would take heed to that and be aware of it.
All right, folks coming up.
I want Troyer in studio locked and loaded with bear.
And whatever you do, whether they're however you're listening on TV, radio or local internet, spread those links.
It makes George Soros and other Nazi collaborators comebacks so angry.
We're only 78 days off from the election, 78 days from history.
Now's the time to hit those afterburners.
Please stay with us.
Remove 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current run down systems.
It's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today.
So here's the deal.
Right now you have the radical left being led by the Democrat Party threatening conservatives, harassing conservatives, assaulting conservatives.
You wear a Trump hat, they'll rip it off your head, light it on fire, spit on it, throw a drink at you.
And somehow though, while the Democrats are saying tell them they're not welcome, push back, create a crowd, inciting this violence,
the media goes on air every day saying Trump supporters are Nazis, racist white supremacists, bigots, Trumps are Nazi, he rapes women.
All the nonsense, this all comes from the political left in America.
And then somehow, while engaging in all of that nefarious activity, they have the unmitigated nerve to point their finger at Donald Trump,
the 45th president of the United States, at the American people that support Donald Trump and at anybody who is right of Stalin,
they point the finger and they say, you're being violent, you're inciting violence, you're being divisive.
And then as soon as they're done telling you how violent you are, how divisive you are, they then go, I don't know, throw a drink at a lady wearing a Trump hat.
Go out and spit at someone that has an info wars mic.
Maybe you're in an Antifa group, you want to go burn a car, smash windows.
So I go out this weekend where there was a march for peace against political violence organized by some local groups and some national groups.
There was also one in San Jose and elsewhere.
There was one in Seattle, there's footage of that too.
I'm going to hear some of that on the war room today and Will Johnson is going to be joining me here in just 30 minutes to discuss what he witnessed at the same event against violence on the West Coast.
How is it?
I mean, this should have been in the Twilight Zone.
I guess the reason why they had to retire the Twilight Zone is because we're now living in the Twilight Zone.
So it's not as interesting now. See, real life is now more interesting than the Twilight Zone because I live in the Twilight Zone.
But how is it that they're able to get away with being violent, being intolerant, being divisive, lying just about everything?
They just lie about everything.
What? Oh, they lie about Trump.
They lie about Trump supporters.
They lie about the election.
They lie about Russia.
They just lie, lie, lie, lie, lie.
It's all they do.
And then they call you fake news.
They spit in your face, shove you down, silence you, muzzle you, and then say, look at you, you violent, intolerant bigot.
You're a white male.
And they're able to get away with all of it.
Or how about, what is fascism?
What is fascism?
Well, let's see.
Here in America, you've got tech giants, Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, Google, Apple, they can share.
They basically make up about 90%, we're being conservative here, 90% of the web traffic goes through those sites
and 90% of online marketing goes through those sites.
When you have that much of a stranglehold on the market, this is why we have antitrust laws in this country.
But so that's what you've got, Google, Apple, YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook all working together to silence political speech.
And if you really understand fascism, even then you might be able to get away with saying, still free market.
Oh, but wait, nope, because guess what, the Democrat Party is involved.
Who do you think is telling Facebook and YouTube and Twitter to silence Alex Jones, the Democrat Party?
So when you have leaders from the Democrat Party that are in Congress calling on the tech giants that make up 90% of online market shares
and you're telling them to silence an individual or to silence a certain point of view, you are now engaging in fascism.
That is the textbook definition for fascism right now happening in the Democrat Party and in the wings of Twitter and Google and Facebook and Apple and YouTube.
And it's all going on right now.
But just like how they get away with violence and point the finger at you and say you're violent, just how they get away with rigging elections
and then say you rigged an election, just how they get away with being racist and then claim you're a racist, they get away with fascism and claim you're a fascist.
But I've actually found the answer to defeating Antifa, believe it or not.
I have actually discovered the answer to defeat Antifa.
And you might think that I'm just here doing a radio tease, which I am, but I actually now have the formula to defeat Antifa.
But you're going to have to wait till Will Johnson joins me at 2.30 Central to hear it.
But I actually now know how to defeat Antifa.
And it's amazing how it went over our heads for so long, but it was so obvious.
So when Will Johnson joins me from United America first at 2.30, I am going to announce how to defeat Antifa.
Now, in the meantime, obviously, we are under enormous attack here at Infowars.
And thanks to your support at InfowarsStore.com, we're able to operate Infowars.com, Infowars.com slash show, InfowarsStore.com, NewsWars.com, Infowars.Europe.
I mean, it just goes on and on and on.
And it's all possible with your support at InfowarsStore.com.
Let's see here.
Last day, last day, fight the bullies, save the Internet, save Infowars, super special.
This is the last day for some of these specials, 40% off Brain Force Plus, 50% off all Super Blue products.
Guys, let's check that out.
Look, 50% off all Super Blue products.
Now, you've got mouthwash, you've got toothpaste, and you've got the immune gargle, and it's all 50% off right now.
All of it, 50% off.
These are household items.
Everyone has mouthwash, everyone's got toothpaste.
Why not go to InfowarsStore.com and get the Super Blue Complete Combo Pack for 50% off right now.
You're saving $50 on that right now at InfowarsStore.com.
But seriously, I mean, that's like the easiest way.
I'm assuming everyone here brushes their teeth.
So that means I'm assuming you wear or you use toothpaste when you're brushing your teeth.
So, hmm, everyone uses toothpaste.
Everyone brushes their teeth.
Let's see.
Here's a radical idea.
Let's sell toothpaste.
But wait a second, let's take it one step further.
Let's remove the poisonous fluoride from the toothpaste and then sell it to you with the added beneficial ingredients,
nascent iodine, and colloidal silver.
Oh my gosh, genius.
Then let's sell it at 50% off.
That's what we'll do.
And that's how we'll have victory.
So that's what we do.
50% off Super Blue fluoride-free toothpaste right now at InfowarsStore.com.
But you know what?
Don't take my word for it that your toothpaste has poison in it.
Just flip your tube around, read the back label, and it says harmful if swallowed.
Contact poison control if swallowed as 0.014% fluoride in it.
Harmful if swallowed.
But when they put that much in your drinking water, drink away.
It's free.
The government loves you.
So this is Owen Schreuer, posting the fourth hour for Alex Jones here.
Is that Russian propaganda I see?
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
For more information on Sunny Bay heating pads, go to www.slingbow.com.
We knew it was coming. The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize Info Wars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that,
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
Then two weeks later ban Info Wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top 5 or top 10 news feeds.
Go to InfoWars.com.
Subscribe to the free podcast.
Just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and give us your email so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com forward slash show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
InfoWars Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today. InfoWarsLife.com.
It is the Alex Jones show. When I conclude the fourth hour here of the Alex Jones show, I hop over to our other studio and host the war room from three to six p.m.
Central weekdays with my co-host Roger Stone. Looking forward to that, got some big news coming up there.
I've got my secret on how to defeat Antifa with Will Johnson coming up in the next segment.
But glad to announce here for all Alex Jones fans and listeners of this broadcast and fans of InfoWars.
Alex Jones will be on Coast to Coast a.m. with George Norrie this evening or this morning, depending on where you are located on the world map.
Coast to Coast a.m. with George Norrie featuring Alex Jones tonight. You're not going to want to miss that, George Norrie.
One of the most class acts in radio is George Norrie.
And if you're into the paranormal or the weird, and George has even kind of tied that in with politics here lately.
Coast to Coast a.m. is a great source for information and very entertaining talk show that's been around for a long time.
One of the biggest in the world, folks. And tonight Alex Jones goes on with George Norrie.
So be sure to tune into that. We thank George Norrie for always standing up for truth and free speech in America.
Now, I'm sitting here in the break just racking my brain because in the last segment I mentioned some of the double standards that we're seeing of the left
and some of the violence that we see coming from the left while they say, oh yeah, Trump's the one causing the violence.
Oh yeah, it's Trump supporters getting violence. No, no.
Breitbart.com has the rap sheet. Actually, it's 555. I believe it's up to 555 documented. This is documented cases of assault and harassment on Trump supporters and media.
And if you go ahead and look at some of the most recent ones up there, guess who you're going to find? Your boy.
So I thank Breitbart for including the harassment that I've received. They even give info or some mention on there. There you go.
They put the wrong date on that one. That was actually back in December of last year when Antifa was holding guns to me at the park.
And then, of course, I was in Antifa or I was in Portland. I guess they could rename the city of Portland to Antifa. It'd be the same thing.
And they were harassing me. And guess what? I've got more coming.
They spit at our female reporter, Savannah Hernandez. They spit at our other female reporter in New York. They spit at our cameraman. They spit at me.
So I've got other well-documented cases that I'll be submitting to Breitbart's rap sheet. Don't you worry.
But we're still waiting. Man, I've been waiting so long. I've grown a beard.
I've been waiting for CNN or media matters or even the official Democrat party. I've been waiting so long for them to put out a list of all the violence against them, all the violence against Bernie supporters.
If you wear a Bernie hat, you get assaulted and harassed. Haven't seen that. All the violence and harassment against Clinton supporters yet to see that.
No violence against the liberals out there. It's always the conservatives. So what are they complaining about? Where's the list? I'm growing a beard out here.
Now, this is a tweet from Brandon Lewis, an individual I met this Saturday at the March for Peace.
So he joined me out there and he got flipped off, called the Nazi, fascist, white supremacist, all the other insults. And he documented here in some images.
Go ahead and flip through those. And you know, I just want to say this too. It's just incredible to me. Yeah, you might want to remove that one, guys.
I don't know if you saw what was in that picture. There's a naked woman. So, yes, Antifa now shows up naked women.
I'm not even going to make the old school rhyme, school nursery rhyme joke about what that woman could have thrown over her shoulders.
But I just want to show the picture of me with the Info Wars fan before that that that Antifa walrus invaded the frame.
So can we go back here? Hold up. Let's go back. I want to show the picture of the actual the actual nice young gentleman that I met this weekend.
If we could just flash that image. I just want to flash that image because so there it is. Thank you.
Now this is after we have to censor out the Antifa walrus that shows up naked.
So I can't even I can't even go through. I can't even go through full full video and pictures of these people on air without properly vetting and censoring and blurring out anything I have to.
Did you guys see that back there? Did you take a second? Look at that.
Yeah. How does the old rhyme go? Yeah, there's the Antifa walrus. Yeah, she's not putting rifles over her shoulders, folks.
Oh God.
Okay. Will Johnson joining me on the other side. This is what we're going to talk about though. This is what we're going to talk about because we'll witness this.
But I'll tell you what, here's what I've realized. There's there's actually two ways we can defeat Antifa.
And I'm going to get into it on the other side with Will Johnson, but it's more it's honestly more important now than ever to go out and document these events.
We have to go out and document these radical crazies out in the streets. That's how we're going to take this country back. That's how we're going to win the midterms.
I mean, think about it, folks. This is honestly a new phenomenon and I'm not trying to sit here and pat myself on the back because, you know, people like Mark Dice have been going out on the streets and making liberals look stupid for years now.
I mean, has anyone ever actually gone out there and challenged them on their beliefs? Did anyone actually go out there and force them to try to explain their politics on camera before?
And now look how far it has come where people like Fleckis talks are some of the most popular channels on YouTube and all he does is stick a microphone in the liberals face and he gets millions and millions of views and he changes the world.
And so I'm telling you, like all you have to do, we can't do everything here at Infowars, folks. We need you. Go out and film these loons.
I'm telling you, you'll get you'll get thousands of views on your YouTube channel. You'll out the radical left for who they are. I mean, look at these people.
Exactly. The crew can't even show my video from this weekend. I told the crew, I was like, hey, let's roll the video when I have Will Johnson on that I shot from this weekend.
It's like, OK, well, do you want the audio of the video? I'm like, well, you can't play the audio. If I was to play the audio, it would sound like this.
That's what it would sound like. You'd have to censor the whole thing because these people are so foul mouthed and disgusting.
But now I realize, I can't even air the tape here because we're on terrestrial television and satellite TV. I can't even air this tape because there's actual nudity.
These people are now showing up nude, folks. They've gone totally mental. But I'm telling you, you have to show America that we're actually being invaded by these liberal zombies and scare people to go vote Republican.
I'm no Republican, but the Democrats can't win.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad. Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us. That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find sunny bay heating pads on Amazon. Just go to Amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads.
You realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos, you are changing the world.
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWars.com because it works so well.
If you use a gift, you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLive.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain. It's for sports. It's for activities and it's made in the U.S. today.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLive.com. Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically-studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
So this weekend, there were nationwide marches against political violence in America.
Now, it just so happens to be the fact that these marches were organized by conservatives, patriots, and Trump supporters.
Go figure, the left didn't want to organize a march against political violence.
Wow, I guess they'd be marching against themselves.
So, in response to the marches against political violence, which is actually a march against terrorism,
because terrorism by definition is political violence, but the left didn't want to engage in this.
Instead, they showed up to the march against violence nationwide.
I was in Austin. Will Johnson was in San Jose. They showed up to the march against violence.
And guess what? They got violent, they got crazy, and they were rude, disrespectful.
So I am joined by Will Johnson, who was in San Jose, witnessed this for himself.
And Will, I would imagine, we talked on the phone Saturday night.
I would imagine that you would pretty much say the same stuff here today that they showed up and they were just crazy.
I mean, they're just crazy at this point. It's like we're actually dealing with total brainwashed zombies at this point.
Is that what you experienced in San Jose?
No, 100%. It completely shows how these people don't think for themselves.
And then when you have people such as yourselves and myself, like Candace Owens, people think for themselves, they get upset.
They don't like the fact that people are not paying attention to the lies that they've been told for years after years.
And this is the time, it's so amazing to see all these people show up and hate us and want to be violent towards us
because we want to get rid of violence. That doesn't make any sense.
How does that even happen when you get people, well, I don't like what you're saying.
I want to be violent towards you because you're saying stuff that's peaceful.
So I'm going to be mean to you and I'm going to call you all these hateful names because I don't like it. It's ridiculous.
Well, there was a time here in Austin on Saturday where the people marching against violence are marching towards the Capitol building
and Antifa is standing right there and Antifa starts chanting cow words, cow words, cow words.
And so I went up to them and I said, well, wait a second, why are you calling them cowards?
Are you out here challenging them to a fight? Like, are they cowards because they don't want to fight you?
Like, that's the thing, they're out here marching against violence.
So it's like, they're now admitting, they're now out of themselves like, yeah, we're going to be violent.
We're going to show up, throw explosives at you, throw explosives at police, try to insult you, try to assault you.
Oh, and then by the way, we're going to say you're being violent.
Yes, you know what? People are starting to see the absolute truth from the left and what's happening.
They are want to be violent. When we left the rally that we were having, we had to get a police escort.
And when we were leaving, we now one time that we go look for Antifa, but they spread out in little pockets to try to follow us.
And the main reason why they want to follow is because they want to get a license plates on a vehicle so they can doxx us and try to figure out where we live.
So they can come in and torture us and try to antagonize us at our homes.
That is their goal. And people are starting to wake up because we're exposing it to them.
You know, we shouldn't have to be able to leave a rally and have to have a police escort.
We should be saying, okay, we're done. Everyone was peaceful. We should be able to be able to go on about our way.
But you can't do that because the left, they're bringing the violence. They are the ones who want to be violent and have the nerve.
It's kind of like, you know, when the first African-American went to a public school, the young girl, how the left showed up them and were harassing her and the police had to escort her.
It's amazing how that happens again. And I'm going to say this now. I haven't broadcast this over InfoWars airwaves.
And I don't want to give out too many details, but what Will is saying is actually more correct than folks even realize until you have to deal with this.
Now, I've been doxxed before. I've had people threaten me before. I've had people get my private information before.
But this was the first time this Saturday. I had an individual to my face threaten my family.
And I'm not going to go into details, folks, but had exact details on my family and made a direct threat to my family with personal details to my face and said, we're going to burn the house to the ground.
They said it to my face. That is domestic terrorism right there. This is what they're doing now, Will.
Yes, you're absolutely right. And you know, they're getting all of that from the Democrats, Maxine Water.
When she came out and said that when you see people work under the Trump administration, she wasn't eliminating to the Trump administration.
She was basically saying anyone who supports the president, that goes for you, goes for Alex Jones, myself.
The millions of us that support the president, when you see people out that support the president, they're basically saying attack them.
Look how they did Candace Owens and Charlie Kirk. They were at a restaurant.
People outside the restaurant screaming on bullhorn, screaming at the restaurant at Candace Owens on the inside.
And instead of the restaurant calling the cops on the people being destructive outside, they asked Candace Owens and Charlie Kirk to leave.
See, it's a completely different backwards world here. It's upside down. It's crazy. These people are demonic field. 100%.
Okay, so that exactly will. Now, this is where I want to get into my teas and we'll go with it now.
I now have the formula to beat Antifa, okay? Now, this is a two-step formula.
Now, the first step here, Will is highlighting here when he talks about these people. These people are demon-possessed.
And I am totally convinced of that now, where you go look at Will's footage too, all we have to do is walk into a group of these leftist protesters.
Just show up. You just walk into a group and the demons come out. They cannot help it. The demons come out.
They start screaming and frothing at the mouth and yelling and the anger and the hate in their eyes and in their soul.
Our presence lures these demons out and then they expose themselves in our presence. It's unbelievable.
So we need people to go out and film it, Will. So that's step one. Pick up a camera phone and just wear a trumpet, wear an America first shirt.
Just do something. Step into a group of these liberal protesters and watch the demons come out. You will expose demons.
You're absolutely right. You know what? I designed t-shirts like the one I have on now. Vote them out 2018.
I recently created a new one and it's with a robot on the front of it and it says, I am not a Russian.
That one triggers liberals so much. I had a lady in Walmart decide she wanted to run me down in an electrical wheelchair that she was in
because I said I'm not a Russian. So all you have to do is put a yes.
Someone tried to run you over in an electric wheelchair at Walmart?
Yes. She wanted to run me down. It just so happened to be that she was an older white lady.
I don't know why they had to have anything doing anything, but it's just the point that she was upset because I said I am not a Russian,
meaning that I support the president and it's not a Russian bot that's doing it.
See, that's it exactly. Imagine if you would have happened to film that and caught that on camera. Boom, viral video. That's what I'm saying. People.
Exactly. People. I'm telling you, wear these shirts out and film these people. They trigger the demons. This is not rhetoric, folks.
There it is right there, man. That's it right there. People need to see it. These people are demon possessed.
All right, here's the next step. Now, this one's a little trickier and I might get some backlash for this, but I hope people see the foresight here in the troll.
We now have to join Antifa and take it over. Now, let me explain this. I am anti-fascist.
Google, YouTube, Apple, Twitter, Facebook are acting with the Democrats as fascists. I stand against fascism. Who's the fascist?
It's the Democrats, Apple, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook. They're the fascists. I stand against them. Now, people think, oh, well, we can't join Antifa.
They're violent. No, let's join Antifa. They'll quit. If we take over Antifa, they'll quit. Well, I started chanting their famous chant here.
Apparently, they don't do it on the West Coast. It's coming there maybe soon. That's what they do here in Austin. I started chanting it with them.
They didn't do it again the rest of the day. I'm telling you, if we go into Antifa and say we're anti-fascists, we're in this with you, they'll all quit.
Yeah, you're probably right. They'll probably quit because then it's not working. It's like when someone's constantly calling you a name and then you just join in with the name calling on yourself, then eventually they stop.
But you notice how many conservatives have you seen go up to YouTube and shoot up the place? How many? People need to ask that question.
How many Democrats have been shot at? How many Democrats had their neighbors beating them up?
Exactly. How many Democrats have been pulled out of a vehicle because of your complexion and beat-up?
About using a word that's used to insult you to ruin it, I believe the origination of that was actually the inward. Remember that? Remember how that worked?
Off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowords.com, the Forzline Show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link or whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowords.com, the newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowords.com, Forzline Show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowords.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clear, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
That's infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage, and that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals.
Please consider a contribution. 25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey, how would you like to take infowars with you wherever you go? Well, now you could do just that with the new official infowarsend, and here's the best part.
It is absolutely free at the Apple Store and Google Play. You can join the infowar today. Check it out right now at infowars.com.
And with your help spreading it, and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
Years ago, infowars life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
From the infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show. And now your host, Owen Shroyer.
Will Johnson is my guest here for the final segment. We were just talking about our experience over the weekend at the march against political violence that the left showed up and protested, shocking.
But I want to go into a different subject here as we have Will with us for the final segment. I want to play a video that Will put together and put on his YouTube channel, Unite America First.
Now, this video should be seen 20 million times. That's how powerful this video is.
So I want to amplify it by playing it on our platform right now. It's titled Being Black in America. And it's a great allegory for what it's like now if you are black and you want to have, well, let's just say be a patriot in America or think for yourself or have your own political values.
Look at Will Johnson's Being Black in America. He starts off. He's roaming through the woods. He's walking through the woods. He seems tired and distressed. That's a little worried.
And now it flashes as he's now running through the woods away as men are chasing him. This is Will Johnson's Being Black in America. Just providing commentary to the radio audience as the video is rolling.
Will Johnson playing the black man running through the woods as two men are chasing him wearing army fatigues.
They finally chase him down and the two white men in fatigues are now beating him, putting him in a headlock. It's time to take him in. One of them got free. That's what the Democrats said. One of them got free.
Now they're beating him up in a cell type situation as he's tied down to a chair. Will. Will. White people don't care about you, Will. They're your enemy, Will.
It's not true. They're your enemy. It's not true. Whiteness doesn't care about you, Will. It's not true. That's what we think. Your president's racist, Will.
I think it's a lie. He hates Mexicans, Will. It's a lie. Blacks, you're a traitor. You're a race traitor. You're a coup.
What you had to do was do what you're told, Will. You can't eat shit. It's all lies. He's brainwashed.
You think we're gonna let you walk away? Will, we need your vote. Wake up! We need your vote, Will.
Bill Morris. Gavin. Your next vote. Claim allegiance, Will. The Democrat Party needs you, Will.
Never. Never again. Claim your allegiance to the Democratic Party, Will. No. He's not your president. Yes, he is. We're here to help.
Give up, Will. Give up. We gave you a chance, Will. Pronounce Christ. Never. Never. Religion won't save you. We are your religion.
Super Coney had a chance.
So there you go, ladies and gentlemen, from Will Johnson. And very powerful because it's just a perfect analogy of exactly what's going on right now.
So, Will, what made you think about putting that video together? What was going through your head? What was the idea when you began working on that video?
You know, I've been thinking about doing that video for over a year. And it really came out when I went to different rallies like Berkeley and different marches that was in support of America and in support of our president.
When I used to be a Democrat and I would have conversations with people on the right, they never called me the N-word. They never called me these despicable, hateful, racist names.
It wasn't until I became a conservative that I started getting all of this hate coming at me. And it just really put the nail in the coffin that I was on the wrong side when I was a Democrat.
And just so much hatred and so much violence towards people who love this country and respect the president. And as a black man, it just reminded me what happened during the time of slavery and right after slavery, after the Civil War,
when black people started voting. This wasn't anything uncommon. This would happen. And it wasn't just black people that they were torturing. It was also white people because white people were helping black people be free.
So they killed more white people during that time than they killed black people. And a lot of people don't even want to recognize the history of it.
So it's been on my heart for about over a year to do that short film. And it actually came out better than I thought. And at the very end of it, I don't know if you played it, there's actually a part on there.
And it says, Russia did not participate in the making of this video. And it's in Russian. So we purposely did that just to spark interest and make people think.
Okay, you're telling me you added Russian media to your broadcast just to troll the liberals? What? Because I know they're going to look at it. So I wanted them to see it just at the very end.
It says, yeah, it was not created by Russia. Wait, wait, wait, wait. You would add Russian media or Russian art to your broadcast just to troll the left. You're telling me you would stoop to those levels?
Oh, absolutely. Because people need to wake up. People need to wake up to the truth. Russia had nothing to do with it. Let me ask you a question. Did you vote for Trump because you saw a meme? And if you did, why would you admit to that?
No, in fact, it's kind of like the whole Antifa thing now. I'm not a Russian bot. Yeah, you have to clarify you're not a Russian bot before you vote now or do a YouTube video.
Well, actually, you know what? Let me say this. I know you're not experiencing it right now because of what Facebook did to Antifa Wars. But on Facebook right now, they're making people such as myself verify my country.
And I have to do it constantly. So I go in and I verify that I'm a U.S. citizen, that I'm in America, California, and then a couple of days later it'll pop up again asking me to verify my country.
And they tell me that I have until the 28th to do so. Or they're going to stop allowing me to post.
Have you ever logged into Facebook or used Facebook outside of the United States?
No, never. Never. So never asking that question. So it's bringing me to the question of why. I mean, I've already made it clear I'm not a Russian bot.
You know what it is? It's propaganda to brainwash the dumb Facebook users out there. They see that they're like, oh, wow. Well, this Russian thing must be real. Facebook is cracking down.
Yeah. And how many, once we join, I'm going to join with you. I'm going to join Antifa with you, okay?
Yes!
So once we join Antifa.
I'm telling you, that's their favorite chant in Austin. Once I chanted that with them, they never chanted it again. I'm telling you, we have to steal it from them.
It's just like what you said. Why did black men in America start using the N-word? It was to goof the white men that did it first and say, look, it doesn't bother us anymore.
That's the same dynamic we should use to Antifa now.
Exactly. You know one thing you can sing to them when they're like really just trying to get under your skin and it's not working, but you can reverse it on them? Just start singing to them.
Just start singing, hush little baby, don't you cry. Trump's going to sing you a lullaby.
Oh my gosh. That's good.
They were handing out binkies. They were handing out binkies in Austin. They had binkies and bottles and little rattles.
If you sing because they're acting like babies, just start singing it, hush little baby, don't you cry. Trump's going to sing you a lullaby.
No, no, no. I just figured it out. I just figured it out. So I don't know if Soros isn't funding these people enough money, I think that they could maybe get a corporate sponsorship from Babies Are Us.
Maybe.
Maybe start approaching Babies Are Us.
Maybe. Yeah. I heard Tom Starr is investing in Antifa as well.
Oh yeah, yeah. He gave like $2 million or something.
Yeah, so since we're joining Antifa at Tom Starr, when you watch this, we need our checks.
Oh my gosh. Yes. Yes, exactly. Where's my Soros money?
Ah, Antifa. We need our checks.
We are Antifa now. We stand against the fascism of the Democrat Party with Apple and YouTube and Google and Facebook and Twitter.
We stand against fascism. Yes, we are Antifa.
We stand for right. We stand for our freedoms, our loyalty to Antifa.
That's right. That's Will Johnson. This is no employer. This has been the Alex Jones show. You stay classy, Info Warriors.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Wars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver Immune Gargle, only available at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
