The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
President Trump, we are almost to the halfway mark, and by all accounts you've got to double
down.
It's blatantly obvious to most Americans that Congress isn't a bipartisan democracy.
Congress is actually two corporatic wolves fighting over what's for dinner.
We see their culture of corruption, cronyism, and incompetence at work.
People say it's because the Democratic Party, which you are a leader, has no message.
Your only message is anti-Trump.
No, that isn't true.
First of all, let me just say, these are four races we would never have chosen to go into.
They were chosen by Donald Trump.
Please, God, let Nancy Pelosi continue to be the voice of the Democratic Party for the
midterm elections, because it's the best thing that the Republicans could possibly
have.
And all we need to do is take her words, put it on television, and play it over and
over again.
The Democrats are already circulating a list of 100 potential investigations of the Trump
presidency to fuel the frenzy in their base.
Axios reports that some of the investigations based on requests for inquiries made by Democrats
while in the minority include President Trump's tax returns, Trump family business, and whether
they comply with the Constitution's emoluments clause, including the Chinese trademark grant
to the Trump Organization, Trump's dealing with Russia, including the president's preparation
for his meeting with Vladimir Putin, the payment to Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels
and James Comey's firing, the same monotone nothing burger investigations that have attempted
to suck all of the air out of the first two years of the Trump presidency, but failed.
Made in America is back.
Now some people would say made in the USA, I personally don't care.
The fact is we're back.
We have 400,000 new manufacturing jobs.
Our opponent said that could never happen.
It has happened and we're going to develop a lot more in a very short period of time.
So made in the USA, made in America, it's back.
We all know they're simply trying to distract from the potential firing of Attorney General
Jeff Sessions and Faisal Rat, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who have stalled on
a motherload of investigations that could force a seismic shift in the district of criminals.
Congress is now split into two camps, pro-America and pro-Deep State.
The threat of Sessions firing brought the Deep State defenders out of the woodwork.
Bizarrely, there are people in this body now talking like the Attorney General will be
fired, should be fired.
I'm not sure how to interpret the comments of the last couple of hours, but I guess
I would just like to say as a member of the Judiciary Committee and as a member of this
body, I find it really difficult to envision any circumstance where I would vote to confirm
a successor to Jeff Sessions if he is fired because he's executing his job, Jeff Sessions.
Would you try to help him with that?
No, because he would have a nightmare on his hands in politics.
It's very, very different in politics, Anna, than it is in business.
If Jeff Sessions was the general counsel for the Trump Organization, it's a totally different
set of personnel decisions than if Jeff Sessions is his cabinet member.
And there are those that have begun to grow a spine.
And I think there will come a time sooner rather than later where it will be time to
have a new face and a fresh force at the Department of Justice replacing him before the election.
To me, it would be a non-starter, but the idea of having a new Attorney General in the first
term of the President Trump's administration, I think, is very likely.
I understand the President inherited a system that likes to give no one anything.
I often say that the most highly classified thing there is anywhere in Washington is embarrassment.
This Attorney General, unfortunately, has been disengaged for his entire tenure as Attorney
General with the exception of his work on bringing down the gangs and enforcing our immigration law.
They have allowed all the crimes against Trump, all the crimes against America,
all the illegal spying, all the illegal warrants, all the fake Russiagate garbage.
They've indicted three members of the House to try to win the election for stuff that's
not even criminal, flying their daughter's pet rabbit, buying members of the staff dinner
on campaign funds, totally normal, when Obama laundered $84 million. It's all unfolding.
As evidence on Hillary continues to pile up, like it recently did after judicial
watch uncovered even more fumbling with our national security, it is abundantly clear
there isn't any justice being... That's right, we'll be back. Stay with us.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit,
and flax fiber. Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed
good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality,
organic, and clinically studied ingredients. Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at
the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by
the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones.
As you've probably heard, recently many of the biggest tech companies joined in a coordinated
effort to censor content from broadcaster Alex Jones. They're never going to remove him.
That's crazy. That's too far. This isn't about Alex Jones. This is about freedom.
Trump's election and Alex Jones's popularity are merely symptoms of a corrupt and failed status
quo. You have about 800 million followers. That's why you're banned. Social media censorship.
Virtually every day the big tech companies censor someone else whose political opinions they disagree
with. Facebook censor office speech and saying all the ones that don't even see that we have been
censored. For many on the left, the views seem to have become that if you can't beat them,
prevent them from speaking. They broke their algorithm to try to steal the selection.
Now they're down to the last corners of the internet. Oh no, conservatives can speak to
one another. We must shut it up. People know what's true. They can smell it. You can't stop them from
knowing that. This is an emergency transmission from deep in the heart of Texas. U.S. resistance
against a global corporate combine empowered and funded by Communist China, allied with the
big megabanks that set up Communist China in 1949. The Communist Chinese have taken control of U.S.
telecommunications infrastructure. The Communist Chinese have taken control of Hollywood. The
Communist Chinese have taken control of the main universities. This is all confirmed. This is not
a drill. Big tech in Silicon Valley is almost completely run by the Communist Chinese government.
They've officially become state-run. Apple 100%. Google is now making the transition
and announcing a merger in total worldwide censorship. They are now beta testing using
me as the straw man. A demonized version of Alex Jones to do that. This is happening. This is not
like the other probes before that were meant to get you used to probes and censorship, thinking you
would adapt to censorship by just putting up with it. Now this attack is thousands and thousands
and thousands of times the magnitude of all previous attacks. This is a titrated dose reverse
psychological warfare operation using adapt and overcome subversion paradigm manipulation.
In layman's terms they are manipulating the fact that we adapt to being oppressed. We adapt to
being pressed with the low dosages of oppression. Now when the megaton hits us of the total takeover
we try to adapt to the poison infusion instead of not knowing it's a lethal dose if we accept the
dose. Total Internet of Things integration global social score complete command and control system.
It is the virtual reality AI weapon system now attacking the United States with traders inside
the major security agencies blocking Trump's resistance of the program and attempting to stop
us from removing the tentacles of the chai comm slash big tech begging combine emergency situation.
I have been chosen for destruction because I brought you this information and have been battering
ramming it out as much as I can. They want to double use me as they always do in any complex
system of mathematical deception where every angle of my good is turned against us. So they take what
I've said being sincere build me into an insincere person in the straw man. I'm a person that cares
about life and children and is against these wars and so they make me a herder of children and then
they build me into this line to then set the distraction while they're actually censoring
all of you to make a debate about Alex Jones. So even if I didn't sell out to them they now use me
as an archetype to serve them by being the main distraction. I have now been captured by the enemy
in the information warfare fulcrum has been used against you only your full understanding of this
team will break you free from this paradigm. I have given you the transmission now break free.
I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the
mind of man. Thomas Jefferson. 69 days. 69 days. Huge breaking news coming up but first this is
why they hate us. This is why they want to shut us down. Certainly for some Alex Jones can be scary
and abrasive. But if you can get through all that to explore what he's been saying to see for
yourself what it is that the establishment wants to hide from you and the information you find
could be life changing. He predicted 9-11. And if there was an outside threat like a Ben Laden who
was a known CIA asset in the 80s he's the boogeyman they need and this were welly and phony system.
He exposed the cremation of care ceremony at Bohemian Grove.
He educated us about the relationship between the third Reich and modern
globalist prison planet dominated by a ruthless gang of control freaks. He helped reveal the so
called Bilderberg group at all. And most of you are a bunch of stinking parasites.
He was the loudest voice reporting on the union between the communist Chinese and Silicon Valley.
They falsely edited him. They lie about his reporting of Sandy Hook.
They lie that he pushed a child down in a viral video.
And now he is being deplatformed by Facebook, Apple and Google.
Private companies are being harassed and encouraged to stop doing business with him.
And then we get hit and say you no longer use our software.
YouTubers are being censored for talking about him.
We just got taken down by YouTube. They just killed our stream.
Really? Yep.
And some Americans are actually celebrating this.
This is America in 2018.
Will you sit by and allow liberty and freedom to be taken away right before your eyes?
Will you do nothing while history is being recorded? Will you sit and do nothing?
Or will you do your own research, discover the truth and stand for freedom?
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
I'm standing in this briefing room right now. There is no government official here.
But I'll say that the press is not the enemy of the people.
But I'll say that the press is not the enemy of the people.
The press is not the enemy of the people.
The press is not the enemy of the people.
They came in peace.
Maybe we should go out on Pennsylvania Avenue.
Like these folks who chant CNN sucks and fake news.
Maybe we should go out. All journalists should go out on Pennsylvania Avenue
and chant, we're not the enemy of the people.
We're not the enemy of the people. We're not the enemy of the people.
We're not the enemy of the people.
This is CNN, and this is the Info War.
Paul Watson has done something very, very special that he and I worked on yesterday that he hammered out this morning.
And if you want to win the war against the globalists, if you want to defeat the New World Order,
you want to flood every talk show with this, you want to flood the White House,
you want to flood every member of Congress and every member of your state legislature.
It is now being reported by Politico.
The President is looking at Sherman Antitrust Act Section 2.
Unfair trade practices, discrimination, racketeering.
Oh, and I forgot, lying to Congress.
They had the Presidents and Vice Presidents of the tech companies said that no one's being shadow banned.
We have executives from those companies caught on tape saying it is,
and I'm told more tapes are coming out,
but everyone held back so they could lie to Congress.
Reports on InfoWars.com.
Oh, and it's coffin nails to tyranny.
The social media purge of conservatives is a giant election meddling scheme.
If you want to defeat the globalist, you go to InfoWars.com
and you hammer this report out to the four corners of this planet.
It's like the one you're listening to.
It's like the one you're listening to.
It's like the one you're listening to.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does,
you're going to love the Dillon Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to 9
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy.
The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later,
we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our Pollen Block chewable tablets.
InfoWars Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known
to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture fluorolife
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products. You get them separately or together
and make really, really big savings and get high-quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
Sixty-nine days, ladies and gentlemen.
Sixty-nine days until the most important election in world history.
The planet is at a crossroads.
It is undoubted.
The globals are trying to shut this nation down.
We are struggling as hard as we can to expose their operations.
It is a neck and neck battle, ladies and gentlemen.
Neck and neck.
All right. Coming up next segment, I am going to get into information
that is just staggeringly important to the future of this country
and at winning these midterms and the fact that the Democrats are trying to manipulate
the outcome of the election.
And I'm going to go through the fact that we should be rejoicing
that it's an amazing, amazing time to be alive right now
in that Trump is awake to the censorship, to the total attack on our free civilization,
and it's fighting back, and you're fighting back in this broadcast
and dredgereport.com.
This broadcast, our audience who are activists and dredgereport.com,
we're the only group in a prominent way in the last year
showing how InfoWars was being set up for takedown
and that everybody else would be taken down right after us, which is now happening.
So thank God for that, and our prayers are definitely being answered,
but God helps those that help themselves, so thank you all.
We're not over the hump yet, but we are rolling this boulder up
and you can see the top. I mean, this is a big, big deal.
The main article I'm going to read is on infowars.com.
The social media person conservatives is a giant election meddling scheme.
Now, I know you know that, but the public is slow to pick up on this,
and it's massive, it's coordinated, and they've all perjured themselves to Congress
because we have the WikiLeaks with Facebook and Google colluding for Hillary
and saying they delivered the election to her.
And then we have them lying about shadow banning and lying about everything else,
and they're still doing it.
And now the CEO of Google is refusing to testify, so that's all coming up.
But first, I didn't get to this yesterday, so I want to air it now because it's important.
It's Mark Penn, political strategist and pollster,
warned Silicon Valley censorship to have big influence on the elections.
You're like, that's Tucker Carlson. You're like, Alex, we know this.
I know, but the president watches Tucker Carlson, it's having an effect,
and now the media is trying to spin it.
The controlled media that Trump's crazy, that's the CNN headline here today,
Trump conspiracy theory thinks the news is gamed and Google manipulates search results.
The first 20, 30, 40 pages are nothing, but anti-Trump, anti-Alex Jones, anti-America,
anti-… telling us the economy isn't good, you name it.
I mean, it's crazy.
And the president is absolutely right about this in a big way.
There is debunking Donald Trump's latest conspiracy theory on Google.
Even CNN reporters that have called for me and everybody else to be banned,
that they don't agree with, then the same reporter the next day writes articles saying,
we're insane, it doesn't exist.
To just change the subject back onto is it true, is it happening?
Remember all the years, oh, there's no world government,
oh, there's no plan to break up the family, there's no plan to do this and that,
and then you'd have all their documents, all their admissions,
you'd have them at UN meetings admitting it, EU meetings.
It's crazy.
I mean, this is like going to the zoo and you see an elephant and you go,
there's an elephant and your parents go, no, you're a conspiracy theorist.
You're like, well, that's big ears, that's a trunk, it's gray, it's walking around, it's big.
That looks like a tiger over there, it's got black and orange stripes
and weighs 1,000 pounds or whatever and you're like, nope, nope, it's not a tiger.
Go ahead and climb in there and grab by the tail and see what happens.
But I want to play this Tucker Carlson piece right now,
really uninterrupted because it's so important, here it is.
I'm fascinated by the Alex Jones story because it was Alex Jones.
Almost no conservatist rose to his defense because the idea was, well, Alex Jones, ew, yuck.
It's not really about Alex Jones, is it?
It's about the idea that companies can make it impossible for your voice to be heard.
Is that a precedent we should be comfortable with?
Well, I really think you have to be worried about big tech becoming big brother.
Yes, because these used to be neutral platforms that said,
we're open to free expression, that's our core value.
And now they've said, well, not so much.
With particularly Facebook hiring 10,000 new censors on top of another 10,000
and having roving, censoring bots looking for content.
Look, I never read Alex Jones.
But here's somebody with millions of followers, publicly accountable for his speech,
operating within Supreme Court standards, yanked from the media.
That's a surprise to me.
That says that these platforms are no longer as open as they presented themselves to be.
And it's not just him.
There are many like him who've been yanked, lesser known.
But still, so this has political implications.
You ran and managed campaigns for so long.
This must have occurred.
A lot of our political debate takes place on social media platforms.
So if they clamp down on one side of the debate, why wouldn't that influence an election's outcome?
Well, obviously it could have a big influence on elections.
Increasingly because where people turn for their news is that they look at the news feeds
that are run by the major social media companies.
And so they're more powerful than any TV station, more powerful than Fox.
Yes, they are.
Because of the amount of time that people spend.
And it's a funnel.
So if you're not at the top, you don't get seen.
And so in the past, they had some neutral ways of doing this.
But now they've increasingly applied still more mysterious algorithms plus individual sensors.
And remember, their private platforms, they say, so they're not, they're not actually subject to the First Amendment
unless we get some legislation here that says free speech is an internet right.
It's totally meaningless.
If I own a toll road, I can't say any one of a certain race can drive on my toll road.
And so they're not actually fully private companies.
We have a public interest, I would say, in keeping them free and open.
Why aren't, if you cared about the integrity of our elections, why isn't Congress acting?
I don't know why Congress isn't acting.
Part of it is because to stand up to a social media company means you could have five million people on your doorstep the next day.
So I think there's been a lot of intimidation in Congress instead of bipartisan agreement that, hey,
we cannot have this kind of regulation of speech where whoever runs one of the big platforms can pick out speech,
which speech goes and which speech doesn't.
Not when they've been exempted from the libel laws, when they've been set up as open platforms,
and they now become media companies instead.
And that's exactly what's happened.
They become media companies that take ads on the media that they run, and they have editors and algorithms and bots that run it.
I really believe that 10 years from now, this segment, what you just said will be seen as pression.
I think it's a big story that's being ignored by virtually everyone for reasons I don't fully understand.
Maybe you're right, it's cowardice, but it shouldn't be.
Mark Penn is a former top strategist for the Clintons, and he's a classical liberal.
You heard him say, Jones is held to the standard. You can take him to court.
But he's being selectively hit, and it's setting the precedent where they have their cake and eat it, too.
They say they're a big platform, like a commons.
They say they're a monopoly.
They're given that protection under federal law.
The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, Safe Harbor, DMCA, a bunch of other things.
I know I live under it within FullWars.com.
We're commenters on the FullWars. I'm not libel for what they say.
So they're now, though, having their cake and eat it, too.
And they're having all these former Democrats come in and censor and control.
Then what they do is they build a straw man of what I've said, that, ooh, it's this Alex Jones. Yuck, he's a bad guy.
And then smother the real Alex Jones so I can't respond to what they're doing.
And as Tucker said, what you just heard was pure veritas.
That's what's going on, and it can deliver 5 million votes easily to the Democrats and steal these elections
for the illegal aliens, folks voting on the names of dead people. This is the 2018 issue.
If Trump doesn't get on top of this, we're going to lose.
We're good old fashioned comfort. Get Diamond Gusset Jeans.
Every stitch guaranteed. And our Defender motorcycle gene comes Kevlar reinforced.
See him at G US S E T dot com. That's gusset.com or call 888-848-7738. That's 888-848-7738.
Diamond Gusset Jeans got it. Others don't.
You are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clear. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
And you're part of the products.
Stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are. And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limit a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
We knew it was coming. The whole thing was for me leg. First demonize Info Wars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that,
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then voila, two weeks later ban Info Wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com forward slash show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info. This is what they don't want you to see.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones.
The tree to the ground and shut it from the sound. The death machine ain't slowing down. It's gaining powerful power.
All right. There's a way to beat the globalist, but people have to be serious. They have to be adults. They have to know what's going on.
And they have to understand the true criminal nature of the Democrats and the foreign corporations and the communist Chinese that empower them. These are the most psychotic, sociopathic, vicious, hateful, dishonorable, dishonest, truly wicked people who hate America
and hate your family and just viciously have a total will to dominate and run your life.
They are eugenicist to destroy the family, to make you totally depressed, to take everything away from you and then put you into a virtual reality where they can steal your soul.
They are completely turned over to what can only be called the devil.
Whether you believe in that as a spiritual force or an archetype, it's real. It's going on. They're setting a world government plan. They're bringing in a one world government mark of the beast with digital control where if you don't play by their rules you have a world social score
and then you are devalued on that social score until you starve to death on the street and everyone else shuns you through peer pressure and you starve to death.
That is now being announced by Facebook that they are launching the communist Chinese social score.
I was the first person in modern history on a wide scale who was prominent to be shadow banned and to have the western governments promoted as a good thing and then to be completely deperson.
First they demonized me to set the precedent, to build a straw man to get you to go along with it so that you would shun me and then as soon as within a week and a half of people not raising a big alarm except for Matt Drudge and Tucker Carlson and the president
it happened to tens of thousands of prominent people and now it's being reported millions of conservatives, libertarians, nationalists. You can't say something pro-Trump. You can't say something pro-gun. You can't say something pro-America.
Night circuits ruled you can't wear American flags in public schools on the west coast. They mean business across every level. So they're here. The mark of the beast is now here.
World government is now here in your face with a scientific one world system using a digital mark of your internet ID that will be biometrically based on face scans and hand scans.
Mark of the head, mark of the hand. Two thousand years later, coming true. No one can deny it. Prophecy is being fulfilled.
And it also says the church will fall away and will accept the mark of the beast. Most people will accept the mark of the beast because they'll believe that it isn't actually happening.
Because the churches aren't churches. They've been federalized. They've been globalized. They've been put under 501c3 so they won't tell you. In fact, I predict soon the people will be taking communion and giving to the offering plate with a hand scan.
Mark my words. Within two years, you will see people. In fact, I bet it's already going on. I never thought of that.
The church engine, church takes digital payments with biometrics. The people will go into church and they'll go just like at the airport. Everyone's being conditioned to do it.
Sweden now to get on public transit, people are taking microchips to get on buses and trains. Soon they're saying that's the only way you'll be allowed to get honest with that.
Oh, it stops all the crime. Oh, it's a great thing. ABC News, CBS News, NBC News are all, hey, everyone will soon have a mark.
Everyone will soon have to put down their hand or have a face scan to buy or sell.
Facebook is using face scanning for a decade now all over the country to tie it into your bank account to control everything.
Google, the driverless cars, robots making hamburgers, robots killing lionfish in the Mediterranean, killing lionfish in the Caribbean, robots doing everything.
This is the program. This is the operation.
Oh, there it is, three ways churches can use biometrics to increase security. Oh, okay, I'm sorry. They've got them to get in the door and they've got them to make their payments.
So sure enough, I guess they're giving their offering plates up with that system.
So that's what's going on here, ladies and gentlemen. That's what's happening.
And everything you do is already tracked and it's beyond Big Brother.
Now you can have world leaders in the future projected 20, 30, 50 feet high in town's commons as giant holograms speaking to you and telling you about the world government.
The Bible says there'll be 20 and 30 foot holograms in the world capitals in Jerusalem, in Rome, in other areas of the world leader and the beast.
This is this logo creature that's described like a machine, basically like Megatron.
So the Bible described this big metal angel creature will be projected everywhere in the world at the same time and will tell you to submit.
It'll have all the high technology, life extension. It'll have everything.
You've just got to get down and worship it and accept its politics and do what it says and it's going to watch you omnipresently artificially with the tech to make sure you submit.
And if you don't submit, well, you'll be downgraded and at first it'll be easy to get a five star.
You don't have to do much, but soon it'll be more and more and more than very few will have five stars.
It'll be totally coveted, the new Hollywood power. Even world leaders won't have five stars.
Oh, the people that do will be like Dalai Lama like people. Worshiped.
Oh, you want that five star, don't you? Because if you don't have it, you'll be cut off from the entertainment, jobs, everything.
This is their system. And we've been warned thousands of years ago.
If you read Ezekiel and you read Daniel and you read Revelation, all written within 3,000 years of themselves.
Ezekiel says these big rings of fire come down in land and these dudes with blue helmets on, that's how it's described in the Hebrew, come off and they tell them.
They say, take this and then they take this thing they're told and then it downloads all the information into them.
They all said the same thing. World government, marks in the hands, marks in the head, don't take it.
Once you all get rigged up to this, it's going to start exterminating everybody.
Well, let's just say the Bible's not true.
I'm not saying that, but just for the sake of argument, what is it then? Because it's being built.
Now, let me just throw this in here. For now, you can still go to m4warstore.com if they're trying to take our payment processors and bankrupt us and shut us down and sue us into oblivion with fake lawsuits.
We first broke the social credit scores five years ago. You can still go to m4warstore.com though and you can buy products that are excellent and still fund our operation during this critical time while people now know we were right.
They're now listening more than ever. They ridicule the demonization, the fake news attacks every day, aren't slowing us down.
And so we just want to be strong through the finish, whatever God's plan is, and that means capital to continue on and expand because if we don't expand, we'll be contracting and then they're winning.
And we're neck and neck whether they're going to win right now. So it's really up to you to get great products you need to sign a ferato ship so they get reshipped to you in canceling time, get 10% off additionally.
At m4warstore.com we have free shipping on order $50 or more. We have the ultimate bone broth. 50% off, never done that before. It's very close to what it cost to produce it.
1995, but I got a giant order of it in and I want people to try it who haven't tried it and see the amazing benefits of crew bone broth with the chocolate mushroom, the turmeric, the bee pollen, and so much more.
50% off at m4warstore.com, m4slife.com, and it's our new formulation of ultimate bone broth. It's even better than the last one. We have bodies ultimate turmeric formula, the strongest out there, 95%.
So many things turmeric does. This is the best you're going to find at a great price, too much supply. It's 50% off even though it's about to sell out. That special will end within days.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. Info Wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system. The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four stage, compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home.
Removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
With half ounce and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go. The incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, immune gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative. With super blue silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle, only available at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, is going to become one of our fellow infowars favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including 3D extract and Ramate extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
That's all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has. It's also got the boost in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstore.com.
It's a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
You know, I don't like to speak yellow the dead, but I've been on air for 24 years, been on radio for 23, and I have been following John McCain's evil career.
The open borders, the gun control, the lying, the swindling SNLs, the funding ISIS al-Qaeda, covering up for the Clintons, just a monstrous person.
And he's everything wrong with this country, horrible blue blood neocon of the very worst ilk, his father, his grandfather, horrible corrupt people, all involved in big swindling scandals.
McCain comes from a crime family. I know his last name isn't, you know, Capone, but it's unbelievable.
And they just, during the break, I was back in the break room, getting a glass of water, and they had him from 2012 going, when you malign someone and say bad things about them, it's wrong, you should never do it.
He was always there to make sure corruption could continue on. And he'd cuss at people and tell them to go to hell and all these things, and that's not the real reason he was a bad guy.
The guy was famously an out-of-control egomaniac tyrant who would then say, remember a couple years ago, he said to Rand Paul, you're a Russian agent because you're not voting to expand war in Ukraine.
He said, I call for that senator to be investigated as a Russian agent. I mean, give me a break, McCain. You're covered up for Hillary.
You're covered up for her and Uranium One and Mueller with the tarmac meetings. You people are sick freaks.
And then the Democrats always hated him before, until they were worshiping Obama publicly. They didn't realize he was a shill for them all along.
And I am just so sick of everyone fawning after him and like, oh, saying great things about him. It's a lie.
So McCain's spirit has gone wherever it's gone. I'm not glad he died. I don't wish any ill upon him.
But man, it's getting really, really sick. You know, in the whole mainstream media, in the whole culture, in Hollywood worship, you know you're a bad guy.
What did Christ say? All those that hate me love death. And if you love me, the world's going to hate you.
That doesn't mean I'm on some high horse, that I'm some preacher, I'm some Pharisee telling you, you know, if you've done this or that, you're going to hell. God judges the heart.
I'm simply talking about good and evil and the fact that if you're trying to be a good person and really help other people and really tell the truth,
instead of just virtue signaling like these monsters do, the world will come after you.
So if the world loves you, you know you're doing bad.
If the establishment, we talk about the world, we mean Bill Clinton, Peter Strock, Harvey Weinstein, Queen Elizabeth II.
I mean, when those folks like you and everything's beautiful and everything's nice and you're all around these other fake people, you're losing your soul.
Now, I do want to take the calls again today. I'm going to be doing that coming up later in the next hour. And I do have a ton of clips and news that I haven't even gotten to yet that is of extreme importance.
But I've been hammering for several months internet censorship ahead of the midterms. I've been hammering it because I believe it was the central issue and no one was really talking about it.
Thanks. Again, keep going back to this because it's so critical to DrudgeReport.com and you, the audience, and I mean that equally to Matt Drudge and to the audience. Thank you all.
We really appreciate you being smart, having common sense, standing up yourself and us and having self preservation instincts. So thank God you're not cowards as well.
So it is this audience. It is this crew in this building. It is you, the supporters of this broadcast. It's our local AM and FM stations, UHF, VHF and Cable.
You are the reason we were able to punch this story out. I was de-platformed for it. I was the first person on a large scale, unpersoned.
And I'm quite frankly not glad it happened, but I'm proud it happened because I'm so effective and you're so effective and we're so effective together this happened.
And now it is the big story. I said I'd get to it this segment last, but I went into some other issues. I got into McCain this segment.
I will start at the next hour, get into this huge group of incredibly positive news.
Trump is looking at Sherman Antitrust Act Section 2. He's looking at tech giants perjury to Congress.
He's also looking at the WikiLeaks and their own admissions that they're working with the Democrats and quote that Facebook and Twitter are quote owned by the Democratic Party.
Those are statements that they're owned by them. And that's them talking to each other. Oh, you know, you own us. You know, we're 100% behind you.
And we already saw the censorship two years ago, almost two years ago. We already saw that and witnessed it all.
And so people have to understand that it's on. And so you've done a great job.
But if you really want to get this to every talk show host, you know, and just fill the inbox of Congress, go to your congressman or woman's meetings when they're back in the district,
which many of them are right now campaigning and hand them this report and say, listen, I know you get handed a lot of stuff, but whoever stands up for this is going to save the country, win the midterms and be a hero.
I had Matt Gates briefed right before he had those hearings and I said, if you green light and say you're just private companies, do whatever you want, they're going to totally start censoring right after.
Gates didn't listen. Now he says he's wrong and I'll leave it at that. That's good.
But I mean, Gates would have been presidential material if he would have been the champion upfront and then Trump picking it up, he'd just be movie star level, which is great.
These guys don't listen. Daddy's a billionaire, you know, Gates is a smart guy, but daddy kind of got him the seat and everything.
And so he doesn't need to listen to, you know, Jones from Texas when, you know, Roger Stone briefs him on stuff or we get him information.
Now I might be an arrogant. I just want to win. Now Gates is like, you're right, I was wrong. Well, well, good Gates. I'm glad you know that now.
So they got more hearings coming up next month.
Don't play patty cake with these trillion dollar companies. They are absolutely gutting this country up one side and down the other and engaged in racketeering and Sherman antitrust act violations and unfair trade practices and fraud and discrimination and just anything.
I mean, it's, it's, I've had top law firms look at it with all their own admissions and Senator Warner, Mark Warner and Senator Wyden and Senator Murphy's admissions in this stay behind office.
You know, like the office of the post office pretty big, huh? Obama set up an office under the Defense Authorization Act 2017, the John Warner Defense Authorization Act named after the former senator, not the current one.
And they lay the whole plan to shut everybody down and take over. People keep asking Jones, how do you have the Pentagon call me up and others.
They say, Jones, how are you continually? How do you know all this? And I'm like, they're writing white papers. They're writing white papers.
Do all of you people just pretend you do research? I talked to generals. I talked to former CIA section chiefs. I'm not bragging and like, I know more than they do.
You know why? Because they're taking care of their grandkids and their kids or they're playing golf and they just kind of, you know, bitch, you complain and watch Fox News.
Man, I'm not doing that. Okay. Matt Drudge isn't doing that. Matt Drudge has been running his own operations for 20 something years. He's built it himself. He knows how things work.
Show do I. Matt Drudge has all the sources in the Supreme Court, the White House, foreign governments. Matt Drudge is a world traveler.
I'll leave it at that. He knows. Let me tell you, I don't want to be the only one up here with Matt Drudge that knows all this.
It's very frustrating. Breitbart's starting to get it with their computer scientists and top folks. A lot of lawyers are getting.
You heard former head Clinton strategist earlier with Tucker Carlson and going, no, this is a total takeover. They're going to steal the election.
Republicans ought to be really concerned. I mean, they can deliver with just a couple days of Facebook turned over to Democrats, 5 million extra votes.
And that's the counter, the huge Republican red wave tsunami. They're panicked by that. The red waves coming in.
So they're trying to totally up the censorship. And you know, double voting and everything else to counter that. And it's not going to work.
But Trump had a huge wave in 2016, but they had such election fraud and stole at least six states that the wave almost hit the seawall and almost didn't go over.
But some did. And just that little bit turned the country back around.
So, and by the way, the left all brags how they control everything.
So it's on. And now that Trump spotlighted it, they go, oh, that's insane. It's a conspiracy theory. It's crazy. So the articles on info wars dot com. Get out to everybody.
The social media purge of conservatives is a giant election meddling scheme. We're going to add a few of my videos that I've been breaking this down on as well into that.
We have an emergency briefing with the president from Saturday. That's probably good to add that on Twitter.
But I mean, look, it's up to you to get this out. The president's getting it. And others are getting it. We have to get a crash course in this now.
I'm a nose.
We're speeding as I'll say.
We're speeding as I'll say.
Can't remember now he says underlay, underlay, underlay, underlay, reba, reba, reba, reba, reba, reba, underlay, underlay, reba, reba, reba, reba, reba.
I find to do that. But most of the Republicans are like, I am slow poking dollars. I do not know.
infowarstore.com. Get some great t-shirts and some of the great supplements. Help fund the operation and stick your thumb in the eye of Soros and that pig demon, Hillary.
Please support us. We need to support infowarstore.com. Whatever you do, spread the word.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
infowar's life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why infowar's life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion, uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today, available at infowarstore.com.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance.
Ha ha ha!
Ramming speed, baby! Ah! Good power!
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
I know that may not sound good to some of you. That sounds good to my ears, I'm sorry.
Alright, let's get serious here. I don't really know how to put it or say it.
But a lot of people think this is all a virtual reality deal, and now even top bankers and globalists, they say, oh, there's some outside force that's making everything a virtual reality and a simulation.
The different telescopes and different systems they've got that measure dark matter. There's NASA papers, you name it, saying that indeed there's a power source much greater than what we see in our own matter.
Holding this universe together, the whole Big Bang Theory and the rest of it, is just that theory.
It's kind of like Total Recall. He goes in to plug in, he's having a boring life. It's a Philip K. Dick book, isn't it?
And then all of a sudden he's a secret agent and he's killing all these guys and taking these people out and saving Mars and activating the ancient reactors to tarot-farm it.
Is he crazy or is it real? You don't know.
But to be sitting here and putting out the reports that I know go to the president, he goes to his lawyers that don't want to tell him all this because they're scared.
So yes, sir, that's true. Sherman Antitrust Act section 2, Unfair Trade Practices, Racketeering, Election Violations, Federal Elections Commission, billions of dollars of funding is what the big tech is doing by blocking all conservatives and all people basically communicating with each other.
It violates the First Amendment, violates civil rights. It's amazing.
And then I just kind of sit back and go, is this even real? I'm on a planet orbiting a sun. I go out too long. It burns my skin. I can see meteors at night.
There's all this incredible, beautiful stuff all around our world.
My children, my wife, the audience, this operation, I mean, are you real?
And you know what? We are the third dimension. And God says this is a third dimensional simulation, but done with RNA, with DNA, that it's a spiritual experience manifesting a real virtual reality that's so real, it's actually third dimension.
The planet's real. Our bodies are real, but there is a spirit within us. And the globalists know that.
And they know our spirit broadcasts the ideas and the thoughts and the dreams we have. So they put out evil broadcasts, trying to get us to resonate with that, to then buy into the nightmare, to then manifest hell on earth.
Because that's what these demons, these creatures, these marooned spirits want.
And that's what the Bible says. That's what every other culture says. And that's what the globalists believe. None of the globalists.
They have run into a lot of them. Hollywood, you name it, none of them are atheists.
They are either Luciferian or Satanist, or into the occult, or they believe in the earth being seeded by aliens.
And those aliens are interdimensionally communicating with them, and they believe they have to reduce world population as a sacrifice to ascend to the heavens, a.k.a. what we've seen going on with 2001 Space Odyssey.
So the Mark of the Beast is here, world government's here, and it's a simulation, but it's not.
But it's been proven. It's all held together artificially by a much more powerful force.
And it's here for us to experience consciousness and free will. Because if you're God, the one thing you don't have is something separate from you that's conscious as its own little universe in its mind.
And that's us. That's our spirits, our own little universe.
And now, because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
Every human soul is its own universe with unlimited potential.
God creating independent sentient creatures with souls with spirits that are able to have the choice of free will built in the image of God as little creators, not big creators.
That is the ultimate power of the Supreme Being, and would be the logical move would be to create something completely new that had its own free will, but in an embryonic level to then experience the universe for itself.
Probably even in a way where the creator experienced the universe through the processes to rediscover that. But then you have to ask the question that my 10 year old daughter about two weeks ago at the dinner table looked at me and said, Dad, but if there was nothing there would be nothing.
So what was there before God?
Everyone I was a young child right through until I was a teenager and I stopped having the dream. Almost every night I had this dream amongst others. I have lots of dreams every night, hundreds and hundreds, the whole worlds, whole times, whole lifetimes, some of them, whole families, peoples.
It just goes on and on. It's incredible.
I mean, who says that world isn't more real than this world?
Those are the crystal visions. I'll keep my visions in myself as one line from a rock song says.
But think about that. God is all powerful. God is all encompassing timeless and endless.
But then we are independent sentient creatures who are able to have free will or subvert our free will and hand it over to these other fallen failed creatures that decided not to go through the hierarchy, not to ascend to the long arduous process, but to do decided to just try to rule their fallen third and second dimension positions.
And they want to kill, they want to destroy, they want to mutate, they want to hurt, they want to hurt innocents, they want to hurt children because that's the image of purity and potential.
As Gandhi said, each person's soul is the seed of the universe.
That's another way of saying we are all our own universe of potential of what we can do in this universe that is only a launchpad for the unlimited developments and unlimited discoveries and unlimited love that we can have together with other sentient, conscious, eternal, everlasting spirits.
And that's the whole of everything. And the enemy is constantly trying to keep you as one of my producers said.
He made a great point up in the cerebral distractions and fear based system of the day so that you're not aware of the greater universe and so that you can basically be locked in to the Madison Avenue and the TV and the Hollywood and the whole Times Square artificiality that they're trying to suck us in.
Here's that famous Zuckerberg photo from a few years ago that Drudge always posts that has the Facebook employees all dutifully sitting, bent over, like subhumans with VR goggles on, virtual reality, hunched over their keyboards, looking at the virtual reality that Zuckerberg is projecting them into, making them submit to, making them excel in his own little ugly universe that he controls where he can play God and he walks in.
And he walks bipedally.
Through that crowd.
Thank you search engine just Zuckerberg auditorium virtual reality and will come up.
But but that photo tells a trillion words.
It's all very funny to them. This is the great goal.
And all the studies show and all the tech heads even admit they got to tell you metaphysically. This is hurting you. It's depressing you. It's dumbing you down.
It's destroying your creativity. It's it's it's it's sapping you. It's draining you.
But still you can't help it. But then we inject into the matrix here daily trying to reach you.
And they were arrogant and tried to spin it. We said and did try to turn it around against us, but it didn't work.
So finally they said ban him completely.
Send him to the Phantom zone.
And let it be a lesson to all the rest of them. You shut up about the topics Alex Jones covers or we will destroy you.
We will tell elaborate lies and frauds about you every day. We will come after your family.
We will bankrupt you. We will destroy you if you don't submit to us.
Well, that's slavery and that doesn't intimidate me.
But the average empty person.
So scared of death. So scared trying to hold on to everything.
Be scared because in their spirit, they know they've made the wrong decisions.
But then the system has control of their cerebral cortex and only one small part of their consciousness.
And it's saying you fill that fear. You feel that you're not fulfilled.
Follow us deeper down the pit down the black hole. We will give you fulfillment, but you've got to take our hand.
And they get scarier and scarier and scarier and they say you're scared of Trump.
You're scared of Alex Jones. Come deeper with us.
And they're like, I'm even more scared. I know, I know, but trust us.
Just keep holding on to my hand until everything you are.
And everything you've ever been is under my control.
Give me your consciousness. Give me your creativity.
Give me your dreams and your heart and your soul and your fears and everything you are.
And believe as I believe and say as I say and repeat what I am.
Replicate me. Join with my consciousness and subvert yourself to me.
And I will give you the stars. I will give you fulfillment.
I know you follow me long and things only get worse.
But that is for only so long.
Once, once you're in the deeper water, it will be blessed at the heart of a dead star forever.
The cold is so great for eternity. Destroyed.
That is their only power is destroying the will and the consciousness that you are
and keeping you from exercising your free will and going through the fear and going through the challenges.
And as soon as you do that, you're so fulfilled, you're like, oh my God, how did I not see this earlier?
And then you aren't depressed because you're not part of the system.
You're depressed because you know you're losing your family and you're losing people you cared about.
And when they look at you and manifest that hatred and that evil, it hurts your feelings
because you care about them and they smile back at you and you watch them through progression.
Go from being depressed, sad people to running that demonic, smiling, jack-o-lantern face,
joker face of just I'm in charge and it feels good and I'm doing what I want
and I'm in make-believe land and woo, yeah, they're gone.
Their soul was consumed, rewritten, diseased, destroyed forever, blown out the airlock.
They thought they were rising, they were falling.
And the average person going into this lower dimensional overwrite thinks that it's an exhilarating feeling as they're falling,
falling away from God, falling into a black hole and they're like, whoa, this is quite a feeling as they fall.
And as they get closer and closer to their oblivion, there's a satanic euphoria that overtakes them and then they are disintegrated.
And many of them are walking around who are completely gone, husk through which evil light shines through,
unconscious of how twisted and evil they are.
I saw a Democrat today on TV while I was working out and he didn't say his name and I said,
that guy looks like the biggest psychopathic evil person I've ever seen.
And Pat Riley was working me out and he goes, yeah, I bet it's a Democrat.
And then we pulled it up, it was the California attorney general.
I go, oh my God, I mean, he just flames evil and fraud and totally being turned over.
I mean, it's an avatar, it's off world crap, it's in that guy.
And you know it and then you look up his record, he wants everything free for illegal aliens to bankrupt the country.
He's an actual agent against humanity.
When you use public Wi-Fi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords.
That's why I use private internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
PrivateInternetAccess.com, it's time to protect your online privacy.
877-886-3653, goberky.com
HBXTrack.com, don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Protovite is nutrition you can feel. Protovite is nutrition that gets in.
Tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Now we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You have about 800 million followers. That's why you're banned.
Virtually every day the big tech companies censor someone else whose political opinions they disagree with.
For many on the left, the views seem to have become that if you can't beat them, prevent them from speaking.
Now they're down to the last corners of the Internet. Oh no, conservatives can speak to one another. We must shut it up.
People know what's true. They can smell it. You can't stop them from knowing that.
69 days, ladies and gentlemen, from the most important election in world history.
A referendum on the return of America, the return of the Republic.
All the enemies far in a domestic are lined up giving their full energy, their full hate, their full will, and their quest to control your hearts and minds.
I'm honored to be here. But I gotta tell you, I'm beyond on the edge of my seat. I am in the arena fighting as hard as I can.
Stumbling but having victory. Thanks for your support. We're all in this together.
I've told you that I intend to open the phones up more and I tend to go to your calls quicker and get to more of them.
The problem is we can take up to 100 phone calls at once. So we'll get like 20 of you on the line and I'll end up getting to 10 of you.
But I'm going to try to go to as many people as I can on this one subject and I want to give folks a chance to call in as first time callers.
So first time callers on the subject of what does Trump need to do to stop the Internet censorship?
What would you like to see him do? What do you expect him to do?
And what are you going to do to make sure that buzz gets going to Congress to talk radio at city council meetings, PTA meetings?
I don't care where you can have a forum. Lions club, your Masonic club, your Catholic church, your Buddhist temple, whatever the case is.
If you don't want to be under radical Islam, if you don't want to be under globalism, if you like prosperity and you want America and you like the success
and you like Trump and you like yourself, you need to get involved. So what are you going to do? I want to hear what Trump needs to do, what I need to do, what you need to do.
I want to hear your ideas. Every little bit counts. You know, I saw an article in some publication this morning. It was about Reddit.
And it was talking about, maybe it was Slate or something, look it up, but it was, this is one place Alex Jones won't be banned.
And it showed a subreddit about cars with InfoWars bumper stickers on them.
And the left is just saying, gosh, we can't stop people doing this on the street.
Absolutely. Nobody can stop you from printing off a poster that says infowars.com, forbidden information.
In fact, I'll tweet that out next segment. We'll find those posters and tweet them out at real Alex Jones.
No one can stop you from being your own printer or going to Kinko's, printing them up color,
printing up a thousand of those going out at night, sticking them on poles everywhere where everybody else puts stuff up.
And there'll be a big event the next day. The news is like, Alex Jones is all over town. It's fun to do that.
I'm willing to sacrifice my life for this. Let's have some fun with it.
And InfoWars is now the standard of free speech. It's now the example. It's now the world leader in it.
That's because of you. It isn't about credit, but I want you to get it in your head.
It's not Alex Jones. It's not even this great crew. We're part of it with you.
You, the millions of listeners, is who they fear. That's why they want us shut down,
because it's a place for you to talk and get more information and to come together.
It's a place where you're validated. It's a place where you get aid and sucker.
It's a place where you get people that aid and abet you.
It's a place where you have family. It's a place where you know you're not alone.
When you're pressured and attacked and demonized and persecuted, it makes me feel so good knowing you're out there
when they lie about me and do terrible things on a daily basis, because I know we're in this together
and I love you and I appreciate you.
So, the toll-free number to join us, which is 69 days out.
And as long as you get to my topic of what should Trump do, how should we counter it,
what are you going to do, what should I do, you can get into it.
False flags clearly are coming to blame us. They've got that all pre-programmed,
saying we're about to attack them and we're not lying about us.
How do we counter that? Let's get to that first big topic.
Then you can throw something else out, but I want to give each person a minute.
I want to comment for 30 seconds and move to the next person.
And I used to be good at taking calls and I've got a little bit better, but everybody knows that I'm long-winded.
877-789-2539, 877-789-2539.
Now, that number, 877-789-2539, I apologize.
When you get on the line, we'll probably never get to everybody because of the phone system.
One time in a two-hour show, it was a Sunday show, we had 20, was it three or 4,000 calls?
We have a digital system, we can see it.
Now, a lot of folks were calling back, but I mean, nobody gets calls like this.
But the problem is, is that I can never get to them and the folks that will be on hold kind of fall asleep.
And then that's what we want to move through your calls quickly.
I think I'm going to start doing something where I maybe take six, seven calls, get them on the board,
close the phone system again so you can't call, take those, reopen it.
That way it's all fresh and nobody ever holds more than 30 minutes.
That's what I like to do.
Now, I've been talking about it. I haven't gotten into the report yet.
I will briefly do it when we come back and then I'll go to your calls.
The social media purge of conservatives is a giant election meddling scheme.
Why am I harping on this?
Because we've got the president's here.
Congress is moving.
I have Kudlow coming up next segment saying they're looking at all the options.
I know little folks, little birds that had dinner with Kudlow in New York five days ago.
And I'll just stop there.
So let me just tell you, I'm not about access.
I'm not about Hollywood.
I'm not about being in D.C.
I'm not about being close to the power.
I want to build my own thing, okay?
But they try to block me on the Internet and I'm like, you didn't know?
I can just get on the telephone or I can make a few calls.
Any member of Congress that's a Republican I want who isn't a globalist?
I mean, if I have to call people and send them stuff by courier, I will.
And guess what?
When I do it personally, it's much better than me just on there talking about it.
So now more and more, I'm going home at night after the kids go to bed.
But like eight, nine o'clock or I'm letting them watch a movie and I go into my office
and I got 10 people every night.
I call different people and I call them and I have a talk with them.
And I say, you got 600 radio stations.
I really need you to do this for yourself and your family.
You got 500 radio stations.
You got 300 radio stations.
You're a congressman.
Do what you need to do.
Why can't you see this?
Well, they're big tech.
They got a lot of money and I'm not sure, you know, really.
You got the one that's got to do it.
Do it.
The games are over.
And if I got to step into the leadership role here when nobody else will,
I've just been trying to like warn people like Paul Revere and then no one wants to become George Washington.
Well, if I got to be George Washington, I will.
But we got to George Washington.
He's called Donald John Trump.
So I need Paul Revere's to get the message out and I love you and I appreciate you.
That said, our problems are basically solved if you flood us with money.
And we've got just enough coming in to barely expand with the lawsuits and the crap and we're winning,
but we need fuel in the war.
We need ammo.
So commit.
And I want to thank you who have committed to go to infowarstore.com.
We have super silver gel FDA approved for over the counter, the best tested system for your body.
Once you have a scratch, once you don't have a scratch,
it means before or after it's amazing to have your arsenal 25% off that sells about the end.
Ultimate turmeric bodies that's selling out 50% off.
I'm still keeping the special up there.
Ultimate bone broth formula are new, even stronger form of 50% off because I want you to try it.
But all those specials have to end soon.
Whatever you do, sign up for auto ship mission 10% off.
That way you get discounts and don't forget to support us.
infowarstore.com.
I appreciate your help.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does,
you're going to love the Dillon living water bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel,
the Dillon bottle increases the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy.
The Dillon bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co.
To support your healthy muscles and muscles,
digests tendons and ligaments while supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfowarsStore.com.
Simply free of toxins and allergens, simply put, if you want the best at an extremely
low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent
laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function.
For something the globalists are targeting, visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the infor.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this
country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together.
We're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield InfoWarsLive.com.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Yeah, I think Google is really taking advantage of a lot of people and I think that's a very
serious thing and it's a very serious charge.
I think what Google and what others are doing, if you look at what's going on at Twitter,
if you look at what's going on in Facebook, they better be careful because you can't
do that to people.
You can't do it.
The tremendous, we have literally thousands and thousands of complaints coming in and
you just can't do that.
So I think that Google and Twitter and Facebook, they're really treading on very, very troubled
territory and they have to be careful.
It's not fair to large portions of the population.
Okay?
Thank you very much, everybody.
It is discriminatory.
It violates the Sherman anti-trust act and I'm at Bloomberg Articles, CNBC.
They're all, I'm going to go to these in a moment that your phone calls, admitting that
the tech giants have been illegally spying on people, they've been discriminating on
your income, your race, your religion, they have it all and then they admit in their own
sales perspectives that they're specifically charging you what they think you'll pay for.
I mean, a cheeseburger ought to be a cheeseburger.
You walk into a water burger and you're a white guy and a double cheeseburger should
be $5 and if you're a black guy, it should be $5.
If you're a woman, it should be $5.
Let's see.
That's not how it works.
The Amazon and others have been caught.
Well, some of the big travel companies, remember, and I noticed this years ago, like if I bought
first class on something, the next time I went back to that, it was like way more and
I learned to clear cookies and then it'd be like half the price.
I'm like $15,000 first class to England.
I paid like $3,000 about six months ago and then it's like clear the cookies.
It's $4,000.
I'm like, well, I guess I'll pay for that because my back's hurting or whatever.
The point is, is that, and then sure enough, it was in the news they're gaming it.
So these big tech companies are screwing people over seven ways from Sunday and if they can
get the left to all support censorship and what they're doing in the name of fighting
Republicans, they love it because they can really then just screw everyone over.
We ought to all come together under free speech and under equal opportunity, which is what
the Republicans all got passed through Congress and the Democrats then run around and take
advantage of it.
You know, my grandfather, my grandmother, they supported desegregation.
She was a school teacher.
He was a county tax assessor.
They were Republicans in East Texas.
That's like the South and they had people threaten them and get mad at them and it was
like, they were trying to build people up.
They were trying to believe in what Martin Luther King talked about how today we're told
Republicans are Nazis because people don't have a memory of five years ago or a month
ago.
I mean, CNN, I went to CNN yesterday and they got articles where all the top Google searches
were CNN saying Trump's crazy.
There's no tech censorship.
Google doesn't censorship.
They were CNN was calling for all of us to be banned, getting us banned.
And then days later saying, we're crazy.
No one's banning us CNN.
I have a memory.
But more importantly, I then showed in a special broadcast at a year, said info wars.com and
real Alex Jones on Twitter.
All these CNN articles, like 20 of them saying censor them, take them out the air.
Don't stop with Alex Jones.
And then the very same reporter that said, take me off said Trump's crazy.
It's not happening.
That is beyond dastardly.
That's, I think it's stupid, but see, they're trying to break your will.
They're trying to train you to accept anything and everything.
So now the headlines are everywhere.
Wall Street Journal, New York Times, even the Washington Times is Trump right about
conservatives being censored and discriminated against, okay, is Bill Clinton a rapist?
Is the Pacific Ocean West of California?
I mean, this is getting downright ridiculous.
They're censoring and shadow banning and total banning across the board.
They've been lobbying for it.
They have all these Democrat House and Senate members saying Jones is on the tip of the
iceberg, ban them all.
I want thousands of sites banned.
Senator Whiten, Senator Murphy, Senator Warner, who run the thing.
And then these arrogant people at Google won't even send their CEO to Congress when
he's subpoenaed.
So they think you're a bunch of idiots in Congress.
They think Martin Lutherans are idiots and they think we're all, no, we're not idiots.
We're not idiots, Zuckerberg.
And we're sick of it.
And I'm tired of you lying about what I said and what I did.
Their favorite thing is I'm transphobic.
I'm a libertarian.
I'm not against anybody as long as they're not hurting kids.
What you want to do in your own life, you do.
Everyone knows that's what I've always said it's who I am.
They have headlines all over the place.
Jones hates the LGBT Jones.
And you know what I've noticed?
I'm going to do a special report on this and maybe even a documentary.
Which when I criticized pedophilia and the Catholic Church and sexualization of kids
by any group, heterosexual, homosexual, I get called homophobic by these publications.
And so what they're really saying is the core of the LGBT is run by the P.
LGBT, lesbian, gay, bi, trans, and then you had to pee at the end.
Because what happens is, just like they said, I said kill members of the media, never said
it, fake headlines.
Or anything I do, they turn around, it's when I criticize sexualization of children and
I say, I don't care if it's in the quote, you know, education, whatever, having drag
queens or trans or straight, imagine if straight guys came, so we're going to teach her three
year olds their sex might be different and talk to them about sex, you'd go no way pervert.
Like some dude, hi at the park, I like to talk to your five year old daughter about her sexuality.
Maybe she really thinks she identifies a 20 year old woman would like to date me.
You'd call the police.
But if you say, oh, it's diversity training, then you're not, oh, well, absolutely.
If you want to have, you know, a group of men and women's clothing come in and tell kids,
you are a girl, but you could be a boy, you're a boy, you could be a girl, I mean, how crazy
is this?
And then they go, Jones was being transphobic again.
And so, I mean, that's really, and people are, people are figuring this out.
Now there's PubMed studies, pedophilia and the gay movement.
I mean, if gay people, I won't use homosexuals, heterosexuals, sign of a term, but I'll use
the term you want.
It used to mean just a happy day.
If you aren't for pedophilia, then stop lying when I stand up for children and abuse people
and saying I'm attacking you and I don't even think about what you're doing in your bedroom.
I got my own life, like, oh my God, people are doing something, and then you project
onto me all of this, it's pure crud.
We'll go to break and come back, but, and I promise to go to your calls right through
the next hour, we're gonna go to Willie and Barrett and Kevin and Caleb and Matt and Brian
and Joe and Matthew and Wes and a bunch of others when we come back.
But the good news is the president's moving against these folks, real things are happening
and it's because of you getting the word out and I want to salute all of you and it's not
about thanking people, but you need to know you've done a good job.
You spread the word, keep doing it.
We're going over the top here, thanks to you, thanks to DrudgeReport.com, thanks to NewsWars.com,
thanks to MFullWars.com, and the globalists know, time and time again, we're the ones
that analyze the real globalist operation, expose it, and be able to, you know, basically
defeat the globalist.
Now, before I go to break and come back with your calls, listen, without you, we're gonna
be shut down.
It's, it's that simple and we have great books, great videos, great t-shirts, limited edition,
Made in America, you name it, so much.
Every order gets bumper stickers to spread the word, but we need financial support.
We don't, the network has sponsors, the local station is doing, please support them.
We have you buying products at MFullWarsStore.com or MFullWarsLive.com or AAA-2533139 and without
you sponsoring us by getting great products you need at the same time.
We won't be here.
So if you want to stand with MFullWars against the Seville and be part of history, you bet
a customer you like the products, come back again, sign up for auto-ship, get 10% off on
things you're gonna reorder, like supplements or Wake Up America, organic, delicious coffee.
It's all there, but 50% off body, he's ultimate turmeric formula.
It's an amazing formula, one of the best formulas out there, 50% off, you can't get
a better deal.
Ultimate bone broth, I did a quadruple size order, so we're doing it for $19.95.
It's amazing, find out about its benefits.
There's a bunch of other specials as well, 50% off, 40% off, excuse me, our ultimate
sleep formula, knock out, totally natural, try it for yourself, thousands of five-star
reviews, MFullWarsStore.com, MFullWarsLive.com or AAA-2533139.
We've got Patriot style comic books, althero at MFullWarsStore.com, bumper stickers, so
much more, check it out today.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure, deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg, first demonize infowars, lie about us, build a straw man,
then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then wallah.
Two weeks later ban infowars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were
all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter and give us your
emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our
own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, forward slash show, how they can download
the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information
going out, this is the verboten info, this is what they don't want you to see.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the infowars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the infowars life daily digestive pack today.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an infowars
life.
It'd take hours.
Michael's DX Plus now has a lower price, it's stronger, it's the other equation in probiotics,
it knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone, that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids, so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do, you can also swallow
it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarsstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the info war.
So the globalists want to sabotage the 2018 elections and try to put populism back on
its heels.
Nice try, populism is exploding worldwide, the global is being thrown out across Europe,
Latin America, you name it.
If they're striking back hard, we need to decide some victory now to really demoralize
the enemy.
Key article on infowars.com, I'm begging everybody to get out to everyone they know.
See what we talk about, have we pushed it over the top?
Whoever's going to link to this, it's critical you get it out there because the social media
purge of conservatives is a giant election meddling scheme.
Paul Joseph Watson, when it goes through the examples, the admissions, the banning, how
they're doing it, how to stop them, what the president needs to do.
And you notice now, we've got petitions at whitehouse.gov.
Bring attention to this, the tens of thousands just signed since yesterday, since Paul Watson
put up, it's critical.
I've retweeted it at real Alex Jones, please get that out.
Meanwhile, Trump, Facebook, Twitter, Google are treading on very, very troubled territory,
thin ice, and they had to be careful how Trump could hurt Google, Politico, unfair trade
practices, Sherman Antitrust Act, Section 2, lying to Congress, collusion, market rigging,
everything I told you.
Everything I told you, the Federal Trade Commission, antitrust, word for word, what
I told you.
Next week's news today.
I'm bragging, I'm just saying, you think I just play around and act like I know what
I'm talking about?
I already knew all this, but I checked with three different law firms and other groups.
Mike Adams is the host of the Fourth Hour, he wrote a report to the president as well,
we got to him.
Those probes, Google after Trump accuses it of bias, Yahoo News, Reuters accuses it.
It's a joke how biased it is, go look at the search results, they got caught in WikiLeaks
doing it.
Now it's 100 times worse, literally, a thousand times, it's everything censored.
Rights group urged no censor Google search for China, major rights group, AP reports,
oh, remember this is getting no attention, until we covered it, until Drudge covered
it, the intercept, oh, they're spilling a censorship engine, Congress threatened them
with espionage in 2010, they didn't stop helping censor the Chinese people and enslave them,
and now it's back in the news, oh, Google, banning me didn't stop that from coming out,
did it.
We'll get more into that.
We should all be worried about Google's power, New York Post.
Senators criticize Google's CEO for declining to testify, subpoena has asked, dozens at
Facebook unite to challenge its intolerant liberal culture, study, it's a bunch of liberal
bullies, study affirms Google's search results, lean left, golden daily, Facebook engineers
stunning admission, we tear down posters welcoming Trump supporters, Trump Google news story,
CNN claiming Google isn't rigged, is the top feed, censor now online media companies are
suppressing conservative speech, Trump is doing everything he said he do, thank God for Trump.
Okay, now starting now and right through the next hour, your calls, interspersed a lot
of the breaking news, MSNBC, CNN defend Antifa, claim Trump rationalizes and urges violence
when they're the violent ones, and they also say Antifa is black, so saying they're bad
is racist, though they're almost all meth head, white young people or professors.
Our crowds protesting them are way more diverse than theirs, so it's just next level brainwashing.
Right now, let's just say Willie, Erica, Barrett, Michael, Kevin, who's been holding
the longest out of those folks, let's go to Willie in Texas, Willie, thanks for holding.
Hi Alex.
Hey brother.
Everything that you're doing, thanks to the crew, and I just wanted to tell you, you know,
the products are great, been using them for a while, everyone should give them a shot that's
on the fence, they're great stuff, you won't be disappointed.
The other thing I'd like to say is you send out the free bumper sticker with every one
of those orders, I've taken all your bumper stickers and put magnet stripping on the back,
you can get it for a buck at Walmart, you can turn all your info wars stickers into
magnets, so if you're hesitant to put it on your car because it's thicker, you can use
a magnet, put it on your way to where you're going, take it off when you get there if you're
worried about it.
Well that's a smart thing because the left could key you or whatever, if you don't care
that's fine, and conservative areas you'll get your lunchbox for you, other areas you
might get attacked.
In fact, we're going to come out with magnetized bumper stickers very soon at cost, so folks
should do that, put a big old one on the side of your car and then just take it off when
you get there and reach hundreds and hundreds of people if not thousands on a longer trip,
great idea.
I drive into a major downtown city every day, I notice 9.5 cars don't have bumper stickers
and the ones that do are for opposing viewpoints and so we have to have our message out there
amongst everyone just as much, I would love to drive into town and see Trump stickers
and info wars stickers and gateway pundit stickers, I make stickers or sorry magnets
for everything at this point, for different news outlets for people to check out and I
change it on the back of my car like I change my tie, whatever I feel like that day or the
magnets that I put on and so it would be great if people would do this, it's a real world
way to spread the message, you won't be censored and you can be careful of your car, you know
all at the same time.
Well that's right, I saw a slate article today, the one place where Alex Jones will
never be banned and they're very upset that all over the country you see info wars dot
com bumper stickers and Reddit's got a whole subreddit on it, so Hillary from prison info
wars dot com, info wars forbidden information and by the way that's an old bumper sticker
boy is it not forbidden information now, so that's a fun article, they absolutely can't
stand what people are doing, God bless you Willie, great points, okay we're going to
now go to Erika, that's my watch name, Erika in Virginia, Erika thanks for holding her
on the air.
Hi thanks for having me Alex, I had a question about is it possible for Trump to get like
an executive order for Facebook and Google and YouTube to basically abide by the First
Amendment and not you know censorship everybody?
Well here's exactly, here's what needs to happen, they need to have Congress informed
and be briefed with the info we sent the president and Congress and they call them in and they
go really you're not censoring, here's your own WikiLeaks, here's your own admissions,
here's your own search results, here's the studies, stop lying, stop perjuring yourself
and scare the love of God into these people that they should stop doing it and stop lying
about it, they're doing it, they admit they're doing it, but they've been lying to Congress
the last few years and so yeah, he can do executive order, Sherman Antitrust, we need
to have an internet bill of rights passed, we need real net neutrality because Obama
passed laws allowing this, they then repealed them but then it left it as a wild wild west
so big tech took that as a thing to just continue on, so again we don't want regulation but
then letting them regulate by fiat, letting the EU do these billion dollar fines on Facebook
and others to make them do what the EU wants, creates a power vacuum, we need laws saying
no foreign manipulation, they claim it's Russian, the Russians can't even put their shoes on
compared to like the EU and their censorship over here and Google, I'm not putting the
Russians down, they're just not competent like these globalists are at this stuff, at deception
so Congress needs to wake up now and realize this is a popular issue with the constituency
and something that's the whole future of them stopping the globalists throwing them out
of office so, but hey, in the good news now, it's the big central issue, you and I and
all of us together force this out Erica.
Yep, we've been working hard too, my other thing was, is it true about, I had read something
about China was actually the ones that got into the Hillary Clinton emails and there
was no Russian, well I know there was no Russian collusion at all, we know from the
download that's been admitted that it was downloaded on the thumb drives, it wasn't
done to the Russians, it was done by people inside the government, thanks Erica, I appreciate
your call, these are all great crawls, I'm trying to move through everybody here, let's
go ahead and talk to Barrett in California, Barrett in California addressing, fixing
net censorship, I mean it just shows how authoritarian the left is, this should blow up in their
face just politically that everywhere, they already tried to fix the election for Hillary,
it failed, they got caught and now they've quadrupled down, what do you think we should
do Barrett?
Well you know, the director of the CIA William Colby testified publicly in the 70s that they
had hundreds of journalists that were employed by the CIA and he said that they were some
of their greatest assets, so it's kind of naive to think that the CIA's reach has been restricted
to just journalists, it goes, they have their tentacles in the tech industry and everything
and even recently, like people like Ken DeLanian who was with the LA Times, now he's with MSNBC,
they found that he was sending his stories to the CIA for their approval and basically
just signing his name to whatever you wrote.
Yeah, yeah, wasn't he the guy that even went after the web who exposed the CIA drug dealing?
Yeah, yeah, exactly, and there's others like the former editor of the main German Daily
newspaper, Frankfurter Almein Zeitung, he wrote an entire book called Journalists for Hire
which is about his first-hand knowledge of the CIA bribing journalists and giving them
articles and the journalist would just sign their name to it and he died of a heart attack
soon after publishing that book.
Well, sir, I'm so glad, I'm so glad that you brought this up and thanks for the call.
As everybody heard me harping, Obama set up a new operation mockingbird that you mentioned
exposed by Frank Turch's committee in the 1970s, when we come back I'll break all this
down, okay, and yes, it's leftist foundations that plug into the CIA, it's only one small
part of it, not saying that the CIA is good, I'm saying it's a small part of it, who then
do this and Obama set up an office before he left full of these people to shut down
U.S. Free Press and yes, they're paying thousands of fake journalists to attack me and Trump,
this is a CIA operation.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the powerhouse Kregmanon product, it features
the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an
all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Kregmanon base, the Real Red Pill, it could become one of our fellow InfoWars
favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Redi X-Track, Irumat Dei
and more, you can get that extra pick me up, all supporting your mind and body in a healthy
way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, it's also got the most in it, get the
Real Red Pill Plus at InfoWarsStore.com.
Years ago, InfoWars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast, as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team
knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better
product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Explored by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco
bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com, that's InfoWarsLife.com.
you can run on for a long time, run on for a long time.
Alex Jones here, back live and we just had a really smart caller, Barrett in California
call in, we're going to continue with calls throughout the hour with Ben Garrison, the
top editorial cartoonist, political cartoonist in the world, hands down, so proud to have
him on, joining us here in just a moment.
But the caller called in and said, well, what about CIA Operation Monkingbird, the hearings
they had in the 70s, Frank Church Committee, people would be naive and I think this is
going on.
It's way beyond that.
The CIA is just the oldest and biggest intelligence agency since the 1947 National Security Act.
It's small potatoes.
The big tax-free foundations, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Rockefeller
Brothers Foundation, the Annenberg Foundation, the Carnegie Foundation, the Ford Foundation,
they are creating the anti-family, confused your children's sexual orientation or preference
they don't know who they are or sexual identity, it's all depopulation.
And so yes, everything you see through UNESCO, the UN, that's all robber barons out of the
UK and the US and Germany that set all this up for the modern eugenics world.
And so when you have Google and Facebook and Twitter meeting with the Democratic Party
and meeting with Senator Warner and meeting with Senator Murphy saying we're going to
not just censor Alex Jones, but thousands of other sites, this is their plan.
This is their program.
And so the caller really punched my button because Obama before leaving office in the
John Warner Defense Authorization Act established in the defense spending bill $611 million,
a large portion for domestic propaganda and ways to work with the quote, mainstream media
to shut down alternative media or fake news, that means us, you.
And so the CIA publicly is at the heart, that's why they had hearings last year in the Armed
Services Committee of the House and Senate, where they would say we're working with the
Board of Governors, the FCC, we're working with trusted media, we're working with the
CIA to shut down fake news and they listed info wars.
And said we were Russians with no evidence.
They don't call me to these hearings, they act like I don't exist, they don't call me
to either, they don't call you.
They just say because you want free market and the Second Amendment and Christianity
in America and support Trump, you're a foreign agent, when they're the globalists say America
was never great, America will never be great.
When they're the ones in bad with the chai comms and opening the borders and saying free
healthcare for illegal aliens, they'll bankrupt the nation, they're the globalists, they're
the enemy.
So I'm gonna put it on the screen again like I do every day for a year and a half.
For TV viewers, all the articles with the video clips were dem lawmakers demands censoring
info wars in the last year and a half and now they've banned us off the platforms as
they demanded.
The Democrats have taken the vacuum that Trump isn't in there stopping their regulation
and they're bullying, we need regulation saying you don't regulate.
And now Trump's moving on antitrust, you name it, thank God of the audience at Drudge Report
and Ben Garrison and everybody else making this a top issue.
So I'm gonna explain it again.
The CIA is tasked along with other federal agencies with organizing media and doling
out money to the New York Times, the Washington Post, BuzzFeed, you name it, this is on record
to lie about me and Trump and to never put out positive news and the president needs
with executive order to shut it down.
But they're like sir, they say it's to fight the Russians, they'll say you shut down, it's
bull, bull, have hearings, show what these criminals are doing.
We have the behind the scenes video of Facebook and Twitter and YouTube and the New York Times
going oh we censor any American flags, any veterans, any rednecks, anything Alex Jones,
anything Trump.
It has nothing to do with Russians.
Last week they had the quote secret telecom to big tech meeting with over 20 companies,
Facebook, Twitter, Google, Microsoft at Twitter headquarters to decide how to handle the elections.
That means panic and how to get their story straight about what they were already doing
to the elections because Trump woke up.
You guys didn't have a sleepwalk into it, we were rung the alarm bell, we got totally
banned because of it, but it's worth it, we're winning, we're staring the debt of freedom
in the eyes, all that we need to do is fight back and understand we will win because Wright
and history is on our side.
So get on board folks, as they say in full metal jacket, come on in for the big win.
Barrett will come back to you and other callers, but we're going with Mr. Garrett, let's just
stay with us, but Garrett's straight ahead.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The pro pure whole house water filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants
from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the pro
pure whole house filtration system today.
The pro pure whole house water filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide.
Ben Garrison is our guest, a riding shotgun with collars.
And of course, if you don't know who Ben Garrison is, you're hiding under a rock.
And notice what they came out with this year and how they said we must ban memes in the
EU.
And Facebook must have completely banned them unless they're pre-approved because AI doesn't
know a joke.
They can teach AI to restrict an info wars dot com URL or a drug report dot com URL.
And they can get AI to sit there and block comments, but AI, let's pull up the Ben Garrison
monopoly board piece from a few weeks ago we can.
How does AI looking at a smiling Zuckerberg and a smiling Chinese dictator and smiling
deep state and smiling Google, censoring the internet and censoring conservatives and other
conservatives and nationalists around the world.
What does that look like to AI?
All AI can do is read Ben Garrison.
And we know they admit they were the algorithm trying to block it just because that but it's
not enough because everybody else can then share it plus they can demonize and Alex
Jones you can see me in the jail right there hate speech and then try to block my URL or
have folks shared to share it because they'll get bad feedback but what about Ben Garrison
it's a picture everyone knows it's free speech why not it makes sense it's funny it's banned
in China Google's helped build a censorship search engine there to make fun of the dictator
as Winnie the Pooh for whatever the reasons I guess the way he talks in Chinese sounds
like hello Mr Christopher Waban I guess he lives in the Chinese and so the Chinese think
it's funny Christopher Waban and so they're not allowed to make jokes about it see how
that works you don't talk bad about it he's a very important person in the hundred acre
wood so Ben Garrison of grr graphics graphics dot com at graphics on Twitter for now joins
us we had Barrett I want to go to I want to take calls I hear your smart guy can cover
the field with us but the demonization the insanity the censorship why do you think
it's gone into overdrive I mean I think it's for the midterms and what do you think Trump
should do I mean I'm pretty excited now that they're talking about antitrust they're talking
about racketeering everything we've sent to him in policy reports his notice exactly
what he's doing because we had top law firms do it Ben great to have you back since you
visited a few months ago in Texas yeah it was great to see you down in Texas and I'm
really happy you picked up on the Winnie the Pooh you know that he was trying to the Z
was trying to ban Winnie the Pooh in China because it was used as a meme or kind of a
code coded image representing Z it was like I thought it was hilarious well if Z doesn't
like it then we have to I'm going to start putting Winnie the Pooh pins on him every
time I draw him that's the way it's going to be but you're right I mean it's a collusive
monopoly now with the social media you know we've seen we've seen what's been going on
they've weaponized the Justice Department we got a two-tiered Justice Department where
the left gets off and the conservatives gets prosecuted they weapon they pretty much weaponized
journalism and they weaponize education and universities against conservatives and now
what are they weaponizing now well it's social media because social media is the new town
square and so they have to make sure that conservative voices are banned and we're
going to what they want really is what Z has a Chinese style censored internet where we
have to we have to toe the line the leftist politically correct line and get our social
credits otherwise this is not going to lead to a good end I guarantee you that or pretty
soon we're not going to be able to get on planes because we have a low social credit
which and that's happening in China now they can't board trains if their social standing
is is too low so we have to kind of I hope Trump can somehow nip this in the bud before
it's kind of this is the big issue because this is the mark of the beast even you're
not a Christian this is we already have universities saying if you ever are pro Trump or like Alex
Jones you're being banned from admission lawyers are filing lawsuits over this this is happening
and people say well I'll just won't visit info wars dot commerce for Trump no it's always
going to be more once you give into this it's over they're making their move and as you
said Apple and Google have moved to China and are helping censor things and round up
political dissidents there that shows they'll do that here it shows there's no limit to
these people worth trillions of dollars these companies they are such villains well they
certainly are and you know we saw this last year start when they ban Andrew Anglin and
his daily stormer site now I just buys Andrew Anglin and I don't like Nazis and most Americans
don't so they started with an easy target okay was we're gonna we're not gonna allow
him pay access to PayPal we're not gonna have we're gonna take a site off a go daddy we're
gonna we know we're gonna harass him kick him off everywhere we find and you know this
is the whole crux of the matter we have to protect even unpopular speech I don't think
I think he should pay the consequences if he's doing things illegally but if he is just
having fun with his you know he has a right to his speech just like my wife let him have
his free speech because now what they're doing since they successfully got rid of all the
Nazis they're starting to label conservatives of Nazis and then we get kicked off too that's
their plan well that's the admitted plan we have to protect even unpopular speech such
as that to protect free speech I'll give you one example that I did that that's this has
been going on for a while I mean there was a very good movie made in the in the after
World War II was called the best years of our lives a very good movie very well done
but there's a scene that ruined it and that scene was when the with the sailor with no
hands yet hooks was talking to a guy at the soda fountain and the soda fountain guy told
him well that's too bad you had to lose your hands for nothing because we should have let
those Germans defeat the feet the Reds and the Limies and then of course there's a big
fight and the guy jumped over the soda fountain and punches the guy out and I'm thinking wait
a minute you fought in World War II to protect that guy's free speech and you may not like
it and what he's saying he's being a jerk but you don't all sudden go over the counter
and punch him out because that negates what you were fighting World War II for because
that that's what the Nazis do that's what Antifa does so that that is that that's kind
of set the theme it's like if you got something that's very unpopular oh let's just punch
him out and Hollywood kind of sets that tone well this guy saying something unpopular
free sale punch him out violence and so that's that's kind of like developed into the Antifa
today all they have to do is you know affix the label of a Nazi or fascist on you and
then you're you know you're going to get kicked off sure and folks physically assaulted and
folks know that's going on I think we're now well past that and you're right this is about
banning all conservatives all nationalists all libertarians the dinosaur media that
I see behind you on that calendar knew it was dying knew it was falling apart and the
truth of meteors comments are coming in politically to take them out and so you have a perfect
form of mainstream media with dying political class with foreign funding and then with what
Obama set up with this whole CIA group to counter domestic propaganda that means to shut us
down engage in all this and they're now coming in mass doing this and so I think that's that's
that's really the big issue here and we just have to get Trump mobilized everybody else
to take action yeah I want to read you something really short here that Jack Dorsey tweeted
out a couple weeks ago he says we're committing Twitter to help increase the collective health
openness and civility of public conversation and to hold ourselves publicly accountable
towards progress progressive we want a vibrant and healthy public conversation well who you
know who decides what that healthy is it sounds like we want to be inclusive of all inclusive
that's an SJW word inclusive of all perspectives and one that's immediately relevant and value
able well who determines what's relevant and valuable well he does it's all subjective
is to decide what basically they're get to decide what hate speech is they get to decide
what's relevant they get to decide what's what's something that's moving towards a psychological
dictatorship it's a problem it's always some kind of vague utopia you know if you just
follow us and give in to the deep state we're gonna lead you to the dystopia and now they're
gonna lead us to the avatars what they want Jack Dorsey utopia Jack Dorsey utopia I'm
David Hall founder of Diamond Gusset where we're proud of our 100% grown and sown American
made jeans whether you're out for dinner working on the farm or on the road Diamond Gusset
jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion to find yours visit
gusset.com that's g-u-s-s-e-t.com our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring
Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to in Liberty David Hall Diamond
Gusset jean company healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable
insurance plan keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating
the healthcare system has become a challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices
with liberty health share liberty health share is not insurance it is an association of self
pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical
needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org
most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the u.s. what
if I told you for just 54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart
and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't
just take my word for it check out all of the success stories at hbextract.com or to
order call 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 hbextract.com don't risk it when you can take
charge of it hi I'm Dan Pilla I started fighting the iris over 40 years ago when they tried
to seize my mother's house I sued the iris and won I beat the iris then and I've been
beating them ever since I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands
of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved I can help you to if
you owe taxes you can't pay don't wait another day there's no such thing as a hopeless tax
case call 834 no tax or go to my website Danpilla.com that's Danpilla.com Danpilla.com
I want to plow into all of this I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution I mean I cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com
I want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children
and adults who've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad the colloidal
silver and iodine as well infowarslife.com or triple 825-33139 and your purchase of
the products stands with us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the globalist
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site
now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider
a contribution twenty five fifty a hundred two fifty or even five hundred dollars would
be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their
campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go well now you can do just
that with the new official info wars app and here's the best part it is absolutely free
at the apple store and google play you can join the info war today check it out right
now at info wars dot com forward slash app app it's the info wars official app taken
on the globalist at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your
help downloading it we are unstoppable you're listening to the alex jones show you are either
with the republic or against it resistance to tides is obedience to god it's alex jones
all right now we got loaded phone lines you get a chance to talk to me and vengarism we're
talking about the censorship and you know i hear vengarism he's a smart guy he's a great
graphics designer he's undoubtedly the most successful current modern cartoonist his political
cartoonist in the world and most of you have seen this stuff everywhere they have real trouble
censoring it makes them mad and that's why the e you and others want laws pre controlling
memes where you have to go through a censor before it's allowed i mean this is what they're
asking facebook to do and a lot of what facebook is doing censorship wise is to get in line
with the e you and so trumps like well we don't regulate your private company that's
what congressman like matt gates was saying but the foreign countries are already regulating
the web it's global so they're standardizing here we're going under chinese control their
standards we're going under e you control so what does the president do well well let's
queue up a cudlow was asked are you gonna do something and he said yeah we're looking
at it well i can tell you it's in the news the president has said you're on thin ice
we're coming after you here's cudlow so this is really a good thing that i mean it's in
the news today president's looking at truck antitrust sermon act two when they're looking
this is what they're doing what these tech giants are doing is illegal and i get they
were the new thing the golden boys they do or they want they're now subverting the whole
thing top democrats have come out and admitted this could steal the election for the democrats
what do we need to do because like i get you're a nice guy so you're like liberals don't censor
that's what america's about now stop it they don't care they're authoritarians the average
leftist wants me in prison they scream and go after you russian agent that's what calling
me a martian agent but but they believe it then so i think we've kind of crossed the
rubicon here yeah but they don't they don't scream about hillary and her in her private
server and the chinese having all the secrets hacked and immediately going into their email
depository i mean i i mean i i have a feeling she's probably got paid off for that too i
mean hillary just about money and she's that's her that's her modus operandi selling out
her country for cash but you don't hear any of the the the meet the liberal media the
leftist you know the deep state propaganda organs complaining about that it's always
with the same russia russia russia narrative which has been disproven and even the thing
with the who was a lanny davis that the lawyer for a cohen and saying that that he has proof
that trump was had advanced knowledge and then he later on he backed off and said he
didn't well cnn didn't retract the story did they they doubled down and and still pretend
it was true it's like they they layer like lies upon lies and they lie about the lies
and put whoppers on top of the lies and you know they're so it's it's just gotten crazy
and they they can't stand it that nobody's paying attention to them because they're totally
discredited so instead people are going to you know alternative media on the internet
and then i gotta shut that down and the u n is getting involved too so it's a it's it's
a challenge for us to really stand up against this now before it starts getting worse because
it will get worse if we don't do something about it now and you know if trump can break
up this month this collusive monopoly and introduce something maybe a internet bill
of rights i don't know but i don't i don't trust government getting their grapple hooks
into the internet either because you know once another obama gets into office they will
use that i know that's why it has to be like a bill of rights right you can have regulations
saying like the first amendment congress will make no law respecting the establishment
of religion or prohibit exercise thereof or the free with the press or the right to assemble
position of government for redress of grievances that that's a law that says you can't make
laws these people are free to do this so we need the first amendment act for the internet
that's what it's called the first amendment act saying unless it's illegal like anything
else you don't have regulatory power over it and it's a third party posting you can
have your terms of service and remove it but but only for reasons that violate law you
can't then interpret and project onto it whatever you want that a valet shown says i don't want
transsexuals teaching three-year-olds that they're different sex that is sexualizing
children that that i hate men in drag and clown outfits that's what it is it's that i don't
want heterosexuals homosexuals anybody sexualizing kids they go oh you don't like transsexuals
no i know i'm a libertarian okay i don't like you involved with the kids stop it so they
change the subject show and then they go oh you're off twitter you're off facebook you
bullied transsexuals because they're public figures but they're so special and protected
they get access to your children so then i ask is it lgbtp because you know every time
i say leave the kids alone stop sexualizing them by heterosexuals the catholic church
any of these groups they say oh you're being lgbt phobic and i'm saying if you're adults
doing things in your own bedroom i'm not phobic okay give me a break and it's an obsession
that you think i'm obsessed with what you're doing your bedroom it's boring the point
is is that it's the sexualization of children so they change the subject you see what i'm
saying yeah it's almost completely well it is completely lyrical so if it wasn't if
it weren't so serious what's what this is all leading to so you know we we all have
to start pushing back as hard as we can and don't give up and everybody get on board
and and use your free speech i mean if this was the second amendment if they had control
over that we'd all have our guns gone by now so we have to make sure that we all keep
speaking out loudly i agree and the only reason we have the second is people stand up for
it if people don't fight for the first we're gonna lose everything so let me ask that question
i agree i don't want government involved but let's quantify that for the second if we lose
the second we lose everything but we're starting to lose it anyway but the guns that mean that
is the cornerstone if they get rid of our guns it's over and they're not going to take
mine i don't disagree with you but i believe the founders were right free speech and the
right to assemble is the right to communicate the message to keep the guns so the two go
together that's whether the first and second like a horse and carriage you can argue what's
the horse what's the carriage i think they're both equally co-equal but they're going after
ben garrison they're going after our free speech so what i'm asking you is if the un
and the eu and the chai comms are already coming with regulations because we've left
a vacuum don't we need regulations saying you we have free speech in america it's not a
regulation for laws that oppress it's the opposite well we should be able to i think
we should be able to sue these guys who have all these these billions of dollars when they
start stepping on our free speech but they say that they're like the phone company you
know they they don't regulate the content you can't sue us but then they do regulate
the content and that's what they do so they can't have it both ways so they jump back
and forth yeah they just they've been the they've been the law and been you know they've
been free speech however they like to to to to uh to match their ends and their end is
always the same it's always the collective totalitarian society that they're they're
in charge of and and able to take away more freedom and liberty from us until we're nothing
but just miserable serfs and then that's when the great calling will begin and they'll
they'll just end up you know i say this and i get laughed at by a lot of my lefty friends
but they're going to end up killing us they want to mess a massive uh you know deep up
you don't have the public basically not working from trying to change that and now they hate
us and they're being trained that we are the food and they say within 10 days 95 percent
of people become cannibals but about five days most people become thieves so yeah no
if a meteorite hit and blew out everything and within 15 days there'd be roving bands
running around eating their fellow humans uh we'll be right back with your phone calls
for ben garrison uh bear that some good points and go back to him on media manipulation
hi i'm dan pilla i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize
my mother's house i sued the irs in one i beat the irs then and i've been beating them
ever since i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with
tax problems they thought might never be solved i can help you too if you owe taxes you can't
pay don't wait another day there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case call 834 no tax
or go to my website danpilla.com that's danpilla.com danpilla.com
it's a no brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water
filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the
original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners
receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 1-877-99 burky
or big burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y
infill wars life is launching its newest product we're really really proud of it it's a best
source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and
for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture
for a life as well as micro zx that targets the yeast the mold and the funguses in the
gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products you get them separately or together and make really really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time and I'm doing this to introduce these
products to you bodies sold out of a month strongest concentrated turmeric formula we
can come up with it sold out for another month and a half we sold it at 50% off till it sold
out and I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber get yours today infill wars
life dot com staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but
sometimes supplements don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce
three and a half ounce and 16 ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom
kitchen or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended
for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier
or oral cleansing formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded
by toxins with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free
is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue
silver immune gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot
com we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered
with even better ingredients ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you
a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits this incredible formula
will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone
broth one of the most popular health trends on the planet built with more than seven different
superfoods and crucial compounds ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles
digestion tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free
radicals this incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such
as turmeric chaga mushroom goji berry powder bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support
your body it's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you get a bottle of
the all new version of a fan favorite product today at info wars store dot com you're listening
to the alex jones show
all right folks we are back live kind of at a batman team today because I sent a clip
I wanted a batman specifically this morning so we're going to show it on tv right now
off my phone because if it happens on my phone it just magically gets out everywhere let's
think about doing a trolling operation where soros text message me good job jones keep
it up in like a split second of it being seen it's like top news story all over the world
and I'm saying that because I'm going to do that troll and people are going to believe
it that I'm going to be able to go back to this and point it out I'm going to do one
with trump too I'm going to wait like a month or something though I'm going to troll the
hell out of it we're back to being garrison and phone calls here in a moment let me pull
it up and text messages here this is the specific one that I want I mean if it is the
same one it doesn't sound like the same one this is the batman original tv theme there
must be like a bunch that say that then because it's not the same one or I'm going crazy I'm
just going crazy I know that first one I heard wasn't it which is whatever I'm I don't care
just remove them all out of the machine then okay doesn't matter what I do want then is
you're out of town a few weeks ago Daria I want those ones I sent of the specific outro
music we'll just do this on air because that's the best place to do everything now I'll start
paying my bills on air I'll start trimming my fingernails on air brushing my teeth on
air it'll all be fine seriously though we ought to be rejoicing more that they've been
trying to hide the censorship like we're complete morons for years it's been getting worse
and worse and now finally it's being exposed Ben garrison undoubtedly the top cartoon political
cartoonist in the world and what other cartoonists are popular now really not a lot I mean he's
really prolific billions of millions of people have seen his work he exposes it all at a
gut level where would you say we are right now 69 days out from this midterm you agree
that it's one of the most important elections ever yeah this is this was a critical but
it's but they're really pulling out all stops at this point to try to turn the tide because
it's been going against them as people have been waking up on mass what Trump what Trump
is doing is not just nationalism in America first he's also de-globalizing the system
and they can't stand that because that's like he's he's tearing back the prop so-called
progress that they've been making for decades on an unimpeded and unencumbered so here is
this kind of a rogue president coming in and he's he's destroying their their sandcastle
kicking it out so what he's doing is of course I'm on that's one of the reasons I like Trump
because it's the decentralized I think we should decentralize a lot of things we need
to decentralize our banking system we need to decentralize the internet we need to you
know bring government back into the hands of people decentralize the you know the education
that everything should be should be more people when you get more local power to the local
people than that the people have more power and that's that sort of ties in with Brexit
when when Britain saw what was going on well wait a minute we're we're paying all these
taxes but we don't have any representation we have oligarchs and Brussels deciding what's
good for us and they've had enough of that and so America needs to have enough of that
too and then start getting our government back and our and our internet back to that
you know that Obama tried to give away well if folks are wondering why info wars is under
such attack nine times out of ten we're the only broadcast that exposes what's really
going on then it comes out later and the globalist can track that back yeah we get ridiculed
we get demonized we get attacked some weak minded people are going to sit there and
see me being demonized and think oh he's losing well George Washington and Thomas Jefferson
were being demonized by the Redcoats you're being demonized by the system that's a badge
of courage we're not trying to win a popularity contest with Hollywood or the Democrats or
the blue blood Republicans and folks need to get that I know most our audience understands
that but some people just don't get it some folks you know that you and I've talked to
her like Jones you're a joke you know you get made fun of everywhere well if you're not
getting attacked and made fun of by the power structure you're not over the target then you
know you know people that have quietly done little things behind the scenes or whatever
that are great and some of its bold they don't get what it's like to be in the arena when
you're a public figure and your name's hanging out there or you were already very successful
I know your whole story you know in major publications and so you became you know a little more libertarian
a little more pro-americana and then they blackballed you from your lucrative you know editorial
cartoons and papers well now you're more successful we've talked about it that you went you know
with your gut and totally weren't controlled but see that's what we're talking about here
yeah I did not get off to a good start Alex because when the trolls went after my cartoons
and started defacing them I just I lost it it's funny I look back at that time where
I wanted to sue everybody and I wanted to you know I would get so angry white hot mad
all day and I you know I was walking around with in a state of fear and anger and that's
a terrible combination of emotion a motion of state to be in but now I look back and
I see these people you know defacing my cartoons and I kind of chuckle it doesn't bother me
in the slightest I wish if anything that our deal taught me some grace you know and I didn't
have much when I started out I mean I just you know when I was when I had this the troll
attack that went on for years I would do anything to make it stop and but now I was like you
know hey I don't care have fun with it but that's only because we work so hard to get
my name out there that people know the difference between the real me and the troll me but you
know yeah let's be clear they put swastikas on stuff it's the same crap they do to me
they put stuff on there you didn't do and try to blame you to get you banned it's just
like Mike Cernovich they now take video where his daughter's in the background comes in
on the live broadcast you know and she's real cute and then they cut the audio in of him
torturing her to try to get him swat team it's what they do folks well when they start
when they start doing what they will like what they did to me a couple weeks ago I can't
a couple days ago I can't prove it it was censorship but boy it sure felt like it when
that plug got pulled and I was dark and they wouldn't give me an answer for nine hours
and then when they finally did they said it was my fault and I oh what you know the site
was working fine now it's something well yeah I talked about this they later said oh you
had too much traffic yeah well that's what they said finally and you know but we've had
a lot of traffic before and we haven't been shut down but we the good thing about this
Alex is I had we've had so many people wanting to help and that is so encouraging to me we
had like I have so much email I haven't been able to answer at all people want to help
both you know sending me donations and and technical advice and approach so we have some
plans now to try to solve this problem so it won't happen again but I had kind of I
kind of like maybe I felt sort of like what you must have felt like when they they are
but you know suddenly and kind of a conclusively pulled the plug on you it's like wow they really
have lost the argument if they're doing that if they're so afraid of what you're saying
that just shows that they're on the wrong side of history that's for sure well then I
love how they denied that it's happening after they launch it they're now saying no one censored
me you know nothing happened no conservatives no libertarians are being censored and we
were already shadow banned 95% plus so once they completely banned me I mean but here's
the problem they're now trying to block videos other people upload that I put up so they're
literally trying to censor everybody else and make sure I'm not there while they lie
about me we'll come right back and I promise Mike Louisiana and others I'll go to your
calls I was good the last hour got a guest on I'm gonna go to your phone calls with
Mr. Garrison speaking of money if we don't get funding they'll shut us down and we are
neck and neck right now with not being able to even expand as everybody knows so I want
to launch the new shows I want to launch a new studio I want to get on more TV stations
radio stations I want to launch a lot of other new things our own kind of YouTube platform
we already had planned now we're accelerating it that's going to cost millions of dollars
over the next year they took our Cridio advertising campaign that was bringing in three million
a year total about a million and a half profit to fund things let's say profit to fund the
operation so we need to be in the black so thank you all for your support we got great
products just like our information is game changing we have amazing products and in full
war store.com 25% off super silver ultimate blue gel very best out there bodies ultimate
turmeric formula about to sell out that is 50% off it was about to sell out 50% off what
you see how amazing it is and we've got the news even stronger ultimate bone broth 50%
off as well those specials will end very very soon these amazing products and you fund the
operation but experience how great they are for yourself at infowarstore.com infowar's
live.com takes you out to the supplements or 888-253-3139.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society several years
ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe I know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new
product is going to end up being the number one best selling product infowar's live.com
because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha
power exclusively available infowar's live.com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non
GMO it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the USA get
your alpha power today at infowar's live.com everybody needs to try alpha power today
fueling your body is hard work that's why we've introduced the info war's life daily
digestive pack to help you fuel it right combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive
there's no better way to power your body flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with
20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible
enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day these incredible formulas can help keep
your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins there's no better
time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body don't
miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info war's life daily
digestive pack today you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life our
organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract
l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the
pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants
to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an
affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head
on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot
com as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional
needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients in stress you may not be able to get all the
necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily that's why info wars
life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of
advanced multivitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system
to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body using
a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated
drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day or
relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins
minerals amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural
and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot
com you're listening to the alex jones show
what i had to do i had to do it even though they banned me and demonized me without exception
without exemption i couldn't back down i planned each chartered course i did each careful step
along the byway and more so much more much more than this i did it my way i did it
my way i sure did levels don't like that very much let's go back to ben garrison and i was
a bad boy i i did go with calls at front now i've hogged the time this segment one more with him
we'll take some phone calls right now barrett called back he's been home for 40 something minutes
you brought up the cia and operation monheber which is all admitted it's obama set up this
office of countering propaganda saying that all these domestic right wing groups are russians
and the cia is separate the sub office of democrats just like they have a sub office
in the justice department this cancer is running this against me and everybody else
and big tech's taking orders from them so that's what i'm saying barrett go ahead great point
yeah um the original act was the smith month's act which was passed in 48 that allowed for
propaganda but there are two senators one in the 70s one in the 80s that they put restrictions on it
that made sure that that propaganda wasn't disseminated to yes and obama took those off two years ago
exactly and so now we basically have the us ministry ministry of truth our own propaganda
center and rex tillerson did a good thing in september he actually withheld funding for the
what what's called the global engagement center and as a result a lot of the people that that
worked there quit so i think that's something else that they need to do is to make sure that that
funding is withheld from the global engagement center and that they you know not be allowed
to expand their operations because like you said you could open source all of google search
algorithm do everything but and but they'll still get their tentacles into it if they can
well and they started getting around this again with george w where they would put fake stories
in the foreign press and have them leak back here uh but but but now it is the cia and foundation
funding with soros and media matters literally interfaced in your google in your facebook
in your twitter all colluding until we talk about censorship now one of their laughing at trump
try and us we're just getting around to admitting their censorship it's it's our own government
rogue the democrats still in power acting like trump never got in waging war against the population
it is sensational let's let's put the zero hedge articles up folks and the m4's articles from a
year and a half ago this is the entire kahuna the cia is working against trump not the whole cia
just like 37 angry democrats have a cabal their own office in the justice department doing this
there is a cia office obama created working against trump and the free press that's the
headline i mean you cannot make this up and i deal with it these aren't wall street journal in new
york times reporters these are cia weird sjw foundation people they're literally on my ass 24
seven lying and they follow me around everywhere and they hate my guts man their ideologues weird
crazy chip on their shoulder crazy leftist people say oh my god are you scared i'm only scared they're
going to win for you and your family i love it are you kidding i want to take on these people i
want to be at the front of the line i want to be in the war baby you can't get me out of this
but i want to win i'm not scared of them but i'm scared of losing ben do you imagine maybe
and you're a great gravitas you should have a limited edition poster with us or something but
but but we also put out viral how do you describe that they're stay behind networks in the justice
department in the bureaucracy of the cia and the board of governors of the fcc admitting they want
to ban all conservatives and steal the election that is so criminal well that's another reason
to start breaking them up i mean the fbi and the cia are so politicized we need to do what
kennedy wanted to do is start atomizing them and and start uh you know removing them from their
you know there's a there's kind of a subtle difference between the deep state and the shadow
government you hear that all the time well the deep state can be epitomized by people like um
you know stroke who's there as a career fbi man pulling the levers of power no matter what president
is in there and they and then after a while they get used to having wielding that power
and slanting it to their own ends and that and that's what's happened to the cia and the fbi
they're not they're they're interested in in maintaining their own bureaucratic power rather
than doing things that are good for the country oh look at this marmy guy i mean come on i mean
that's that's the deep state face golem doesn't look this evil from lord of the rings so well
and then the shadow government is something a little bit different now and i think of the
shadow government i think more of like you know what you were talking about with all the foundations
and the bill de berg and the cfr uh people who are also unelected yeah they're the ones in charge
and then the deep state pulls the levers you just said it yeah but that yeah that's a pretty good
way of putting it but that the caller you just had on right they made some really good points and
boy it's one thing what they did to you alex is that one thing that may be a little bit positive
of it is they've laid their cards on the table and those cards are ugly and that they've really made
their intentions clear and and if they're going to go to a chinese style internet with social
reputation scores i mean where's that going to lead up pretty soon it's going to be well
well you know you didn't properly worship satan so you're going to get a lot of points
well that's it exactly they make it sound reasonable at front and then next it's this this and that
i want to go to michael's they've got a great idea coordinated free speech rallies they kick us out of
the fourth dimension or silicon dimension we go absolutely wild politically not violently
in the third dimension and then put it online as well they can't stop us all michael go ahead
hey alex uh listen i was i had an idea i was wondering what you thought about it um
what if you get like guys like gavin mcginnis you know brandon tatum michael savage and culture
mylo there's a bunch of people all together maybe even shone hannity and tuck across them
maybe even just get as many people together and show that we're going to stand up against this
that's a smart thing conservatives tend to be rogue on their own you know kind of hourly that's
how i am i mean i'm very reclusive personally i go out to eat here and there but i'm not into you
know running around at events trying to get all those folks to come out together it would be hard
but everybody should hold their own people that want to work together should come together i agree
we need to march on google we need to march on facebook we need to march on all these groups
and say we know what you're doing instead of dc they ignore you there we need to march in san francisco
we need to march in berkeley we need to march in seattle we need to march everywhere and show
the ante if i come out and try to stop us from calling for free speech i think it's a great idea
michael that's the best idea yet i was even thinking maybe you could call it you know free
conservative speech rally or something how about just to fend the first amendment you'll save free
speech rally for everybody yeah yeah yeah that by the way sin michael a free t-shirt of his choice
let's get his name and number or you know his email because michael you had the best idea
we need to hit the streets go ahead michael yeah um i would love to see i mean i would be willing
to travel as far as it needs as far as i need to to make you know to be part of that because
we all have to stand up against this it's it's we can't no i agree and we need to do it soon we
need to do it soon we need to do it soon because because we're 69 days out god bless you michael
put him on hold and i'm gonna give him i have this rule he should hold more than an hour get a free
t-shirt but in terms of this whole situation but michael thank you god bless you uh ben garrison
i think that's the key here is put out memes because the ai has trouble blocking those they
admit that so you're the solution and also marching is the solution lawsuits are the solution calling
congress for them to take action as a solution what do you think the number one solution is
take action period i like to march for one thing um of course the mainstream media
would not show that on there on there any of their uh outlets but we don't all the little folks with
live stream making a big post it's like whack-a-mole they can't get us all we're right now of course
you know if they shut down my free speech i can't really do much out here in the boonies i guess i
could i still have free speech but i go outside and talk to a tree or something but let's be clear
you are memes are so king and you're the king of those because yours is the best work
archetypally because you could just send it to me or anybody else they could ban your facebook
or twitter everyone you could just send it to a list of a hundred people bend garrison cartoons
look they fear the meme they've looked at numbers and they know even if they shut the web down
people could put out their own memes and own posters and in a shutdown thing those are like gold
right now there's so much info people like oh i don't care but more and more it's precious you see
ben they yes ben have you looked it up the EU says they fear one thing memes and they they talk about
you you do you understand that brother the ai doesn't get jokes it doesn't know how to block you ben
they don't get uh you know what they don't get is distilled a distillation of verbal metaphors
individual metaphors and then that's that's one thing they fear because that's the something
it's like what hillary going after pepe the frog i mean come on why was she so afraid of a frog of
a cartoon frog and that really made her look bad but she but her but her worry was maybe founded
in a little bit because that that that frog that one you know which you know matt fairy will sue
you now if you use it but that one was had a played a very critical part in the election didn't it
because he really humiliated her exactly the key is iconography we must use the weapon systems of
peace now the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout
for newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version
of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your
heart brain healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill it could become one of our fellow info warriors favorite products
now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including re-dx track your remonte
leaving track and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a
healthy way about all the great stuff that real red pill has it's also got the boost in it get the
real red pill plus at infowarstores.com
do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com when you spread the videos
you are changing the world it's you that has defeated hillary and the glove list it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on
the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of
their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars.com forward
slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical
videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever to share the
info wars.com articles to share the videos to tell people about the local stations you're listening
to but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward
slash newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars.com studios it's alex jones
but i do know about tyranny i do know all about science books and history
so they hate me i'm bragging
hey i like that where they add little rainbow colors it's like light bright
if you love me too what a wonderful world it would be ben garrison the number one hands down
political cartoonist in the world and the old days stuff was just in newspapers and
populations were lower so you can say the greatest editorial cartoonist of all time
i think it was back to rome and ancient china when they had that i've got like 30 more phone
calls and i apologize for not getting everybody but i appreciate you trying to get in uh let's go
to jesse next in idaho jesse you're on the air alex how you doing today good brother
hey uh so i noticed that one of your viewpoints or your main viewpoint has been a false flag
for the silencing i kind of feel like a false flag might play into trump's narrative of uh
strengthening the borders and uh the second amendment but one thing i did notice is that
just before the silencing trump had come out about releasing a lot of the redacted information
in the memos the question to you is do you think that they might be going in defense mode in
preparation for something big coming to the white house that would be devastating to the democrats
absolutely they know trump's getting ready to declassify everything uh they know the economy's
coming back they don't people talking about that and so they want to censor everybody and use my
censoring as a smoke stream while we all debate alex jones instead they're they're basically
censoring everybody else so yeah no that's exactly what's going on and i told everybody
this three weeks ago and now it's happened yeah definitely and uh you know it's not just the
big guys that are being silent too it's just uh small people like me that share your guys's
information i've been banned off of just uh little sites and stuff like that and they're trying to
teach you hey you sit out and you shut up jessey but don't stop do it even more because you're
winning call into c-span call another talk shows uh knock on doors hand out flyers start your own
website cover local news build your own internet uh because again mainstream internet's like 90%
of it like matt dredge warned we have to pull it back like 10 years ago 80% of the web was
individual websites we have to go back to that jessey god bless him what do you think they're
clamping down on i i think it's the midterms i mean i i mean they admit in their own memos they're
doing this to try to make sure the democrats win they're scared yeah they're trying to do that all
right um the the thing about the media is there well one thing is i've noticed that they're they're
starting to leverage toward uh the media's trying to push a war with iran that's very dangerous they
couldn't it couldn't get a hillary end to start a war with russia so now they're trying to justify
the 700 million dollar 700 billion annual budget on the military with a war with iran and i that's
that's a side issue maybe but um there there here's the deal alex um i was talking to my 87
year old mom the other day and she says i wish we could go back to old days with walter krankite now
he was so reliable and you could believe what he told you and i kind of like uh no he sat at the
right hand of satan and walter krankite actually he wanted he he presented himself as a man you
can trust but what he wanted he wanted world government and population reduction exactly i had
to explain the tour i said america they wanted americans to yield their sovereignty that has
never changed the mainstream media the the legacy media the you know the the deep state propaganda
media they still want to erode the the sovereignty of citizens of the united states and replace it
with a globalist system and that has not changed and that trump really threw a monkey wrench into
their plans and and they're gonna be driving hard to the hoop to stop him how and the globalist system
they're bringing in whatever it takes exactly late censorship that's what they're they missed the
days of walter krankite when they could get a grandfather kind grandfatherly man with them
with a nice molyphilus voice to tell you what's true while he sat there and spouted out the lies
but nobody realized it back then did they now we have an internet where we could find the truth so
now they have to shut that down you just reminded me we have the clip somewhere we can dig it out
of our computers where walter krankite says there are those that claim that world government
is the work of satan well then i'm happy to sit here at the right hand of satan thank you david
rockefeller then let's talk soon because i got a bunch of stuff i want to do with you i know you've
been busy i've been busy but you're just great work we salute the work you're doing people can
find you at your great website that's up on uh graphics we knew it was coming the whole thing
was for me leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add
credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like
bullying children and islamophobia and then voila two weeks later ban info wars completely off of
dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars
dot com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever you're
subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com
forward slash newsletter and give us your email so that we can stay in contact with you and send
you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot
com forward slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they can then
reach out to others with the information point out this is the verboten info this is what they
don't want you to see well i think i see another side maybe
maybe
by the way ben garrison just reminded me of something
walter kronkite on c span said there are those that say world governments the work of satan
so i'm glad to sit here at the right hand of satan he was with david rockefeller
this is a world government that takes your rights takes your freedoms for corporations
or tax exempt but you're not and there's a total panopticon internet that controls every action
you are involved in and then penalizes you if you don't go along with what their world view is
which means one child policies no child policies you name it see once you agree to the world social
score that sounds reasonable oh i just got to do whatever ms nbc says we're seeing in then it's
more more more it's social control so i'm in a right shotgun and we're gonna have to start the
next segment that video for you but anybody can pull it up until youtube deletes it just type in
onto youtube.com the good old folks there kronkite glad to sit at the right hand of satan it's one
minute five seconds long the larger one join me i'm glad to sit the right hand of satan
1.3 k views it means 10 billion views and there's another one join me at the right hand of satan
that actually has him introducing hillary clinton with her on the screen saying she is safe and see
i've got all these videos that are admitting world government how they're going to get rid of the
family everything and so it's funny that he raised that because it made me remember something
i hadn't covered in years and years and years and years now mike adams is going to be hosting
this hour uh roger stone has a big breaking news announcement uh here and then he is going to be
gone because he had oral surgery or staying he is in a lot of pain we appreciate him coming on
i was this is such big news uh that he wouldn't be here unless it was an emergency breaking news
so roger thank you for joining us today great to be here alex i apologize if i'm slurring my words
a little bit i haven't been hitting the moonshine i'm still getting over the anesthetic but uh this
is important and i had to make the show tell us the big breaking news my friend well on
monday i joined the alex joneshow and we broke down a an action plan for the president of the
united states now the president has moved on the very first step of our plan which is to discharge
white house counsel don mcgan now don mcgan is the john dean of this administration don mcgan sat
for 30 hours of interviews with robert moeller and his gum shoes don mcgan i can now report
has been the greatest single obstacle to the termination of jeff sessions the greatest single
obstacle to the declassification of all the government documents regarding the illegal
fiso warrants hillary clinton's emails of the emails that whom i abed in forwarded to anthony weiner
don mcgan has been an establishment quisling inside the walls of the trump white house and now
the president announced by a tweet that mcgan would be leaving in the fall well to me we're in
the fall it'll be september 1st here momentarily and i think this is vitally important but what
was disturbing most of all was chuck grassley who i have great admiration for the chairman of the
senate judicia community taking a tweet and saying oh i hope this isn't true i hope the president
is not going to discharge mcgan now alex the white house staff the white house counsel
hope serves at the pleasure of the president of the united states not the chairman of the senate
judiciary committee in fact even suggesting who the president should and should not hire
should and should not fire is a violation of the separation of powers provided for in our
us constitutions well sure next we're going to hear congress say we want to pass a law that
you can't fire again and as you said on monday fire mcgan then fire four deep in the justice
department then any trust moves and that's all being announced by the president it's not just
that we're advising him we've gone to top law firms we do real research we had mike adams
write a report to the president i know god to him that made reportedly somebody at the white
house go really ape trump's finally said resign if you want he knows the truth he's decided to go
into a war footing with the news they're planning to indict his son and now even the former head
of the cia and nsa hayden says back off moeller back off brennan trump has all the power he has
the people the economy's growing we're going to lose this and and you know trump's told people
last night at the prayer of dinner to buckle up for violence the left's coming so i think
trump gets it now and realizes these folks didn't want prosperity they don't want trillions more
in the stock market they want control of america and so now he has put on the armor of god and
is and they are now crapping their collective drawers roger i mean this is a i mean why is it
word for word we're advising is now happening because we did our research and yes we're able
to talk to the president through sources and but i mean it's all happening it's manifesting
this is epic stone well in additionally troubling was uh yesterday when the senate majority leader
came out and urged the president not to fire jeff sessions now while that is true that the
us senate has confirmation authority who the president appoints or fires is none of senator
mcconnell's business in fact mr president not only should you appoint a new attorney general
but you should order him to look into the chinese business dealings of senator mcconnell and his
wife who is unfortunately a member of the trump cabinet the longest serving member of the george
w butch cabinet now serves as transportation secretary does it this signal roger that trump is
getting ready to to to to to politically chopping heads off the fact that he's got the white house
chief council going the fact that he says he's taking the gloves off that it's illegal that
they're on thin ice with google i mean people better know trump means business now well it's
like an ocean liner you know it takes some time to turn uh let's recognize the president is completely
surrounded by advisors who have urged him not to take action not to do anything about internet
censorship not to do anything about a runaway justice department that is under the control
of the obama administration not to do anything about the stunning criminal rod rozenstein
the president i think finally recognizes that his survival the survival of his presidency
is at stake but alex it took the president doing a google search on himself to figure out what's
going on at google to figure out that that all of the search as he said there's nothing about 4.6
growth rate there's nothing about it's all negative crap 3.2 million new jobs i might even be low it
may be 3.4 i'm a little woozy but compare that with the massive job loss of barack obama in
two years the president has cut the deficit virtually in half from around 900 billion
to around five and change that's progress but you won't find that if you do a google search i
know you see in closing mike adams is coming up roger but i mean this is so epic and people
overuse the word epic this is so crazy that that they always act like they want to work with him
and they stab him in the back and all these career politicians are cowards around him
but his instincts are right i think what you're saying is this signifies as you said on monday
just three days ago two days ago he is getting ready to move and boy are they getting scared
what do you make of swamp creatures like clapper and and hayden sing leave him alone oh my god he's
got the power you went too far stop stop i think they realize now that they're in trouble if he
takes action well a terrific piece by peter schweitzer at bright bar i think late last week
clapper brennan hayden these guys make multi millions of dollars out of having their security
clearance because it gives them an enormous bank of knowledge about what's going around the world
so they're moving to protect their dairy airs financially and i think they recognize that
donald trump is a man that you can push only so far if i were brennan i would face up to the fact
that he's going to be wearing an orange jumpsuit for most of the rest of his life uh because he
has crossed a patriot no brennan we got to go further stay there and i'm going to have mike
adams take over in question when we come back for one more second then mike's got his own
undercover but little ladies and gentlemen this is an epic time to be alive this is incredible
mike adams naturalnews.com takes over with roger stone but i want to ask roger via mike adams this
question how soon does he start firing we have graham we have grassley sing go ahead and fire
sessions how long until the the firings happen how does deep state strike back straight ahead
healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan keeping your
doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions navigating the healthcare system has become a
challenge control your own healthcare costs and choices with liberty health share liberty health
share is not insurance it is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs neighbor helping neighbor learn more now by going
to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org if you like alkaline water or know someone that does
you're going to love the dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel
the dylan bottle increases the ph up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water
anywhere you want it alkaline water is healthier tastes better and can even boost the energy the
dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your
dylan bottle today at dyln.co that's dyln.co i tried other brands but i came back to my sunshine
for the best hot or cold pain relief get the best get a sunny bay heating pad sometimes life can be
a pain in the neck or back or shoulder and the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad
did you know that the american college of physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle
pain is heat therapy sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality can be used at home or
at work and have a lifetime 100 positive rating on both amazon and etsy why take another pill many
people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain long distance travel or
long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body our homegrown small business
tries to help people just like us that's why we design and test our handmade products with great
care before we introduce them to the public you can easily find sunny bay heating pads on amazon
just go to amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads nourish a probiotic friendly environment
in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support
overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically
studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments
in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support
your immune system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality
organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning
of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com
or call 1-888-253-3139 we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together
with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us
through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and
chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a
classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and
now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get you want yourself you want your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the
world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you
the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as
focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world
now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
we are in process of developing a whole series of techniques which will enable the controlling
oligarchy to get people actually to love their servitude people can be made to
enjoy a state of affairs which by any decent standard they ought not to enjoy i hope you
would better start from the beginning i hope you would better start from the mic adams and
roger stoner about to take honor this is something very special too many kids are what's making
planet worse a lot of these kids come from bad gene pools they don't have stable parents making good
decisions mercury containing vaccines may help not harm kids according to two new studies in the
journal pediatrics these new studies suggest that the opposite that the preservatives may actually
be associated with improved behavior and mental performance fluoride in water is supposed to
fight tooth decay but could it also cause cancer for example the government had the right under
u.s. law to conduct secret testing on the american public under a specific condition
i have to work with dark side of the well spend time in the shadows any attempt to achieve world
order must be the work of the devil will join me and i'm glad to sit here at the right hand to
say there's a need for a new world order someday in the next few years a solution will emerge
all right since you just heard walter truncate actually introducing hillary and david rockerfeller
at the right hand of satan on c-span why not actually show you the clip itself because
unlike msm we always show you because we respect you because i respect myself here it is world
government is the structure necessary for global justice i'm in a position to speak my mind and
my god i'm gonna do it first we americans are going to have to yield up some of our sovereignty
that's going to be too many a bitter pill today we must develop federal structures on a global
level to deal with world problems we need a system of enforceable world law a democratic federal
world government most important we should sign and ratify the treaty for a permanent international
criminal court pat robertson has written in a book a few years ago that we should have a world
government but only when the messiah arrives he wrote and literally any attempt to achieve world
order before that time must be the work of the devil well join me i'm glad to sit here at the
right hand of satan now i'm turning this over to mike adams and roger stone but remember
we've now informed trump about the internet takeover it's all admitted they think we're idiots
the cia not the whole cia but just like the justice department a small group the cabal
was established in the countering foreign propaganda act and they say info wars roger stone
it's all in their congressional hearings counter us so they set up billions of dollars in the
in the defense authorization act almost two years ago under obama and put up the articles
to shut everybody down to engage in censorship and to set up trusted media like the new york times
washington post cnn media matters that's what they call it trusted to then censor us and be the
censor controllers so the cia rogue democrat officers and the cia created a secret shadow office
it's secret they do the funding is public to then throw elections and block populism that's the
next phase is for trump to remove that and that's why i've been completely banned now back to mike
adams and roger stone with huge breaking news tomorrow's news today thank you alex it's great
to join you and great to have you on roger as we continue here you know we're in the middle of an
epic uprising now against text censorship and what we call the evil centralization false authority
this concentration of power in the hands of the unelected few but roger while you're with us in
this segment let's continue about your breaking news today the maneuvers in the white house now
a question for you right now do you think trump will wake up in time and take aggressive action
before the midterm elections or is he going to listen to his advisors that are surrounding him
and telling him to delay delay because he might lose the election if he if he gets
decisive right now i mean you and i both think he should go for it now but what do you think
is actually going to happen roger well uh mike first of all let me thank you for jumping into
the chair today i'm i'm uh i'm suffering a bit with a tooth extraction but i'm still glad to be
with you uh you know it's an open question mike i have to be quite honest about it what the president
needs to do is not only act decisively but make this election a referendum on his actions take
your argument right to the people don't just fire sessions rozenstein at all don't just
declassify all the decriminating documents but explain precisely to the american people
while you are doing it at the same time what's interesting to me is how quickly the news narrative
can change last week it was all paul manifold michael cone and oh yes roger stone is next
despite the fact that they still have no evidence of russian collusion or wiki leaks collaboration
or any other crime on my part but this week you know it's quite different sorry to interrupt
roger do you think the president has a realistic sense of the degree to which these midterm elections
are already being stolen i mean we've seen paul joseph watson had an article today
on info wars talking about this it's massive election fraud it's being done right now every
day with the censorship does the president have any real idea of what's going on it's it's election
meddling gone awry well i think there's a massive game of keep away going on around the president
therefore it's difficult for us to know exactly uh what he knows although the indications on his
twitter feed are quite positive mike i mean i think he is getting it again it took a search of
himself on google for him to figure out what's going on at google which is the flagship of the
censorship operation but quick reversal here a new focus on bruce war and his activities in
the justice department a new focus on the fact that the chinese hacked hillary clinton's emails
a new fact focus on the fact that her missing emails definitely included classified information
and then and this one really tickles me carl burnstein of cnn formerly of the washington post
one part of the woodward and burnstein duo exposed as a bald faced liar he goes on the air and says
and says uh well the president michael cone will tell robert moeller or anyone else who asks
that donald trump knew about the trump tower meeting between donald trump jr and a russian
lawyer now we know that that's completely false that's the same thing brian ross got fired for
at abc saying that they admitted they were russian agents these people are lying sacks of garbage
so the only thing that's extraordinary is the level of gas lighting takes place and we got two
guys on skype it's while they're walking on each other go ahead mike adams well i'm just saying
the level of gas lighting cnn denying uh that they need to even retract that story carl burnstein
they're protecting his reputation because they have to protect his entire history i'm starting
to suspect that some of his reporting on watergate may have been fake news decades ago as well if he's
faking it now he could have faked it back then that's why they're they're circling the wagons to
protect him now even though everybody else knows cnn lied and carl burnstein lied all right roger
get that toots better we'll talk to you tomorrow mike adams two powerful segments natural news
dot com takes over spread that link they're censoring him as well he was kicked off youtube
months ago info wars dot com news wars dot com if you spread the links if you buy the products if
you take action we are unstoppable it's up to you now if you like alkaline water or know someone
that does you're going to love the dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go
while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel the dylan
bottle increases the ph up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you
want it alkaline water is healthier taste better and can even boost energy the dylan bottle makes it
easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dylan bottle today
at dyln dot co that's dyln dot co most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent
killer in the us what if i told you for just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease
naturally at heart and body extract we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart don't just take my word for it check out all of the success stories at hbx track dot com
or to order call 866 295 5305 that's 866 295 5305 hbx track dot com don't risk it when you can take
charge of it info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our
latest release winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality
vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense
plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free
of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it
winter sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development
took over two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin
d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3
not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function
something the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888 2533139
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus the real red pill plus is an all new
version of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports
your heart brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill it's going to become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your
mod day leave extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way it's got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the boost
at it get the real red pill plus at info wars stores dot com we knew it was coming the whole
thing was for me leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add
credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like
bullying children and islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely
off of the dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds
go to info wars dot com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on
the link whatever you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical
to go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in
contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks
about info wars dot com forward slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten
info this is what they don't want you to see you're listening to the alex jones show
info wars dot com is tomorrow's news today you're listening to the alex jones show
welcome back to the alex jones show this is mike adams filling in for alex in the fourth hour here
with roger stone joining me for one more segment now right before the break i made almost a flip
and comment about carl bernstein and questioning his journalistic credibility because of the lies
that have now been exposed in his byline of a cnn piece that has turned out to be completely
fabricated at least one of the sources was was fabricated there lies about the sources in that
piece roger stone of course has a tremendous amount of knowledge about watergate and carl
bernstein himself so roger go ahead and give us the real story on on that whole situation and
why this is relevant today that bernstein is caught in another lie well mike i'm like an old
warhorse who smells paint uh who smells smoke and therefore i got to jump back into the fray but
you asked the 64 million dollar question the only question now is who's a bigger liar woodward
or bernstein here's the point bob woodward lied about his role in the military lied about being a
military briefer for general alexander haig the white house chief of staff and thus lied about
his knowledge of the watergate scandal carl bernstein just got busted for lying about the
fact that lanie davis was his source for a cnn story which claimed that president trump
knew in advance about the trump tower meeting between his son donald trump jr and a russian
plant who it turns out to have worked for fusion gps so both woodward and bernstein are now exposed
not as the greatest two journalists of the age but as two bs artists busted i am working feverishly
with tyler nixon a nixon family relative on a new monograph that exposes the woodward and
bernstein lies but there is no question that cnn is busted carl bernstein is busted and as bright
bart said there was a staff uprising at cnn if bernstein wasn't such a big foot he would have been
fired and the piece formally retracted but wait cnn says there's no censorship of conservatives
they also said the sky is red yeah cnn and roger is fake the big difference the big difference
between the watergate era and now is that back in the watergate era the liberal media had absolute
control over the narrative there there was no info wars there was no bright bart no one was able
to question the narrative so they got away with everything but today people can question it in
fact you know glenn greenwald is questioning cnn over this and he's not he's not a trump supporter
by any means but isn't isn't cnn committing credibility suicide right now with this and even
carl bernstein himself isn't he going down with his own the ship of his own making in in this case
now i think you've hit it right on the head which is precisely why they want to get the
toothpaste back in the tomb they recognize that the evolution of a robust vibrant alternative
media with info wars as the flagship has led to a great awakening it led to the the viability of
Donald Trump's candidacy and the possibility of his election which is why they want to censor
alex jones why they want to shut down info wars and if we are first the daily caller bright bart
mike savage rush limbaugh tucker carlson shon hanity all the people i like they are next
that's why we are in the epic struggle of all time we're living in a torrent of fake news here
mike i want to break some of this down for you uh in just the last week in just the last week
i was contacted by uh ronan farrow of the new yorker he is was carrying a fake news story that
i already batted down at the new york times and at the washington post it goes like this
on october 1st i called donald trump and told him what was in the coming wiki leaks disclosures
and when they would come out completely and totally false allegedly the source knows this
because trump put me on a speakerphone and he overheard the conversation let's be clear never
happened you cannot tell somebody something you don't know then but now the media roger there the
mode of the media is they don't care what the facts are they don't care who substantiates something
even when in this story when cnn is contradicted by their primary source for their article they
still somehow stand behind their article as if reality doesn't matter anymore it's as if they
just fabricate they just weave fictions and then they expect everybody to swallow it and if you
question them then you're called uh unpatured unpatriotic or an enemy of the first amendment
it's it's insane a white supremacist look and then phase two uh ryan lisa uh formally of the
new yorker comes forward and says uh well michael cone has a tape of he and i discussing the wiki
leaks disclosures that was made in october of 2016 bad news for you ryan i didn't speak to michael
cone at all in the fall of 2016 nevermind october there is no such tape again a torrent of fake
news designed to destroy me uh that's just why i got out in front of it there's a piece on cnn
last night i denied both these things but more importantly come forward with the proof if someone
isn't honestly saying this let's somehow put their name on it who is the person telling the new york
times the washington post the new yorker put your name on it oh you don't have a source it's anonymous
uh who who says that there is a tape of me and michael cone is it michael cone is it
lady davis play the tape let's hear the tape the tape doesn't exist it is a cornucopia of
fake news it is a smear we've seen these kind of smears on alex jones just in the last couple days
they recognize that we are breaking through donald trump is having his great awakening
there's a whole chain of establishment politicians who are about to get tanned and i think they've
figured it out mike i think i appreciate coming back on with you and now i'm going to put my
feet up and pop another percassette because my jaw is killing me but i appreciate you jumping
roger much appreciate you joining the broadcast for the you know get some rest be well you know
you're under a lot of stress and it's extraordinary remember that alan dirshowitz said recently that
the greatest crime now that someone can commit in america is simply having been associated
with donald trump even before he was president and that's why roger stone is being scrutinized
up threatened harassed defamed lied about at every level we're dealing with a vicious malicious
media now i mean they're you can't even call the media they are democrat activists they're
they're trying to carry out a coup attempt against the president that coup has so far failed but they
don't represent the first amendment they don't represent freedom of the media in any way whatsoever
they are abusing those privileges and trying to destroy this country from within they're sowing
poison in the minds of the american people and they're attacking innocent people like our guest
today roger stone so again thank you for joining us roger just be well okay i appreciate your kind
wishes and i want to remind all of our listeners you can go to stonedefensefund.com that stone
defense fund dot com i have a surging marauding out of control federal prosecutor seeking to
destroy me financially and destroy my family but i will never yield i am not michael cone
and i will not roll on the president united states i'm getting ready to rumble thanks again mic
all right that's great to hear roger all right take care now we've got a lot more ahead a couple
more segments here on the alex jones show i've got some very fascinating areas to cover here
including a deep dive into the motivations behind the establishment why are they so
desperately trying to destroy voices of reason and voices of liberty and voices that support our
president it's about much more than just the presidency itself it's about much more than
trying to steal the 2018 elections even though that's part of it it's about more than even
trying to take back the white house in 2020 there is a deeper reason behind all of this and that's
why they are so freaked out and so desperate about this epic uprising among the people right now who
are saying enough censorship enough of us being lied to by the media enough of us being controlled
and dictated to by a corrupt regime we're going to take back this country for real people and
real liberty all of that straight ahead as we continue on the alex jones show don't go anywhere
we'll be right back we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue
info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every
faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide clean
water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system is an
advanced four-stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install and maintain
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your
family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this one filter for clean and
refreshing water all over your home head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first
water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time
to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today you know if i tried
to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have an info wars life it take hours
michael zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other equation in probiotics
it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real red pill it's been
sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your
body then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can upload it
and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine
four to five toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also
swallow it it's a supplement with iodine super high quality silver and a lot more without you
we couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not
just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to
spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
we are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now
if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider a contribution
25, 50, 100, 250 or even 500 dollars would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back
the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle
our first amendment rights hey how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go well
now you could do just that with the new official info wars app and here's the best part it is
absolutely free at the apple store and google play you can join the info war today check it out right
now at info wars dot com forward slash app it's the info wars official app taken on the globalist
at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it we are unstoppable
we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse
bone broth formula to help push you to your limits this incredible formula will help you get the most
out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth one of the most popular health
trends on the planet built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds ultimate
bone broth will help support your healthy muscles digestion tendons and ligaments while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals this incredible chicken bone broth formula contains
time tested ingredients such as turmeric root chaga mushroom goji berry powder bee pollen
and alfalfa herb powder to support your body it's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do
for you get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at info wars store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
before you slip into unconsciousness i like to have another kiss continuing here on the alex
jones show this is mike adams filling in thank you for joining us i've got a very powerful segment
for you here i'm going to get right to it in a second but i also want to plug that this sunday
at six p.m central on info wars dot com i've got a full show called counterthink that's going to
dive into more details of what i'll be teasing here over the next few minutes we're talking about
exposing the false authority of centralized power we're talking about the war on humanity
the war on fertility the war on normal reproduction and also how the 5g network is the extermination
network to destroy humanity by causing mass cancer alzheimer's and other diseases we're
going to do a very detailed dive on 5g and that is this sunday the counterthink show on info wars
dot com at six p.m it's also broadcast on radio and tv affiliates across this nation but check
info wars dot com for the show this sunday i'm going to be going into that it's it's really
extraordinary i've done a lot of research on this topic and i've discovered some bombshell
horrifying things about 5g technology the phase array antennas that they're using and how they
can be weaponized using software to literally target specific individuals in society with
almost what you would call like death ray beams i'm i'm not even making it up it sounds it sounds
crazy but if you if you study the technology and you look at how it works it can be abused as a
weapon system to target individuals so all of that is coming up this sunday at info wars dot com
at six p.m now right now just to to give you my take on turmeric the info wars store has bodies
back in stock the limited supply is 50 off while that supply lasts and it is based on turmeric
curcumin curcumin is the active constituent in turmeric as well as piperine which is an
extract from black pepper and of course the fda restricts just from from saying much about this but
i can tell you if you research the combination of black pepper extract and turmeric you will find
there is something extraordinary about that combination that does things for your body
that no other known combination of herbs or spices can dare accomplish so if you're looking for
maximal joint support mobility support these kinds of issues definitely check that out info
wars store dot com bodies is 50 off back in stock for limited time only also just as a side note
because you know i have my own e-commerce and manufacturing and all that we source raw ingredients
as well and we have a tremendous amount of trouble now finding clean turmeric if you wonder why like
why does bodies go in and out of stock at the info wars store we have the same problem we can't
keep it in stock because the clean stuff is so hard to find and it's so rare that when we get it in
it sells out in like a week and then the only thing that we can find in the marketplace is this
heavy metals contaminated raw material from china or india often india and you know we run heavy
metals tests as as does info wars and we we have to reject like 80 of the lots that we come across
and that's why we cannot keep clean food in stock and people just buy it so quickly when it's when
it's and right now it's on sale so that's a pretty big deal at info wars store dot com
all right getting into now the the deep dive into the reasons the motivations behind this
censorship as i mentioned before the break this is about much more than just trying to steal the
election even though that's a huge deal and that's massive fraud and that's that's a criminal act
being carried out by these tech giants there's more to it now listen carefully on this because this
when this realization hit me it was such a big deal i i had to just step back and think about this
for a second humanity is on the verge of breaking out into a massive wave of freedom of independence
of of self governance humanity has come to learn that we can cast aside the false central
authorities that claim to dominate our lives and try to enslave us at every level and through
every sector of society for example right now we are coming to realize we the people
that we don't need centralized news we don't need the new york times we don't need cnn in fact cnn
is a danger to a civil society cnn is a net negative to society because of spreading false
information lies tearing apart the culture of pushing strife you know a defending violent
groups like antifa now it's incredible we don't need centralized sources of information we're
also coming to realize all of us we the people that we actually don't need a centralized federal
government if you think about it the fact that trump is in there right now is great he is draining
the swamp in every way he can but when he's out of there which will happen one day and somebody
else comes in probably a swamp creature you're going to realize yet again how dangerous a centralized
federal authority is to your freedoms and liberties and it is none other than john w whitehead
who i believe wrote the book battlefield america who has been on this point every day for years
accurately describing the threat to our freedom by an ever expanding government that has weaponized
every agency and every regulatory body the epa has been weaponized against farmers the fda is
weaponized against the natural supplements industry the irs under obama was weaponized
against patriot nonprofit groups the epa think about it it's the environmental pollution agency
they push pollution and they they approve of polluting pesticides and herbicides used in
chemical agriculture the dea you know still trying to criminalize which is in my view a
tremendously valuable natural substance that can be used as a natural medicine and can be
created for very low costs all across the country these federal agencies have way too much power
and we the people have come to realize that we don't need them ruling over us in our lives
and in the same way we don't need frankly a centralized currency we don't need a federal
reserve we we understand the value of decentralized currencies especially cryptocurrency in all its
various forms we understand the value of decentralizing education because government
run schools are just indoctrination centers pushing brainwashing and lies instead of teaching
children the real truth or even the real history even history itself has now been concentrated in
the hands of the corrupt elite in washington dc and in state governments history is twisted and
warped in order to poison the minds of the masses and to make the population hate their own country
think about it these kids in school today they hate america they hate the free market system
they're begging for socialism and communism and they've never lived under it they have no idea
the degree of human suffering the secret prisons the gulags the government torture the government
disappearing of dissidents they have no idea what they're begging for because the education system
poisoned them the answer to all of this is the mass decentralization of every institution
in our world we need to decentralize medicine technology education we need to decentralize
the internet and the tech giants we need to decentralize government we need to have local
control over our lives and our destinies we need to have local people making decisions because
they are the ones who are best qualified to make decisions about what's happening right
there in your neighborhood in your community in your state a federal system is no longer
compatible with the awakening of humanity that is taking place right now and that is why
this censorship fight is so vicious it's not just about trump it's not just about the 2018 elections
it's about them trying to preserve the very fabric of their twisted dominance their false
authority over the masses that's what they are fighting for that's why they are so desperate
why do they go to these great lengths to censor alex jones and take info wars offline and take
me offline you know i was de-platformed even before info wars was on youtube why are they
going to these great lengths why are they banning everybody you know from an colter and and attacking
shawna hannity and all these people it's because they are fighting to maintain control over their
centralized authorities and this false paradigm they brainwashed humanity to believe but humanity
doesn't need that humanity is waking up humanity is casting off the shackles we are about to break
free from this mental enslavement that has affected us all for generations it has been this way for
such a long period of time that some people have forgotten what it's like to live as free men and
women in a free society but that awakening is happening now thanks to the support of people
like you and these platforms like what you're watching right now info wars the alex jones show
you know my operation real dot video all these platforms the mass human awakening has begun
this is why they're panicked this is why they're pulling out all the stops this is
why they're willing to commit massive fraud and crimes and violate antitrust statutes
in order to try to control humanity and that's what i'm going to present in even more detail
this sunday in my counterthink show info wars dot com six p.m central so be sure you don't miss it
there's a lot coming and and be ready for events that are coming as well so thank you for joining
me today this is a wrap-up of the alex jones show mike adam's tear filling in be safe everybody
there's a lot coming the scientist at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory
support and joint support discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one
of the most potent forms of turmeric available turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing
properties our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more
regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients but our
turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients bodies combines turmeric with
organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body
support try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at one eight eight two five three
three one three nine i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few minutes here
first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration
systems or books or videos or other material from info wars store dot com you are funding
the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the
products at info wars store dot com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best
fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot
beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad
the colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple eight two five three three
one three nine and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with
trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are
and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you
you're listening to the alex jones show
