It's only 75 days of the midterms, the most important election undoubtedly not just in
U.S. history, but world history. I have confirmed incredible news just in the last 30 minutes.
On so many fronts, it is unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. This is the front lines of
the fight to restore the republic and bring down the globalist crime syndicate expanding
worldwide. All right, let's get right into the news, ladies and gentlemen, because this
is unbelievable. Next segment I walked in here at 10 a.m. from doing research at my house.
The news came in Owen Shroyers and Roger Stones own private account on YouTube that they set
up like a year ago to have a backup of their own shows, their own commentary, the war room
not connected to my accounts that have all been deleted. It has been taken down and I
had the letter from Google and YouTube saying we showed violence and that only violence
can be shown in documentary format, which means PBS, CNN, they can show violence when they
want to show it to you, but we're not allowed to. It's judged as if it's an evil thing.
And you know the headlines will be Jones or Roger Stone and Owen Shroyer suspended for
bullying children again. It's the footage that we're not even going to show here, just
as an example. So they can't have their way for lawsuits and things that are obviously
being developed right now with very, very serious groups and the president and others
and I will be delivering information to the president today on the Sherman Antitrust Actions
and on the top law firms have put together. I'll just leave it at that. These are top
law firms at the highest levels of the Republican Party. So Facebook, Google, Apple, all you
guys, you're getting hauled up before Congress right now about how your phones listen to
people even when they think they're off. You're not going to get away with any of this. Apple
struggles to reassure feds. Our iPhones are not spying on people. Your own patents admit
you do it. Your own admissions, your own policy reports to shareholders. We've got your ass
and I'm going to send them all those reports as well. You think you're going to shut us
down? You think you're going to kick me off the air? I'll just hand deliver it to everybody.
I'll just become a lobbyist for freedom. The worst you've ever seen, which is a smarter
way to go after you to begin with. I just believe in the people and I've been trying
to reach all of them. So they'd wake up and vote for some people like Trump so we can
turn this country around, which is now happening. When I come back, I'm going to break it all
down. Then Jack Pasobic has confirmed from his sources, investigative journalists with
one American news that they are planning to indict Donald Trump Jr. that Mueller is moving
forward with that, not for the Trump Tower meeting that was totally legal, but claiming
that he misled feds, which they could make up and charge anybody with that. So this is
a true constitutional crisis with 75 days left. This is an insane time to be alive.
But whatever you do, understand, Info Wars is not a loser. Info Wars is not a victim.
We are targets just like Tommy Robinson said about himself. And you're a target as well.
We chose this fight. We're beginning to win the enemy showing their hand out of fear and
is engaging in incredible crimes, but it's hitting just like you have white farmers
being slaughtered all over South Africa and their land being taken and the British government
agreeing with it. And Trump says it's wrong. The media demonizes him. We showed footage
that the national news can show. But again, that they're saying Info Wars can't because
of the subjective question of saying, well, we think you show footage of when we went
and looked at the three hour show they banned, we scan through it. The only thing is a black
man beating up a white man in a store and calling him racial names. If that happened
to a black person or a white person that showed on the news, wouldn't it? And then it looks
like a teenager with the black teacher hitting him in the head with a mop that's been all
over everywhere. Everybody else can show it. They're going to show it on World Star Hip Hop
and go, yeah, get that cracker head. But you can't show it here and say it's wrong and
show the FBI crime statistics for every white person attacks a black person. A white person
is attacked 12 times more often. It's very, very sad. Stay with us. We'll be right back.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. Info Wars
is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet,
shower and sink in your home. That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water
for your whole house with one system. The Pro Pure whole house water filtration system
is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration
for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy
to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water
supply and away from you and your family. With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction,
you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home. Head
to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure whole house filtration system today.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the Info War.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have extremely brave news for you. Roger Stone, as you know, is
at the center of the fake Russiagate investigation. It's really meant to steal back the popular
selection of 2016 of Donald John Trump and the whole turnaround of America. Donald Trump
Jr. is set to be indicted by the Mueller kangaroo grand jury directly out of the DC swamp and
this is meant to push the president into a constitutional crisis. They're going to indict
him for lying to the FBI, giving misleading statements. Again, you have a pack of Democrats
running this over 37 of them now, all Democrats except for Mueller, who is a swamp creature
put in by Bush to cover up 9-11, who famously was engaged in a lot of other big cover-ups.
The world exclusive was posted yesterday, Mueller preparing to indict Donald Trump Jr.
Everyone needs to get the video and get it out and post it on every other platform. They
are only trying to de-platform Info Wars and thousands of other major conservative and
libertarian nationalist groups ahead of their main move against America. Mueller goes back
on both sides of his family to the top robber barons that owned and ran the major railroads.
Look it up. He's actually related to Anderson Cooper, who's an aster. He's an aster. You
can go back even. It's bizarre. Chevy Chase is an aster. I mean, it's just this whole
group out of New York, folks, total absolute blue bloods. And they just think they own
this country. This Grayson discredited Bob Mueller and his whole gang of angry Democrat
thugs spent over 30 hours with the White House counsel, only with my approval. And he waived
his second privilege for purposes of transparency. Anybody needing that much time when they know
there's no Russian collusion is just someone who's, again, desperate and knows they have
nothing, no collusion. And ladies and gentlemen, that's the issue. They now have Cohen, who
it turns out was running his own criminal enterprises he pleads guilty to at a taxi
place, no connection to Trump, $20 million laundered money. And then you've got him trying
to record Trump over the years. He's probably been an informant against Trump for five years,
I would guess. Well, he's sneaking in trying to set Trump up like, yeah, we got to pay
this lady off financing. I'm not doing financing. What are you talking about? That's the dirt
they've got. And now he says, I'll say Trump's a Russian. I'll say there's collusion. You're
a stool pigeon. You're an indicted, already informant against the president. You're a
snake. You're a dirty rat. But again, Donald Trump Jr., a total patriot, total patriot for
this country, now in the enemy crosshairs, trying to make the president roll over and
say, I'll do what your agenda is. We'll take TPP back. I won't have tariffs on China that's
ripping us off. I'll let you teach, you know, five year olds that they're the opposite sex.
I'll let you do whatever you want. Just leave my family alone. But you know what? DJ T is
not going to do it. Watch DJ T is going to focus and come out swinging and counterpunch
like they've never seen. I can tell you right now that these globalists aren't going to
fare too well when they pull us. I'm going to stop right there. I'm not going to say
anymore. Okay, guys. Okay. We understand. Muller, America's been asleep the whole time
and you think you can sit there and have your way with it, but that's just not the way it's
going to go. Great again. Target CEO raves about the economy. This is the best consumer
environment I've ever seen, but that's a big liberal. Texas exports oil. Texas exports
more oil than imports for the first time in US history. Trump's tweet on South African
land seizure draws ire. Ask Pompeo to study farm murders and the taking of land because
other nations other than Russia won't take in the hundreds of thousands of begging farmers
who are being slaughtered. That's all coming up. But then the big news, Paul Watson is going
to be joining us at the bottom of the hour with some huge news on the massive Soros-funded
EU controlled UN driven Islamic invasion of Europe and new shocking footage. In the next
segment, I'm going to get into Roger Stone and Owen Schreuer had their own war room YouTube
not set up by M4s, but set up by Owen a year ago to have their own channel. And it was
given its third strike. All of this has been completely made up for saying that they showed
violence. I'm going to cover that in the next segment. And what was it? It was a black man
beating a white man up for no reason and saying racial epithets. And it was a black
teacher and we're not going to show it because everybody else can. But we're not going to.
We're going to play the little games. Everybody else can see it on Twitter, see it on Facebook,
see it on YouTube, but we can't show the black lady hitting the white teenager in the head
with the mop. Local news can show it. But let's see if they say that I'm the black lady
beating the white student because, you know, they took me off YouTube saying I bullied
a child and Forbes and others said that I beat a child in Missouri. I mean, it was,
it was a guy with a beard like me, but it was on ABC News, CBS News a month before they
banned me where it was that the kid was beating other people up. He was hitting the adult
in the face. The adult pushed him down. They said that I and people I had family call.
They said, you beat up a child. And I said, no, I didn't. So they'll probably when this
is in the news, Roger Stone and Owen Shroy are banned for beating up a child. And it's
a, it's like about a 15, 16 year old white male and the black adult woman hits him in
the head in the classroom while he sits in his chair with a mop as black people dance
around in circles celebrating. We're not going to show it though. And it'll probably be Jones
or Roger Stone beat a child in the head with a mop. He beat a baby in the head with a mop.
He took the baby out of an incubator and bashing his brains out. Then he, you know, he danced
in their blood. I mean, this is what they do, folks. Did you hear? Yeah, I heard Jones
beat up another kid. Well, he got taken down. None of it has any reflection on reality.
So I'm going to come back and show you the actual Google letters. And they even sent
it to Owen's laptop, his private laptop and said, you're now banned from Google services.
This is a new thing. We've never seen this. So, so the new thing is banning you from
the service with your web ID. And they're telling everybody with a new communist, Chinese
social score, you keep your mouth shut and you don't support Trump or you're not going
to get in college. You're not going to get a job. You're not going to have a LinkedIn
account. You're not going to have a bank account. It's happening to everyone. But don't worry.
I forgot my folder. It's right by my office bathroom on the desk by the bathroom door.
My green folder. You please bring it to me. If he doesn't already have it, it was produced
yesterday. The president is about to get the action plan. And it's 100% action plan. None
of you will get out of any of this. So get ready for that. And I'm going to go ahead
and read the action plan on air later. I'm going to post it in full wars.com. And let
me tell you, I expect they'll probably launch a hack attack or something. Try to shut us
down today because of this info, but no one's going to stop this signal. I can get it directly
to the president. I get it directly. Anybody I want in the government. When this goes out,
it will immediately be at army special operations command. It'll be at South com sent com. It'll
directly be on all the computer screens of the officers in the military. And that's why
you're really crapping your drawers now. Aren't you? Yeah, you know, they know. So good luck.
Your people won't do the work. I'll do it. My lawyers will do it. Our researchers will
do it. Our teams will do it. That's why we've been taken off the internet. That's why we're
being demonized. That's why we're being lied about. That's why we're being attacked. Because
we carry the light in the dark of the night. We have the facts. We have the information.
We have the ability. We have the focus and we're taking action. We're running giant
specials in info war store.com. We have some new great specials 50% off on our new ultimate
female force, ultimate formula for stamina, libido energy out of the gates. 50% off. Other
leading formulas are even as good or $60 $70. It's $34. It's a two month supply bremming
to the top. You get this for your wife, your girlfriend. You name it. It's amazing info
war store.com. Come on in here, Rob. Skip it to me in fours life.com. And we have 50%
off the new formulated ultimate bone broth. Incredible 1995, but not for too much longer.
Here's the green folder. Look, here's the green folder. If you like alkaline water
or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dylan living water bottle. It creates
alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money made with surgical
grade stainless steel. The Dylan bottle increases the pH up to nine to deliver both alkaline
and antioxidant water anywhere you want it. Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better
and can even boost energy. The Dylan bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy
and achieve optimal hydration. Get your Dylan bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge. Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty
Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self pay
patients who unite with like minded people to share the cost of each other's medical
needs. Neighbor helping neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's
libertyoncall.org.
Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required. Proprietary
value added packaging provides 10 year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center
cut fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at readytoeatbacon.com.
Ready to eat bacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berky Purified
Water. The Berky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. For incredibly
delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberky.com. We call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653.
Go Berky.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques. Based
off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've sourced only
the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee beans. Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used
in big agricultural productions, Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great
depth to give you just what you need in the morning. You can even choose to start your
morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with a powerful blend to support
your immune response and stamina. It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get
a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at InfowarsStore.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Ladies and gentlemen, you are getting a world exclusive right now. The Democratic Party,
the Communist Chinese, the deep state are all publicly trying to hack the 2018 midterm
elections. They are purging thousands of prominent conservatives from Prager University to myself.
They are shadow banning everybody, members of Congress. They're ratcheting them back,
93% on average. Infowars is being totally banned. Democrat senators are all over the
news saying, completely take me off of the internet. Well, Owen Troyer and Roger Stone
a year ago set up their own YouTube account separately on YouTube for the war room that
launched just about a year ago. Owen Troyer posted the full video yesterday from his three
hour show of the war room. Trump now toe to toe with the globalists in the fight for
America full show. Now, they then say that we showed violence that's not authorized unless
it's for documentary purposes. Just like they banned me off YouTube saying I bullied a kid
and Forbes said I beat a child up. There was no child. I didn't beat him up. It was an
ABC News clip of the kid in Missouri hitting the adult four times. The adult pushes him
down. Everybody else could show it. They took it down so they could then lie about what
that's how the fraud works. They silence you to then frame you. And it's all directed
by David Brock and media matters. He admits it all in his own admission in this restricted
private confidential document that came out last year. Document cam shot please. So Owen
calls me this morning and he says, yeah, our videos have been taken down. Then he gets
a message from YouTube saying as you may know, our community guidelines describes what content
we will allow and don't allow on YouTube. Your video from now toe to toe with the globalist
in the fight for America full show was flagged for review. Upon review, we've determined
that it violates our guidelines. We've removed it from YouTube and assigned a community guidelines
strike your account, which banned the account. Now look, then we get this unable to access
Google product when he came in here on his own laptop has a web ID and says you're just
banned from Google period. Unpersoning the Chinese global social score. You see that?
By the way, the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. We have received
over 3000 emails from Google saying reinstate your account. It was taken down an error reinstate
your account file a file a challenge to this because we didn't have any strikes when they
took down the Alex Jones channel and we have screenshots of all that. So it was done so
high up that the automations like we believe this is an error, please file a appeal and
it just keeps coming. We have that video actually in the computer if you guys want to roll the
footage of just our account and it just every 10 minutes or so. Another one goes over and
over again because they're not running it. Media matters is in control and brags. They're
in the interface with the Southern Prairie Law Center in the interface filing their own
public complaint and having their people go in and delete us. Now, think I'm making
that up. Here it is document cam shot please. How Alex Jones. How Alex Jones is circumventing
his Facebook man. So this is them tattling to Facebook and tattling to YouTube. I'm literally
walking through the studio Rogers on I go and make a joke about Bernie Sanders and then
they go, oh, look, he's circumventing. No, Facebook said our four main pages are banned.
Not that I'm banned from the platform, but media matters spins it like Jones is banned
period off Facebook and off of YouTube. You understand how that works? And so then they
run around and tattle to Facebook. They haven't taken Owen's channel down yet and they go
and they tattle to YouTube saying, look, he's supposed to be unpersoned. And that's what
they're saying. Jones isn't allowed to go on Joe Rogan show. Alex Jones isn't allowed
to go on any of your shows or you'll be banned. So they're not saying you don't have speech
and I'm unpersoned. Even Charlie Manson, we would get to talk to the news if he wanted
to. But they're saying, oh no, you can't hear what Jones is saying because they're going
to tell people that I beat up kids in Forbes with no footage, no link. They're going to
tell people that I'm a white supremacist all over the news. They're going to tell people
things that aren't true and they don't want me responding. Just like when they said Trump
hates all Mexicans but won't show the clip. They don't want him being able to respond
to their liars. When you say you're a liar, they go, oh, you're attacking the press and
going to cause violence. When I say Antifa says they're coming to your house to attack
you. What do they say? Oh my God, Jones is going to attack the media with guns. Well,
where's the clip? Doesn't exist. This is the fraud. So look how Alex Jones is circumventing
his Facebook ban. No, they took those pages down and then it goes on to say he's on YouTube.
He's on Facebook and he's been taken down for bullying the same lie that I beat up a kid.
And YouTube takes us down saying, yes, you've shown violence when we showed what's been
on the national news, black on white crime that's increasing because of the media. It
goes on to say I made an impersonation of Bernie Sanders. I continue to, by breaking news in
part by ranting about the supposed existence of gigantic left-wing pedophile conspiracy.
My God, look at the news. And doing an extended impersonation of Bernie Sanders. But don't
worry, they reported it and got it taken down. Do you understand? And then YouTube said,
oh, yes, thank you, George Soros. That's who funds it. Thank you, Nazi collaborator funded
organization. Thank you so much. Yes, yes, he's not supposed to be on YouTube anywhere.
No, he's not allowed to be on Owen Shroyer's own YouTube channel. We'll take him down
right now. We'll find wherever he is and take him down. And then they use the fake rule
of, hey, they don't say media matters ordered you to be taken down and they run the country
basically and brag on their own documents that they are the interface and they're in
people's private communications. No. They just say, oh, you violated our rules. You could
show violence if it's for a documentary reason and every other news channel can. But if you
show black people beating up white people yelling epithets, we're just going to say
you violated our rules on violence and we're going to take you down selectively because
media matters said so and our executives have told us you do what they say and Google and
Facebook and all of them brag. They're told what to do by media matters and the mercenary
David brought who gets money from George Soros to run the whole thing. And it's all admitted.
Now if that isn't racketeering, if that isn't organized crime, if that isn't the Sherman
Antitrust Act, nothing is. And I have top law firms ready to go with this with no payment.
They're ready to go and they're going to have class action suits against everybody. And
I have it all right here in my hand. And this is now, now I've been told has been delivered
to the president. So the president now has this. And we've been requested to develop
battle plans. And this is from a top law firm, top Republican law firm. And they say it is
open and shut 100%. This isn't just uncivil. This is criminal. But here's the thing. They're
making their move on President Trump. They don't care. This is their revolution. They
think once they win the midterms, they're going to start impeachment, civil unrest.
They don't care. So that's a concern everybody that they are going this hardcore criminal.
This lying about everybody, racketeering, organized crime, classic rackets behavior in
your private accounts, private groups, pouring over what you do, misrepresenting it, getting
you banned across all these platforms. This is illegal, totally illegal. No one's ever
done this before on an organized scale like this. That's because they're going for broke.
Listen to what Chris said about Andrew 400. I've lost almost 40 pounds in 10 weeks. My
son was getting married. And when I went for the suit fitting, I was the size 48. And when
I went back to do the final fitting, I was a 44. I have more energy. That's for sure.
I probably lost four inches around my belly. I'm 57. And I'm back when I was in my 30s.
Here's what Dwayne said about Andrew 400. This product really works. I'm an old guy
and I don't trust nobody. And I've tried all kinds of stuff. It's one of the few things
I've ever bought that work. I couldn't believe it. I feel better. I have more energy to walk
12 miles a day. I feel great. It changed my life. It really has. It's really incredible.
Guys, if you'd like to lose belly fat, gain energy and feel great, try Andrew 400. The
safe, natural and affordable way to boost your testosterone. Go to Andrew 400.com or
call 888-400-0435-888-400-0435 Andrew 400.com Do you realize that when you spread the links
from infowars.com, when you spread the videos, you are changing the world. It's you that
has defeated Hillary and the globalist. It is you, the info warriors across the planet
that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against
the threats that have now changed the world. And that's why you've been on the team supporting
us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the info ward. And now because of
their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between
us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it. And so now I ask
you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people
about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the Renaissance and
we are winning. We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with
our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave
us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing the shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds
from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports
the info war. It is a classical 360 when this is the formula that I personally have
been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it
comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to
your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay
as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant
of America to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused
as you can be. Thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield InfoWarsLife.com.
Feeling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine flora life everyday maintenance and
carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients
you receive. There's no better way to power your body. Flora life is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with
carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and
outside toxins. There's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well
they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support
recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. Live from Austin, Texas,
Texas.
Media matters literally funded by George Soros and Braggs and Google, Facebook, they all
admit that they run, one of the southern private law center. The interface, in your private
accounts watching everything you're doing, then they go out and flag it and they have
own operatives, delete your channels. And they're saying that they're going to delete
Alex Jones and delete channels of anybody that has Alex Jones on the channel. That
is beyond a First Amendment violation. That is putting someone in exile. That is putting
someone in the fandom zone. And it's telling everyone, you have no free speech. You're
not allowed to talk to this person. You're not allowed to interview this person. Remember
Charlie Manson, Tim McVeigh could be interviewed. But they're saying you cannot talk to Alex
Jones. And most people are saying, absolutely, we don't want free speech. We don't want America.
And then they go, good, we're going to take thousands more people off. They're like, it's
okay, just leave us till last. This is all conditioning. This is all Pavlovian. This
is all total control. And President Trump is beginning to take action with suits over
Facebook's discrimination and what Google is doing. They need to take action quickly
because we're only 75 days out from the critical election and they're trying to steal the
election right now. Paul Watson joins us from London, England on a big report he's got
up on infowars.com dealing with the ongoing UN slash EU run program with literally millions
of North African and Islamic migrants from the Middle East coming in every year. And
they're reporting everywhere. Paul, as you know, it's up on infowars.com and newswars.com
as well as Europe Wars where we have reporters in Europe that what's amazing about this is
the numbers are worse than it was even a few years ago. This is an even bigger wave. But
thank God, some Eastern European countries are putting troops on their borders. Give
us the latest on this in the shock footage that's on infowars.com of the acid attacks
of these intensifying situations of the bum rushing of the guards. Tell us what's happening.
Yeah, this is suited in Spain, Spanish owned territory. It's in Morocco geographically,
but it's Spanish controlled. They're crossing in from Morocco. They're not Moroccan, obviously
you can see that they're not Moroccan Spanish police are warning that there are 50,000 of
these migrants are all from African countries, mostly waiting to cross in. This group went
back that you see in this video allegedly they were sent back, but hundreds more a few
weeks before got into the country, we played that video before of them just roaming around
the streets. So basically what happened is, these European countries saw what was happening.
They saw the rise in rape, the rise in violent crime, the molestations, the terror, and they
blocked off their borders. So a lot of these migrant routes were getting blocked off the
route, the Mediterranean route was getting blocked off because Salvini, the new interior
minister of Italy said, we're not going to accept anymore. So then the socialist government
of Spain, which just got elected a couple of months ago, came out and said, we'll take
them. We don't have enough crime. We don't have enough rapes on the streets. We don't
have enough women afraid to go out at night. We'll take them all. And so that's what's
happening. They've laid out the red carpet incentivizing people risk in their lives.
That's what most people don't realize about this. When you incentivize people to risk
their lives to make long journeys, you are putting their lives in danger. That's not
a humanitarian thing to do. The number of sea deaths since the new Italian government
got in has halved. So half the amount of refugees are dying. But no, that's a bad thing, apparently,
according to the left. So this new Spanish government apparently is really eager to get
the rape stats. So we just had new rape stats out of Sweden. Nearly 60% of those convicted
of rape or attempted rape in Sweden are foreign born. And then when you look at the stats
for rapists who the victim doesn't know the attacker in a rape situation, 80% are foreign
offenders. This is in Sweden, another country which opened its borders to mass migration
and accelerated that process a few years ago. So apparently Spain wants a piece of that.
They've rolled out the red carpet. And that's why we see these videos of them just showing
up on boats. As you see in this clip here, roaming onto the beach, you know, Spain had
an ISIS terror attack just a year ago. There are plots that they're stopping all the time.
How easy would it be for ISIS to just roll up on a beach like that and massacre a bunch
of beachgoers, given that they've got no security whatsoever? So basically this entire
issue has been framed as a refugee crisis. It isn't a refugee crisis. A lot of the actual
refugees are now going back to Syria because ISIS has been kicked out of different geographic
areas. These are economic migrants. You see more smartphones in this video than you do
women or children. They're not refugees. They're economic migrants. And granted, if I was from
some of the countries that they come from, I'd probably try to get into Spain. But if
you import the third world, if you import Africa, you become Africa.
And Paul, the UN admits it's all part of a major plan to bring in groups that don't
assimilate 80 plus percent stay on welfare to be a client group that the social states
control. Exactly. They had a UN projection from back in 2001 saying, oh, the US may be
able to take in I think it was 6 million migrants over a certain amount of time. They then claimed
that was fake news. And because, oh, the UN didn't say that they were specifically going
to do this. They just said it was possible. It was 600 million Paul directly from your
report. And then Snopes said, well, they did say it, but they don't mean it. So that's
why we're fake news. That's what Snopes does. They'll say the sky is not blue, but then
later at the bottom, well, actually it is. And then they're the facts checkers for Facebook.
I literally wrote an article during the election about I forgot what the story was, but I provided
a quote by this Hillary Clinton supporter. And then Snopes did an article on it saying,
oh, no, that was fake news because he didn't mean to say that. And then they invented a
quote and attributed it to him so they could declare the story fake news. But that's aside
from the point. Sweden again, as he mentioned this plan, 2% of Sweden's political leaders,
political candidates, just 2% of them live in high migrant populated areas. So again,
we come back to this every time they push these policies because they don't bear the
brunt of these policies. It's the working class people that bear the brunt of these policies,
which is pretty ironic because they're always demonizing the working class in my country
as being racist. These are the people, if you talk about white working class people,
who live amongst white working class Muslims, who live amongst white work, black working
class people as well. These politicians pushing these policies, these middle class lefties
pushing these policies. I've researched where they live. All these big celebrities that
attack me, they always live in the whitest areas possible.
Let's talk about this, Paul, since you mentioned it. Just two years ago, they still denied
no go zones. Now it's all over the news. Sweden, France, Belgium, huge no go zones. The police,
the letter carriers, food delivery trucks can't go in because everywhere they literally just
get robbed and many cases killed. Yeah, numerous, I think there's a couple of big postal companies
in Sweden, so they weren't going to deliver to certain areas. Rape in Paris have gone
up 20% in the first five months. The last time they did the check, the first five months
of 2018, rapes in Paris are up 20%. Remember, back in 2015, after Charlie Hebdo, the mayor
of Paris tried to sue Fox News. She eventually dropped it because they had a guest on who
said that there were no go zones in Paris. Literally, they've got an area in Sandiné
which has 300,000 illegal immigrants in one area of France. Women are harassed on the
street. As I said, rapes are up 20%. Oh, but there are no no go zones. Oh, you can go there,
but you might get raped or violently attacked, but there are no no go zones. That's the
little trick they play. So yeah, we're facing the consequences of this. Certain countries
have actually imposed proper border controls. Others haven't. And going forward, those are
the ones who are going to experience the fallout from all this as we're seeing in Germany, in
France.
That's right, Paul. We're going to break and you were going to punch out here and get
some other big articles coming to infowars.com and newswars.com. Just in 30 seconds. What
do you make of them at Media Matter, snapping their fingers and then taking other people's
YouTube channels down where I was a guest for five minutes and made a joke about Bernie
Sanders?
Well, it's an abuse of terms of service. They should have their accounts canceled if they're
lobbying for this to happen because that is that's brigading. It's an abuse of terms
of service. So people should report media matters and their accounts because they're
abusing the but media matters also has their people working inside. So this is not a fair
system. Thoros never does that.
We knew it was coming. The whole thing was for me like first demonize info wars, lie
about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake
strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then voila, two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds. Go to infowars.com, forward slash
show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing
to your podcast in, it'll pop up there. It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward
slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send
you videos and articles on our own platform. But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com,
forward slash show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they
can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see info wars life and info wars life.com is extremely
excited to announce our latest release, winter sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D three
winter sun is a premium quality vitamin D three nutritional supplement. It is produced
by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens. Every batch is analyzed
for purity and D three content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if
you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it winter sun is the result of our
pursuit of the best source of vitamin D three. The research and development took over two
years, but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin D three
product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com about winter sun vitamin D three. Not only
does vitamin D three promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and brain
function. Something the globalist are targeting. Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage. And that's why we need you to go to the site
now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals. Please consider
a contribution 25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they
want to strangle our first amendment rights.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth. Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse
bone broth formula to help push you to your limits. This incredible formula will help
you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet. Built with more than seven different
superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy
muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against
free radicals. This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients
such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, gochiberry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder
to support your body. It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get
a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign
and domestic, it's Alex Jones. I'm going to say right now on air, the most important
thing I've ever said on air since I started out 24 years ago, and it's this. This is
a spiritual battle. You better get right with Jesus. I wouldn't fear he who can kill the
body, but he who can kill the soul. Let me tell you, I've always believed in God and
I've had spiritual experiences and there's a lot of mysteries in this world. A lot of
people know they have the sixth sense. There's a lot of mysteries in this universe, but studying
the globalists, studying how they operate, studying their operations, you come to grips
with the fact that they are absolutely committed to evil and doing bad things, that they are
out to hurt the planet, hurt you, hurt God and just commit evil acts. Now, that's the
most important thing, but currently in the world events and evil moving against humanity
right now, it's this statement. The globalist, the big banks, the chai comms, their army of
radical Islam, the giant third world populations they now control who are they are using as
unwitting pawns, as well as radical Islam, are moving against the West and are moving
against you. You're having your free speech taken. You're having your birthright taken.
They're attempting to set the president to deplatform you and unperson you in a science
fiction level Chinese communist tested American and EU designed panopticonic social credit
score system to be tied into every action you take in your entire life with the Alexis
and the Google assistants listening and watching you, the cell phones watching and tracking
you. It's all admitted. Congress is having hearings. The Samsung TVs are watching and
listening to you. Their own terms of service. When you click it, say it, it's a giant technological
power grab and they've been building up their armies of control against us for all these
decades. And now they are moving against everybody. This is the big launch. This is the big attack.
They are making their move on the West. Patriots in our government saw it, understood it, took
action against it. Trump and other nationalist movements are a speed bump to this system.
The globalists believe we hope a stop gap to have a real discussion about this and get
humanity awake and thinking. Now I'm going to go to part of a very powerful Mark Dice
report where he just lays out the arrogance of this situation. Then I'm going to have
Owen Schreuer in here later to actually talk about this report in full. But the arrogance
of Brian Stelter, who literally has like 50 retweets, even though he has CNN and Twitter
pushing him. And then Mark Dice has, you know, 10,000 on average. And then here's Brian Stelter
wanting us all removed because of the competition. It's so obvious. It's so ridiculous. It's
so dirty. It's so villainous, but they're doing it. And if you accept it, you'll accept
anything. Here's Mark Dice.
The company is rethinking the core functions of the platform. And he just sat down with
CNN's little Brian Stelter to talk about some of the changes they're thinking about making
because, well, the Trump train is just too popular. And our messages and our activists
are just resonating with too many people.
Is your Twitter feed sick? These days, harassment, hate speech and misinformation are poisoning
social media. And Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey seems to know this. He's trying to cure Twitter
of these ills. But how? At a rare interview at Twitter's headquarters in San Francisco,
I asked him.
We thought, you know, well, people are following you. So we should count them. And then we
should put that count right on your profile page. And obviously people care about that.
So we should make a big, but that one small choice. And it felt very small at the time.
And it felt obvious at the time, put an incentive to grow that number. Is that the right?
Right. It costs attention.
So what they're saying is how you vote or how you write things or what you want is bad.
So we're going to get rid of that. Like they did for Sarah Silverman and all these failed
shows that are on Netflix. They just stop showing the stars. And now that's, and then
the next thing is they'll show fake stars and fake views. But that's not going to work.
So he then gets into stelter has no numbers and stelters like, and by the way, those are
stelters words. Mark, Mark Dice is just lip-syncing it in perfect real time to add an extra little
element of, uh, you know, making a joke out of it. Here it is.
I don't think it is today. I don't think it matters as much in context of how many conversations
you have or how much you contribute back to the network. Let me just translate his mumbling
for you in case you didn't quite understand it. I have about 330,000 Twitter followers
because my commentary spread organically, naturally through the platform because people
liked it and people shared it and slowly, but surely I am asked to pretty sizable following.
But that shows that what I say people like and that have a pretty powerful voice. And
so they're considering hiding the number of followers that people have so that people
can't judge how popular a certain account or certain person or personality is. As you
know, not only does the number of total followers indicate to some extent how popular a certain
account or person is, but also the engagement of their posts, how many likes, how many retweets,
how many responses those tweets get. If you look at the feed of someone like CNN's Chris
Cuomo, for example, who has a prime time show on the network, most of his tweets get between
100 and 300 likes. Just looking at a few recent random ones here, this one has 182 likes.
Here's a couple more, 279, 136, you get the point. Let's compare that to a few of my most
recent tweets, which I posted on my laptop here in my kitchen. Oh, wow, that one has
11,000 likes. This one, 1.4,000, 2.8, 14,004.5, 1.2,3.9, we're going to come back with the
rest of this that he did last week. I just saw it last night with Owen Shroyer when
he's in the studio. When we go to Brian Stelter, he gets like five retweets, okay? And this
is like fully pushed on CNN, five retweets. They're over, they're done. Now they're just
like a burning car that rebels roll down a hill into your house to burn it down. They
just go around lobbying going, we're CNN, take Alex off. Google goes, yes, master. Stelter.
Actually on the video going, where are you going to get him off? Where is Alex going
to be going? He's getting 10,000, 15,000 retweets. I get five. I want him off. These people are
unbelievable. Look at the look in his eyes. A crazed, unpopular, lying demon. The other
thing, we'll kick you off Twitter if you bully him. He's a public figure, a monster, lobbying
to have me completely silenced. He's the tyrant, just like these big tech giants that are moved
to China and are helping round people up. But they have senators going, well, you saw
what Alex Jones did to the Sandy Hook parents and they say something I never said, never
show what I said. All these warmongers, all the people supporting China, all the slave
factories, but they can say, but Alex Jones is a bad man. Why did you hear? He beat up
a child. Where's the video? Well, he beat him up. That's why YouTube took him down.
And again, you ask, we'll sue him. Folks, they're doing it to everybody. They're making a total
criminal move. They've broken the social contract. They're going to steal the election. They're
coming for your guns, your children, everything. They're not stopping. It's total criminal
commitment. You understand? They know you woke up. They know. This isn't like just two
years ago. The enemy is now on the march against us. They're zombie-like. They're unpopular.
They're stupid. They're weak, but they have their systems slave driving them and their
identity is rural ruling your life because they know you're better than them. It's that
simple. It's existential envy. That's why Stelter and all these guys want us off the
air. Now you want to fund their operation and stop them from shutting us down and get
great profits at the same time? We were sold out of this for almost five months. Ultimate
bone broth formula. We've reformulated it with a new manufacturer, even better. It is,
you talk about what it's got in it. It's unbelievable. Chicken bone broth concentrated. It's so good
for your bones, your tendons, your, just everything. Turmeric root, chaga mushroom, v-pollen, goji
berry, alfalfa, herb powder, and even more. Leading competitors are $60. They're not
as strong and they have a bunch of fillers in them. This has no fillers. It's incredibly
strong. I'm selling it at $19.95 so that people that haven't tried it can see how amazing
the results are when you're on it for a week or more. Mix it in with your smoothies. Mix
it in with your spirulina. Mix it in with your way. Infowarsstore.com. $19.95. I put
in a super massive order for this baby. No reviews yet because it's a new formulation.
The other one had five stars, thousands of them. And so this is the newest system. We're
really, really proud of it. It's amazing and it's available at infowarsstore.com or infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free, triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. We used
to sell it for, you know, 50 bucks retail, sell it discounted $30. It was a best seller,
but it's hard to produce, hard to acquire, hard to make because it's so concentrated.
So right now it's $19.95. It's very close to cost, introductory, infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine, ultimate bone broth, primal human
nutrition and infowarslife.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
We'll be back with hour number two, a ton of special guests and more. However you're
listening, spread the word. It's all about fighting the censors and saving the republic.
Sometimes to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium
formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of survival
shield X2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have it in
full hours life. It take hours. Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglinone.
It's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body. Then it's got all the minerals
and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great
with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver
immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with
iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank
you all for remembering infowarsstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread
the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
From deep in the heart of FEMA region six, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's
Alex Jones.
All right, Owen Schreuer is coming up in the next segment. He had his own YouTube channel
and it just got deleted because media matters tattled on it and said, oh, look, Alex Jones
popped in for five minutes on his show. He's not allowed on YouTube. That's not what they
said. They said those channels where I was established are taken down. You can under
federal or state law or anywhere else have a media system or anything else where they
say an individual is banned from the public commons like that. But that's the illusion
they're trying to pitch with the global social score. But first, let's go to this important
report we call BS on Lester Holt.
Twitter CEO is standing by the company's decision to put infowars is Alex Jones on a seven day
suspension. This comes after Jones urged his Twitter followers to ready their battle
rifles as he put it against the media in a video posted to the site. Alex Jones on Twitter
posted this week what essentially is a video calling for people to get their battle rifles
ready against the media. People need to have their battle rifles and everything ready.
They're back sides. You got to be ready. Saying it's time to act. It's got to be done now.
Move criminally against people.
It's time politically and economically and judiciously and legally and criminally to
move against these people. It's got to be done now.
I'm going to chill up my spine. How about yours?
It did. I mean there's a number of actions that we believe help a call to incitement
to violence and those are the things that we need to make sure that we're taking action
on.
We need to act on the mainstream media and he says get the battle rifles ready.
I didn't say that.
That incites violence. Free speech does not protect inciting violence.
This is an emergency message to President Trump, to Congress and to anyone that supports
free speech in this country. The Democratic Party is now calling for all Republicans,
all patriots to put in the president to be de-platformed from Google, Facebook, Twitter,
Apple, you name it.
And Jones is hardly their only target. That's for sure. Virtually every day the big tech
companies censor someone else whose political opinions they disagree with.
Facebook's censor our free speech and same on the ones that don't even seem that we
have been censored.
This is a new super political class that operate as a judiciary and as the police and as the
prison guards to control our lives. This is classical authoritarianism.
For many on the left, the views seem to have become that if you can't beat them, prevent
them from speaking.
You've taken action against him in this instance. Can you tell us what it is?
I believe we put him in a timeout.
Alex Jones is not an eighth grader who got busted smoking in the bathroom.
It's just not.
I mean he's the guy who is fueling alt-right conspiracy theories and it's actually amazing.
This is what caused the ban and not everything that Alex Jones has done before.
Seems minor compared to the implications of someone suggesting a call to arms against
a particular group in this case, the media.
I didn't say use weapons on the media. I don't want them to have weapons used on them. That'll
make them victims. I'm worried they're going to false flag and stage something on themselves.
And then they're going to send anti-file to all our houses which they're doxing everybody
saying they are. And I said defensively be prepared to defend yourself and they say that
is exciting violence. No it's not.
Send a chill up my spine.
I'm getting chills right now. He said come with the battle rifles, engage in criminal
activity. And I said use the judicial system legally and lawfully and go after them criminally.
They have gotten to get a lid on this.
And the idea of martyrdom, it's also probably interesting but it will be interesting to see
who rallies around his cause. Let's remember Donald Trump appeared on his show.
President also entering the fray today he said quote, I won't mention names but when
they take certain people off of Twitter or Facebook and they're making that decision that
is really a dangerous thing because it could be you tomorrow.
And we're also standing up to social media censorship. That's the new thing.
Trump selection and Alex Jones' popularity are merely symptoms of a corrupt and failed
status quo. People know what's true. They can smell it. You can't stop them from knowing
that.
But this isn't about Alex Jones. This is about freedom.
Mr. President you don't want to look like you're after the press in the First Amendment.
You're letting them butcher the press in the First Amendment. Oh but you don't want to look
authoritarian and stand up to them. They're authoritarian. They're a clear and present
danger.
And folks stay with us with more.
Because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go
to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors
can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do
is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the Renaissance
and we are winning.
From the front lines of the Information War it's Alex Jones.
There is an extremely powerful video that we posted to infowars.com and I'm going to upload
it to Twitter in the next hour or so. And it's what I really said on that band Twitter
video where Antifa said they were coming to people's houses to be violent and I said
folks should be ready to defend themselves if they come to attack you like they did
Congressman Scalise or like when they came and broke the ribs of Rand Paul. Everyone
knows the last thing I want is violence. Everyone knows I'm worried that the media
is hyping it up to stage events against themselves or provocature it to then say that they've
got to shut down the rest of the press. They're saying the president when he counters their
lies is calling for violence against them and trying to shut down the press. When the
fake corporate press, the New York Times, the Washington Post, CNN, MSNBC, media matters
are all organized and deplatforming as flaggers on YouTube, on Facebook, on Google, on all
of it.
And so if they say the sky's red when it's blue it's supposedly the truth but it's all
a fraud when you see the young Turks named after the genocidal organization that murdered
a million and a half Christians in Turkey literally saying Alex Jones says quote attack
the media. There's no video. There's no quote because it's a lie. Now they have U.S. senators
all over the news. Democrats saying take me off the air. I'm calling for violence but
they never show it. These people are liars. The video. We call BS Lester Holt caught in
blatant lie about Alex Jones and that's a powerful name but we might just want to call
it total proof the media's framing Alex Jones with violence and then trying to have me silence
trying to steal my first amendment while they try to silence me. It's incredible. And folks
it gets even crazier. It's like that ABC news footage of the kid punching the adult in the
face four times so he pushes him down. Forbes and others ran with it that I beat up a kid
and been taking off the Internet and it's not true but even when Forbes retracted it
they didn't care and I was removed. Folks do you understand how dangerous this is? Well
just watch the video and make up your mind for yourself and I decided I'm going to reupload
it at m4wars.com because we actually have a copy of it. It's not even on the web now.
That entire 25 minute message to the president. An emergency message to the president about
how they're planning a false flag against the media to blame us and how violence is
not the answer but that they're going to try to get violent and it's such a powerful video.
They went what do we do? Well we take this and they got lawyers that do this. They go
just say that you call for violence and put it out, run it, say it, get him taken down.
They say well go to court, fight him soon. Well I've got the law firms set up and we've
got the battle plans and later I'm going to go over this. Social media platforming, federal
action, presidential commission, presidential executive orders and the president is preparing
orders so I went and commissioned law firms and we are just preparing all of this. We've
already gotten one report to the president now. I know this has gotten to the hands of
those that say it's getting to the president so you may have already gotten it but I'm
going to make sure this goes up on the site today so you can give it to all your members
of Congress. I'm going to get it in a bunch of members of Congress hands. I'm going to
have couriers deliver it to every congressional office next week and so you're not going to
shut me up, George Soros and David Brock and CNN. You're not shutting crap up and you're
not shutting the American people up. Guys did you queue up the clip of Trump we played
yesterday from Tuesday night where he talked about the de-platforming of InfoWars and now
it's not going to be tolerated now. We have to accept everybody's voices and then figure
it out for ourselves. We have that place. Here it is and we're also standing up to social
media censorship. That's the new thing. That's the new thing. You know I'd rather have fake
news like CNN. I would rather have fake news than have anybody including liberals, socialists
anything than have anybody stopped in censorship. We got to live with it. We got to get used
to it. We got to live with fake news. There's too many sources. Every one of us is sort
of like a newspaper. You have Twitter, you have whatever you have, Facebook. But everyone
you can't have censorship. You can't pick one person and say well we don't like what
he's been saying he's out. So we'll live with fake news. I mean I hate to say it. We have
no choice because that's by far the better alternative. We can't have people saying censorship
because you know what it can turn around. It can be them next. It can be them next.
They're going for broke. Now Owen Schroyer joins us. We're going to get into this powerful
Mark Dice video that illustrates how we all on Twitter and other places have hundreds
of times the viewers and reach of a Brian Stelter or a Cuomo and that's why they're begging
to have it shut down. It's so outrageous. It'd be bad enough if they were number one
and trying to question little guy. But it's just losers and their ratings are down 24
points year after year. They have like 100,000 viewers on some of their larger shows. They
are a total fraud. They are a total joke. And now we're going to be just tuned in. Here's
Media Matters. We'll punch that article up. Here it is. How Alex Jones is circumventing
his Facebook band and they said and YouTube bands. They sent it to YouTube and said look
he's on Owen Schroyer's show. He's not allowed to be on anybody's show. That's what the unwritten
thing they're putting out. That is serious. Racketeering. Totally illegal. And so Facebook
didn't bite on that because Owen's got his own Facebook and stuff like that he had before
he was even here. But his own YouTube channel that he had with Roger Stone now and by the
way it wasn't like oh I need to get on Owen's show and oh that YouTube was so big. The average
video probably has 5000 views. I was walking through there and saw Roger on and we had
some fun. It was like oh let me get to an audience. I'm on over 200 radio stations.
Over 400 TV stations. Over 100 cable systems and growing 20, 30 stations a week. Okay.
I can go on as many radio shows as I want. I mean I can reach 10 million people like
that all over the place. There's thousands of videos by them for wars. It's blown up
in your face. So if you think that little YouTube channel and I'm not mad that Owen
had it. He had a couple. He said can I do shows on my own? Can I do stuff from my house?
I said dude I love it. Do all you want. So he still doesn't show himself from his apartment.
When he got here like a couple years ago he said can I do a course again. So the point
is that they find where all our feeds go and they go oh look we found him again. Just five
years ago people would absolutely flip out on anybody that called for censorship like
this but now they just do it. And who is Media Matters? George Soros. So Owen joins us so
we got the notice but they didn't say oh Media Matters doesn't get rid of you. They said oh
you showed violence. It's not in the documentary form. Well we're the news. The news is a lot
of show violence. We showed stuff that's been on the news but we're not going to show it
here just to really upset them because they want to show it and take us off Twitter. Everybody
else can show the black on white crime. Everybody else can show the South African farmers being
killed. You know just their dead bodies. But we're not allowed to because it's violence
for violence's sake. That's right. So this is the selective enforcement. It was a bunch
of that stuff that Owen was showing yesterday and so we've got the letter here that you're
now de-platformed. Owen, you and Roger Stone from the channel you guys set up. It's a little
side channel. So here we go again my friend.
Well it was probably going to happen eventually no matter what. I'm not sure exactly what
they decided to strike us down for today. Was it showing the racial violence that is
being fomented by people like Tariq Nasheed? Was it when I started to talk about the WikiLeaks
emails and how that led to PizzaGate? Or was it because Alex Jones comes on the channel?
Or was it because they were just waiting to shut us down and they just used all of it
as an excuse? But you are you know the first unhuman Alex and it's starting to kind of
get to other reaches of the internet now so more people are going to be awoke by it. But
you know it's funny. I was talking to John Harmon today and he was just like hey you
know how are you doing? I was like oh you know just getting personal threats. My family
is getting threats. Just got banned off YouTube. Just a regular day in the Info War. And then
you have the mainstream media like Brian Stelter go and whine and complain about how they're
victims of Trump and their victims of violence. When nobody's doing any violence against them.
Nobody you don't have you don't have 600 documented cases of Bernie supporters or Hillary supporters
being harassed and assaulted in the streets of America. You do have that for Trump supporters
but the media is not going to cover that. So they're just trying to spin off everything
now Alex and you have. Yeah they're censoring us so they say we're
censoring them. They're calling for violence on us so they say it on them. It's I mean
I can't believe they say I called for battle rifles on the media never said it.
So you have Boston Globe report a bomb threat last week which the FBI did not validate and
then you had Ken Vogel of the New York Times put some weird voicemail that he got that he
said was a threat to him which I'm doubting that too. Sorry Ken seems a little strange
that all of a sudden you're they are they are committed to lie. Let's come back and talk
about it. Yeah suddenly the week they say hundreds of editorials Trump should be violent
to us. Suddenly they get all these threats. Absolutely. I believe they're doing it all
themselves. They are sick and evil anti-American scum. Try to bring this country down we'll
be right back. If you like alkaline water or know someone
that does you're going to love the Dillon Living Water Bottle. It creates alkaline water
on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money. Made with surgical grade
stainless steel the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to 9 to deliver both alkaline and
anti-accident water anywhere you want it. Alkaline water is healthier tastes better
and can even boost energy. The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy
and achieve optimal hydration. Get your Dillon Bottle today at DYLN.CO. That's DYLN.CO.
It's a no brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more right? And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon. Get
the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration. Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or
BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Bacon Lovers. We ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required. Proprietary
value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center
cut, fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm
and serve. Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at
ReadyToEatBacon.com. ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize
my mother's house. I sued the IRS and won. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating
them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people
deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you
owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless
tax case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com. That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team
knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health. MycoZX Plus
is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support
the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms. There's no better product
to help your body fight back. MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body, supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can
cause you problems if it goes unchecked. Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract, pal-darko bark, and grape seed extract, our formula
is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system. InfoWarsLife's
cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect. Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com
or call 1-888-248-7738.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
It's essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are.
And they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, fluorolife,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high-quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in 4slife.com.
Hi everybody.
I'm Brian Stelter.
And I decide who and who can't go on.
The internet now.
Is that clear?
I just got Owen Troyer taking off his YouTube channel.
And the good folks at Media Matters are funded by George Soros.
They've been going around saying no one can have electronic shows on now.
That's not authoritarian at all.
Mark Dice was pointing out that I only get a few retweets.
He gets tens of thousands of sodas.
Alex Jones and Owen Troyer.
That's why it needs to be taken down.
And I agree.
I'm actually, well, I'm actually Owen Troyer who got the time machine
and came back as Brian Stelter.
I'm not Anton LeVe and I'm not Leo Zagami.
No.
Everything's fine.
Actually, I am Anton LeVe from Heaven.
And I was broadcasting down here, but I still lie a little bit.
Let's actually go to the real Brian Stelter.
Can we put him back on screen?
And then I guess let Owen Troyer talk to him.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Owen, go ahead.
Be Mr. Stelter now.
Well, I just wanted to ask Brian a question.
Brian, why do you want to get Infowars banned so much?
Well, you see, it's not fair that someone like Alex Jones,
who is much better looking than me as a family that loves him,
as a whole crew of people that loves him, has friends that care about him,
has an audience that will always support him.
It's not fair that Alex Jones gets to exist and compete with someone like me,
who's ugly, not just physically, but also mentally and spiritually hideous.
And a lot of people say I remind them of Pennywise Stelter.
But who's my uncle?
But I just think it's not fair that Alex Jones is allowed to have a platform
and then I'm supposed to compete with that.
So you have to be banned, Owen, and you're next too.
You've got to be banned.
And David Knight, and if you guys, and Roger Stone, and Mark Dice,
and anyone else who's obviously much better looking than me,
has a much higher IQ, they must be banned.
This is not fair.
I am a journalist.
I am a newsman.
I am a newsman, damn it.
And by the way, my news must be high.
Don't criticize me or I'll file a bullying complaint.
I'm only trying to smother your speech and defaming you and lying
and saying you're calling for violence.
I'm only engaged in all sorts of horrible things
and working with media matters to banned people.
So you have to lay down to me.
I deserve this legacy media to make you watch me,
and it's going to happen.
Oh, you know what's so great about this moment right now, Alex,
is that Brian Stelter is actually probably listening and crying.
Well, look, we should call him crying Stelter.
Well, the bottom line is this guy has absolutely raped our free speech,
along with the rest of CNN,
and that fellow he works with over there at Media Matters.
And this is dangerous, and the president's going to take action.
So Rod Schutkin, I want to bring John McAfee,
famous computer programmer and inventor of McAfee software
and worked at NASA before that.
And he joins us and he's put some tweets out and pointed out
that this really is a conspiracy against my free speech.
In top law firms, I've talked to like, well, four different ones,
and I've got some ready to sue, you know, anti-trust for free.
I've got others who've written reports to the president
that we were getting to the president, social media,
de-platforming, the federal action that's being prepared,
and of course, expanding on that.
We've got the Presidential Commission and all the things,
the executive orders that are being prepared.
But we're 75 days out from this, John McAfee.
This is the stuff you read about in history books
in Nazi Germany or Soviet Russia, in my view.
I mean, is this not the big move?
Well, they're not even just saying, I'm de-platform now.
They're saying, don't have Jones on or we'll de-platform you.
I mean, this is the unpersoning.
This is the Chinese global social score they now admits coming here.
I mean, this is unbelievable.
Well, you know, first of all, I like your beard.
I didn't even know you had one.
But on one of the prior shows that I did with you,
I pointed out that this was likely to happen.
That the social media companies would end up being
the conservators of truth as they define it
and be the mass censors.
But here's the issue.
If somebody says Chinese fairies have flown into the ears
of all the congressmen and they're now controlling them,
how the hell do you know that's not true?
Please God, who's going to say that's absolutely not true?
I've seen stranger things.
So I stood up here.
I lost, by the way, 15,000 followers for standing up for you.
But I do stand up for my friends, Alex.
Well, you were standing up for yourself, too.
Oh, I do stand up for me.
I promise you that.
But I'm saying if we don't all stand together on the First Amendment,
even Bill Maher's got that right, we're going to lose everything.
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
And again, I warned about this.
I've warned lots of people.
Trust me, social media platforms are going to be the censors.
The definers of truth and what's acceptable for us to look at,
listen to, and read.
It's insane.
They admit that it's the social engineering arms.
And Jack Dorsey admits that he says, he goes,
we believe our social engineering will make Alex Jones behave
and stop saying kill people.
But I didn't say that.
So like they even based it on a lie.
Well, nothing's going to make you behave, nor me, Alex.
I know that's for a fact.
But listen, we do have to stand together.
So I have a suggestion for you.
If you want to stick it to the man,
why don't you start your own cryptocurrency, the Alex Jones coin.
You have a radical following.
I promise you, every one of your followers is going to buy it
and start your own financial system within America.
Stick it to the now.
Well, I tell you this, I've stayed out of the cryptocurrencies
because I didn't want to bet on the wrong thing or tell people to.
But now they've succeeded in becoming the new dominant thing out there.
This has really got to freak the globalist out.
Well, yeah.
And it should.
The banks, the Fed.
And how are governments going to collect taxes?
If you can't tell what a person's income was, what they spent,
what they received, and with cryptocurrency,
especially the privacy coins, the government cannot tell.
We'll talk about that some in the next segment.
But let me just get to this.
And I want to show you this.
Why do you think they're accelerating it all now?
Because it seems like a big, risky thing.
The president says he's going to take action against it.
How do you think the president should take action against it?
Because I'm not bragging.
We've already gotten things into his hands,
as the media now knows, and I'm not going to get into the details of that.
But he is absolutely now receiving our research.
We have top law firms getting him information.
So, I mean, what do you, as a smart guy, think we should do?
Well, here's the issue.
People are sensing that Trump is weakening, which is absolutely not true.
I've never seen a stronger president.
And they're taking every opportunity to diss what they view as the Trump policies,
the Trump beliefs, the right wing, conservatism, the whole thing.
And I think by making an example of you,
and they'll get around to making an example of me.
I'm no less vocal than you.
I just have fewer followers.
I have 800,000 to worry about.
And they'll get around to everybody that does not conform to the political correct view
of what life is, what our government is, and how happy we all are.
I tell you, though, it's a bold move for them to launch this.
Why do you think they pick me first?
I think it's because they demonized me first.
They thought I could misrepresent what I said and done.
But I think it's blown up in their face.
And I'm not just saying that to put perfume or lipstick on a pig.
Sometimes the traffic, five times people recognize me in the street,
support flooding in, though the enemy attacks are intensifying,
so support's more critical than ever.
I mean, what do you think they're going to do next?
Well, you asked why they picked you.
Jesus, Alex, you know why you are the most in-your-face commentator in America.
Thank God.
You know, you don't back down.
You tell things as you see it.
You don't give a shit what people think about what you said.
And people hate that.
You are the epitome of everything that the left-wing Clinton culture hates about America.
And oddly enough, you do have a mixed bag of followers.
People either hate you or they love you, Alex.
Same with me, except more people hate me, I think.
But yeah, of course you.
Who else?
You are the one person in America who goes out and says,
here it is, in your effing face, here it is.
Of course you.
Well, in a way, I'm honored, but I just love the listeners supporting us through this,
but it's been a hell of a fight.
I want to come back and get Owen Schreuer's take on this and your take.
And just let's get into cryptocurrency because, man, it is now what the biggest thing in the world.
And they say, oh, it's just all digital.
Well, their stuff's all digital.
So how do you think this shakes out as well?
And then we have, coming up later in the next hour, Pastor Rodney Howard,
who's from South Africa, to talk about the mass extermination of whites
and our liberal media telling Trump, hey, let the whites stay there and be killed.
They deserve it.
Whites deserve to die.
That's liberal, didn't you know?
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
I'm a crypto fan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day, InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfoWarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current run-down systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes, supplements don't work fast enough. That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue Line,
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1oz, 3½oz and 16oz bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen or wherever you go.
The incredible new Purifying Formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin-free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle only available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
This is Alex Jones.
It's been going on for 50 years. The little girl didn't get separated from her mother.
But here's what they hate. CNN says it's racist to show the illegal alien, but will show it being led in handcuffs in after killing the woman.
So it's totally sick.
Now, John McAfee is our guest here, riding shotguns some of the next hour, covering the waterfront.
I wanted to play a clip here of the president yesterday and get his take on this, pointing out that the reason they want to impeach him and the reason they're pushing all this is because he's popular.
The country's coming back somewhat, and they want to change the subject to that. And I agree.
And then he said, he thinks that this morning on Fox and Friends that if they were able to remove him, it'd probably tank the economy.
We're getting some of the best numbers ever seen.
I want to get his take A on what the president said and B, what he thinks will happen to the economy.
If they try to take him out and what type of backlash that'll stir in the American people.
Because this is confirmed from Jack Mesobic now what Stone got from high level sources.
They're preparing to indict Donald Trump Jr.
So let's go ahead and go to that clip of El Presidente.
I guess it says something like high crimes and all.
I don't know how you can impeach somebody who's done a great job.
I'll tell you what, if I ever got impeached, I think the market would crash.
I think everybody would be very poor.
And then there's some other clubs where he points out that when he was another rally, what's unfolding there?
So John McAvie, what do you think of that?
Well, absolutely, the market would crash.
We would be in a world of hurt because if he's impeached, what comes next?
People dislike Trump because he is successful.
He does not bow down to convention.
He doesn't listen to anybody's advice except his own.
In other words, he is his own man with his own self-confidence and he acts on it.
People hate that. People hate confident, successful people.
And Trump is the epitome of a confident, successful person.
Now, they're not going to impeach him. It can't possibly succeed.
And pray to God we get some sanity back in this country.
I mean, if you look at our social media, for example, they say, well, we're private companies.
You avoided our policy.
Aren't there things called monopolies anymore?
I mean, is not, you know, YouTube sort of a monopoly?
Is not Facebook the monopoly of tweets, of short messages?
Please God, I mean, let's get real here. They do have an obligation to not just their users,
but to the country, to our culture, to try to toe the line of balance and that's not happening.
So they're not going to succeed. They're not going to succeed.
And I have full confidence in Trump.
Number one, he's much smarter than people gave him credit for.
He's more devious, thank God.
And he's a very experienced person in negotiating and business and finance.
This is exactly what we need.
I agree with you.
Adding this point, we've had top law firms look at this, but the companies have argued this themselves.
The left is all of the news saying these are the electronic commons.
We must shut Jones down from the commons.
He's too dangerous, not because I'm a bad person, but because it's too popular.
Tucker Carlson said, but coming up next hour, I want to go over this with you some is from a top law firm.
We'll be announcing some things very, very soon.
But social media de-platforming, federal action laid out to the president and there's larger indexes that are going to be going to the president.
Presidential commission, executive orders, the ways to take action.
It's all right here in these reports.
So I'm going to be going over all of this more with you some of the next hour.
Plus you've been a top executive and a business man, a smart guy.
You can give us some of your angles and takes.
But John McAfee's here, obviously, Owen Schreuer, you just got de-platformed off your own YouTube channel because I came on for five minutes.
I mean, this is a trillion percent absolutely criminal.
And they say it's because we showed violent things.
No, media matters reported it and it's because I was on there.
So it shows how they can't even get their propaganda lined up.
What do you think this is all ahead of?
Well, it's either.
Go ahead, John.
Okay, no, I was going to say that it is not violence.
The core of news.
I mean, do you want to watch it?
People don't watch things mom making apple pies.
No, they like to see road accidents and mayhem and massacres.
This is just human nature.
So good God to say that, oh, you're offering people what the news offers them or what popular magazines offer.
Bullshit.
Why pick on you?
Again, because you are in their face.
You are a threat, Alex.
End of story.
Well, I've confirmed that they're mad that I'm pointing out that Google and Apple have moved to China and are helping censor there and literally helping arrest people and have them killed.
So it shows they have absolutely no morals or totally ruthless that Apple owns and leases the worst factories in China at Foxconn on record.
And then also I was pointing out that they're planning a false flag against themselves in the media to blame us.
I mean, clearly, clearly they're upset about what's being said here.
So everybody should know that means the answers to taking them on is being covered by myself and my guests and others.
Owen, your comments on that.
Well, I think John McAfee makes an excellent point because think about what happened on September 11, 2001.
All eyes were on television news all day long.
That's what everyone was watching.
Millions of people, like John said, violence, big event, tragedy, everyone goes to the television news.
So if they're getting ready to pull some big false flag 9-11 style event, they can't have Alex Jones on there.
They can't have Info Wars on there.
They can't have these alternative news sources on air, on YouTube, on the Internet because everyone's going to go there now.
And they're not going to go turn on the TV to hear what the official narrative is because they've been lied to by the TV so much.
So now they have to cut off.
It's like, imagine you're going down a road and you've got all these exits for alternative exits and different things.
They're shutting all the exits down.
They're shutting every exit down and they're forcing everyone to go down the same pipeline on the official narrative.
So it would make sense if they're going to pull some big event, they have to cut out the new news that has the biggest audience,
like the Alex Jones show, Mark Dice YouTube channel, because they're not going to go along with the official narrative or at least question it or provide other elements and other facts and other historical references.
And they can't control the news that way.
They can't control the narrative that way.
So it would make sense if there's some big false flag event coming up like a 9-11, they want all the eyes on Fox, CNN, MSNBC who are going to tow the official narrative.
No matter what, never question it. Alex Jones, who may question it and provide some other historical analysis, he cannot exist.
We have to shut him down before that event.
We have to control the narrative.
And they're using the hype of things I didn't say about Sandy Hook to say, oh, look, it's hurtful to question a big public event like 9-11 or Gulf of Tonkin or Babies and Incubators.
Don't do it.
I think that's one of the most important things we've said here in a long time on Target.
Owen Schreuer, John McAfee, your take on that.
Well, it actually kind of blew me away with that suggestion that had not occurred to me that maybe there is a false flag coming up.
We know for a fact.
I mean, I have good friends within the CIA and have confided in me.
Yes, of course.
The CIA does create false flags of enormous scope and scale.
So we know it happens.
And it would make sense.
It would make total sense.
Of course, why didn't they ban me?
Because, you know, I'm as loud as you.
I'm just older.
I choose my words more carefully.
Wow.
Stay right there, both of you.
I want you to write a shot down into the next hour.
We have Jack Posubic of Naval Intelligence.
I was never going to say that on air until they blew his cover, but he's a big patriot with the president and some high-level folks.
I'll just tell you that.
We had Roger Stone with the breaking news that they're planning to indict Donald Trump Jr. very, very soon.
Posubic has very high-level sources.
I'll just leave it at that.
And he is upset and is confirmed that that is indeed what is about to happen very, very soon.
So tomorrow's news today will be back.
Listen, folks, when the big event comes, you've got to tell your friends, your family via email, via phone call.
However, come to infowars.com.
Get the live feeds.
When the big event comes, whether it's an attempted assassination of Trump, a nuke going off, planes in the buildings, whatever they're planning.
They've been bringing jihadis in and protecting them.
McAfee helped expose a huge plan that Obama had down in Beliche.
I didn't really believe it.
And later it came out and was all confirmed with Hezbollah.
So, oh, I want to talk to him about that, because Hezbollah's promised sleeper cells to attack Trump in the U.S.
He broke that here four years ago in studio.
And then later it came out in federal documents that it was all true.
I mean, I thought he escaped and all that incredible stuff and it was amazing, but he's like, well, it's because Hezbollah was after me and Hamas and Ryerson.
And then it later all turned out to be true.
So unbelievable.
Of course, if you wanted a jihad attack, do it through Beliche because they hand out passports.
So bottom line, spread the word.
This is a huge time to be alive.
It's all coming together.
We need financial support.
We have incredible products.
1995 bone broth.
I got a huge shipment of it.
We're selling it at near cost.
It's an amazing product.
Well, infowarstore.com, infowarcelife.com, get in there, buy some t-shirts, knockouts, 40% off the amazing sleep aid, new ultimate female force, 50% off out of the gates.
Real red pill plus now with energy, 50% off.
These are incredible deals.
Thank you for the support.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest,
most concentrated, over the top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarcelife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarcelife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarcelife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Infowarcelife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarcelife.com.
Waging War on Corruption is Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Infowar.
Jack Pasobic of One American News, great Patriots, can we join us in the next segment?
He's got some really, really bad news that he's able to confirm.
Roger Stone has great sources and first broke it yesterday. This is some really serious news.
Jack Pasobic on Twitter, he's coming up next segment. John McAvie obviously has been warning on this show for at least five years since he got out of Belize about Hezbollah sleeper cells in the U.S.
Now the head of their Iranian military has come out and said that indeed they have sleeper cells that came in through Belize and other areas.
And so there's that and he also warned that social media networks will become the main censors.
They now admit they are, even the Wall Street Journal, the social media de-platform in-game self-censorship.
Wall Street Journal, digital de-platforming become the censors.
So when digital platforms become the censors, Americans don't trust the media for a good reason.
It seems, I'm going to get into the whole Hezbollah thing with you, John, because there's so many subjects,
but it seems like even mainstream media is now turning on itself starting with Tucker Carlson doing the right thing
and then even other folks like Bill Maher and saying, now the president, this is really dangerous what's happened to Alex Jones.
So I want to cover that first. Why do you think they're starting to admit, hey, this is dangerous?
Because it's obvious. I mean, to me, it's obvious.
What could be more dangerous than to have a social media company decide what's true, Alex?
I mean, fuck me. I mean, I have seen some strange things in this life and when people tell me the weirdest stuff, I go, but maybe it's true.
I don't know. I am not the judge and neither are you. Neither is anyone.
That's the danger defining what's real, Alex. Good God almighty, what could be more dangerous than that?
It's also incredibly arrogant. You know, media matters and George Soros literally are in the major tech companies colluding together,
which is a total antitrust monopoly of information, not just unfair trade practices and so many other things that lawyers say is open and shut,
but to have this group, the Democratic Party in there running at all is just insane.
Let's get back to why you got, why they tried to kill you in Belize and it's all been confirmed now.
It's come out mainstream news, the documents came out that you, how you found out that they had jihadis coming through.
And now exactly what you said is all over the news.
You know, I'm outspoken and I do my own thing no matter where I am and I unwisely did my own thing and a third world virtual dictatorship,
even though they do have a voting system, it's all garbage.
I ran afoul of the government and they demanded recompense.
They asked for $2 million for their election coming up and they would leave me alone.
Sorry, I don't do extortion. Week later, they stormed my property, shot my dog, destroyed a half million dollars worth of my property,
abused me relatively and then left.
I was pissed off mostly about the dog and I demanded an apology from the Prime Minister.
Another foolish thing, okay?
All the newspaper says McAfee quote demands apology from Prime Minister.
You don't do that in third world dictatorships.
In any case, you know, because I am who I am, I was able to donate laptops to government computers that had spyware.
There was also like a virus that moved from one computer to another within the government.
So pretty soon everybody's computer was tapped.
Now I admit that's illegal, but I'm not in police now and I broke no American laws by doing that.
So I wanted to find absolute proof that they had set me up.
I didn't. What I did find was that the Minister of Immigration was the largest human trafficker in all of Central America
and was responsible for selling passports to Hezbollah where you could then go into Mexico and from Mexico
you could take a mule across the border into America.
Like everybody else. Huge business, you know, literally.
And now it's all confirmed.
John McAfee, stay there.
We're going to give your websites out and more and talk about cryptocurrency.
But first, ride shot done with me because we've got huge breaking news with Jack Fosoby in T-minus 60 seconds, folks.
This is huge.
They're going after Don Jr.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Jack Vesobic is a syndicated TV host and investigative journalist at One American News Networks.
Also, Naval Intelligence Patriot ran one of the biggest grassroots organizations for Trump in the campaign.
He's got a lot of great sources.
And unfortunately, he's able to confirm what Roger Stone, who's got amazing sources, broke yesterday here on air that
Robert Mueller is looking and reportedly planning to indict Donald Trump Jr.
Not for the totally legal meeting with the lady saying she had dirt on Hillary.
Gosh, the Clintons went to Russia to try to get fake dirt cooked up on Trump. That's opposition research.
But for the old thing, we warned about a year and a half ago.
You talk to the FBI, then they can say that you materially lied to them or misled them.
This is unbelievable.
And if the economy wasn't coming back and other things, people might put up with this.
They're not going to put up with it, and I'll add this.
If Hillary wasn't in bed with the Russians in uranium one and the secret server and the Mueller with tarmac meetings
giving the FSB uranium and secret transfers like James Bond, if Trump had people doing that, I'd say, get him out of there.
But no, he's bringing the country back. It's obvious.
It's the globalists that have had their foot on her neck.
So, Jack Bussebeck, you know, they tried to get you kicked out of Naval Intelligence to pull your security clearance.
But then they all say, oh, we can keep our security clearances, but they're not valuable.
But now they're freaking out because they are valuable.
These people are anti-American to their core.
How did a communist admitted communist like Brennan ever get in charge?
But those are side issues. You're here with the really serious news.
What can you tell us there in D.C. from what your sources are telling us about Don Jr.?
Well, Alex, you know, it's interesting. I'd actually heard this for a couple of weeks now, but I wasn't able to pin it down.
But essentially what Mueller's been doing is going over Don Jr.'s testimony through the United States Senate where he did testify.
He spent multiple hours testifying and go over the fine tooth comb to find any way that they can spin something that he said during that sworn testimony to be used against him.
And it seems that they have found some way to say that there was something he said that was slightly different from now what they're hearing from, of course, Michael Cohen,
who's cooperating with the special counsel and others.
Lamy Davis is out there essentially talking about this.
So it's going to come down most likely to be his word against theirs.
Now, if you notice very specifically, there were a few times during that Senate testimony that Don Jr. claimed attorney-client privilege for some of the questions they asked.
Well, unfortunately, that attorney was Michael Cohen.
And Michael Cohen has completely betrayed his oath, completely betrayed his any attorney-client privilege.
And he's just blurting stop all over the place because he's trying to save his own skin.
He's completely flipped on the president and the Trump family.
And he's going over to Mueller and saying anything that he can that he thinks will implicate Trump or Trump Jr.
And this is all being done, Alex, of course, to put pressure on the president at this time to bring him down, to bring him to heel or to at least get him to react in such a way as like firing Mueller or firing others
that they believe then will then could be used as fuel for an impeachment scenario.
If they arrest or indict them arrest Don Jr., I think if he takes the Ghani Road, the American people, I think it's going to blow up in their face if the president's son, because you know Mueller will do it, they'll throw him in prison just to make him do the perp walk.
And then everybody will know that Hillary has engaged in one trillion times what they ever did, sold this nation out, Benghazi, the Arab Spring.
I mean, you try to chronicle looting, Haiti, stealing billions, keeping 99% of the money for herself, and when you try to think about all the crimes of the Clintons and the sellouts to China and just all of it,
and the uranium one and the sending money into Russia to try to overthrow Putin and then laundering it back to the Ukraine, that's all come out even in Politico to her campaign in Obama.
$84 million in unaccounted campaign cash, a $300,000 fine, and then meanwhile they're going to try to do this to the president totally legal 12 years ago for issues and going back years ago making payments with his own money.
I mean, this is just so obviously persecution, it's beyond hypocritical.
No, not only that, Alex, and what I would add as well, and you mentioned just before in the opening, that this entire meeting was a setup by Fusion GPS to begin with.
We know that Vesel Nitskaya, who proffered this meeting with Don Jr., Manafort and Kushner also took part, that she was working with Fusion GPS at the time.
Fusion GPS we know was hired by the Clinton campaign through the Perkins Koi Democrat, essentially it's the legal arm of the Democrat Party. So Fusion GPS has their fingerprints all over this.
We know that there were State Department translator was used to part this thing, someone who had had ties to the FBI.
So it really goes back to ask a question of was this whole thing done as a way to set up or entrap Don Jr. to get this series of events in motion, that they went to him, essentially offered him a conspiracy, then went to see what does he do with it.
Is he going to go talk to his dad about it? Is he going to go talk to Michael Cohen about it, talk to the rest of the campaign, knowing full well that they're watching him and watching what he's doing at the same time.
This is the same way that the feds will essentially assert an informant into organizations that they want to then destabilize.
So they'll have the informant walk around saying, hey guys, let's commit crimes, let's commit crimes, when the organization by and large themselves probably wouldn't have done that on their own.
But even if they get someone discussing these things with the informant, they can then say there's a collusion to, or I should say a conspiracy to collude or a conspiracy to.
And a lot of these transcripts have come out in court now, and you've got these different operatives over and over again saying, let's meet with Russia, let's meet with Russians.
And they're like, no, Russia is an important stop. Russia, Russia, Russia. And then a year and a half later, Mueller asked the person, you ever talked to this person about Russia? No.
Boom, you're going to prison because you didn't remember it. You're like, what? I mean, this is getting crazy.
Right. You know, somebody, they talked about with George Papadopoulos. He said, yeah, I had a conversation with a guy at a bar one time and he said something about Russia.
I didn't think much of it. And he said, well, that guy reported you because he talked about Russia. And then Papadopoulos said, wait a minute, I didn't, he's the one who brought up Russia.
I didn't bring up Russia. That was a guy at a bar. That wasn't some kind.
Well, let me tell you how much I was sitting there during the inauguration of the night with a bunch of active duty Navy SEALs and people who just so happened to do secret submarine work.
I didn't even know that. And then they would have guys walk over and say, hey, Alex, I know people from Taiwan that want to buy submarine secrets from you and you guys.
And those guys got freaked out, man. And then other stuff like that was happening. And then even though Obama's people were still there, they still got reported and called in about the submarines.
So the Democrats literally know classified stuff. They have their operatives walking around and just and then I guess they have data info on whoever we're with.
And then they come over and try to set us up. I mean, this is dangerous.
Yeah, these are these types of setup operations. And it's, I think, I think at this point it's been covered by yourself and many other sources that that fusion GPS backed meeting at Trump Tower was definitely a setup of the Trump campaign.
Now, what they're going to go back on is, of course, they're going to try to brush that under the table the same way that in all of the court documents that Mueller has filed at this point, he's never once mentioned
Stephen Halper, the spy that the FBI inserted into the Trump campaign to try to actually get a role in the campaign. He's completely covered that up the setup angle of all of this and said, you tried to collude with Russia and we have the proof.
Yet he doesn't mention at all that there were these communications with this specific spy. I know at the same token, he's not going to mention any of the spies with or any of the connections between Fusion GPS and all of the people who set this meeting up in the first
sure or how it's 37 all Democrat operatives trying to set Trump up and there's no collusion been found. They're all trying to get him on process crimes. It's the thinnest thing ever.
But let me ask this question. What does Trump need to do about this because this is so criminal. It's so obvious sessions is shooting his mouth off. He's 100% compromise session hits back at Trump won't be influenced by political
considerations. What he's asleep at the switch. You've got Rosenstein involved in all this. I mean, they totally have hijacked the country. This is unbelievable.
The president needs to start using the powers of the presidency aggressively. It's time for him to wield the pardon for these these this selective prosecutions will depart and power which he has.
And as well, it's time for him to start a deadline, set a deadline for Mueller and say, you know, whether that's the midterm elections, whether Thanksgiving set a deadline and say, I want your report on my desk by this time.
You do not have a blank check. You don't get to run the Department of Justice. You don't get to do whatever you want with the country. I'm the president. I was duly elected.
Mueller, they act in the news and Congress is trying to pass some law that violates the separation of powers saying that Mueller is his own new Imperium inquisitor. I mean, that's how Oliver Cromwell ended up, you know, taking over or whatever.
I mean, we're sitting here looking at somebody literally being set up as a fourth branch of government. We'll talk to Jack Pesovic and one more segment from one American news network.
I noticed that when my app went to number one on Google and on Android Apple, theirs is right behind us. So how exciting to see one American news beating CNN The New York Times.
Be sure and get their app as well and then tell everyone you know to get the info towards official app and to get the official one American news app.
We're all in it together. The truth is popular and it will win.
It's like the one you're listening to in Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gussett teen company.
Heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
I wonder how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula. The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation,
vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today.
Available at InfowarsStore.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the Infowar.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield and infowarslife.com.
We are back live broadcasting worldwide. One more segment with our guests.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide. One more segment with our guests and we're going to have a South African pastor on describe the white genocide exploding.
The president Trump has been covering. By the way, cloud TV owns one American network and we're on thousands of different platforms. We've been taken off close to 30 big ones as everybody knows, but cloud TV has exploded.
We have had hundreds of thousands of people a day literally tune into our streams over that much bigger than YouTube was after the shadow batting began. NASA television, all of it's on there. One American news.
So very, very, very, very cloud TV, KL, OWD TV. Be sure and check that out. An amazing service. Their flagship is one American news. So be sure and check that out, ladies and gentlemen.
Going back to Jack, but so but Jack, this is just horrifying. I mean, there is Don Jr. such a patriot, such a good guy out there fighting for this country so committed. One of the best people around his father, obviously out there trying to get dirt on Hillary.
He finds out it's a setup totally legal to do that. And then they're told it's about adoption of Russian kids. And then now they the other word is that Mueller is going to indict him.
Here's the big question. Trump has threatened to declassify the evidence. Well, we've already seen what the liberals said before they changed their story. They were illegally spying on Trump.
Nothing was there that they were covering up Russia gate with the Clintons and Mueller. They're covering up their treason with this investigation. It's just like a movie where exactly what they say.
We've done the New York Times is calling everyone I know saying has Jones been to Russia is Jones a Russian agent is Jones. They say Jones is paid by the Russians. Well, let me be clear.
I almost had a stunt this year. So I got a Russian visa to go over there and make a big joke out of it. And then I decided this is so dangerous. I'm not going to do it.
I tweeted out the Russian visa and the media picked it up and said we got his secret Russian visa. So I've got the New York Times asking me what's this.
And I'm like you people are maniacs. I've never been to Russia. But the witch huntness of this is just crazy. So I'm ranting here.
But I'm just asking why doesn't Trump just declassify all this? Yeah, Alex, that's actually one of the main things that Trump's lawyers and his friends and legal advisors outside the White House have been urging.
You know, some people are urging pardons. I personally think the pardons is would be a very strong tool. But declassification of documents declassification of the Carter page.
FISA warrant looking out for other FISA warrants that may have been on George Papadopoulos or Roger Stone. And if we can find those declassify those as well, put all the cards on the table.
Show us what paragraph one was of this investigation. What was the evidence that you claim people like John Brennan, people like James Comey claim that they had on Donald Trump.
It means quote unquote ties to Russia and show us what it was. And if you don't have anything better than this ridiculous steel dossier, which we now know is paid for by the Clinton campaign, then shut it down.
Shut it down. Put a deadline on all of this because we know it was crooked from the start. And then that should cast a taint over all the indictments and prosecutions that have come out of this because we know that it was started on a faulty and false premise.
It's the fruit of the poison tree 101. It's like a surveillance footage a cop doesn't know that's there when he plants a gun on somebody. I mean, it doesn't matter what other evidence you've got, the people go free.
But there is nothing. And can you believe in a year and a half of illegal surveillance and the stuff before that and everything they've done, they've got nothing. It shows how incredibly clean Trump is.
Alex, if they had something, it would have been leaked to the New York Times, the Washington Post on day one, it would have been leaked a long, long time ago, CNN, we blaring it all over the place. This would have come out by now if they had something substantial.
And they don't, which is why they're grasping at straws and all of these process crimes that you're trying to do against the president's son, like they may try to do against Roger Stone as well.
But what I think as people are starting to see this, and I think that people, even in the mainstream in middle America, Alex, they're not going to stand for it. They said, we elected this president.
And if you don't like his policies, that's one thing, but fight that out at the ballot box. This whole ideal that we used to have in this country was the peaceful transfer of power. It was on the hallmarks of the American Republic.
Yeah, they're trying to overthrow an election. Exactly. They're trying to violate the will of the people. So let me ask you this, Jack, in closing, the few minutes we have left. What is the word on sessions?
I know you have amazing sources. And what is the word? Do they have him in a KKK outfit? I mean, what is going on? The dereliction of duty, letting Rosenstein change the power of the Justice Department, letting them all run rogue.
They've caught him all doing this. He was involved in the old days covering stuff up. I mean, at a certain point, it's almost a dereliction of duty if Trump doesn't fire them 15, 20 deep. I mean, my God, it's just time to start chopping politically heads off.
Look, I would be surprised if sessions is there by February. And one of the big things that goes back and forth in Washington is they say, well, Mitch McConnell always replies, well, I gave Trump his AG. He wanted AG sessions and I gave him sessions. That's the one you asked for.
Well, you know what, Mitch McConnell, if you want to find time on the floor for an AG vote and other confirmation, you can find time because that's your job, McConnell. You can find time to appoint anyone that we want that the president puts up as his AG and you can confer, give him an up-down vote.
You can do that, right? We don't even, we can take some time away from voting for the next post office, you know, name change or something like that. The Attorney General of the United States at this point, regardless of what the reason is, he's not doing his job.
He is not wielding the powers that have been given to him and he's completely recused on pretty much everything. And even Rosenstein, by the way, has recused himself internally on the obstruction of justice issue.
And Mueller at this point is almost giving a completely free hand and completely free scope on what he's investigating. This has gone so far away from Russian interference and Russian...
That's because Mueller represents the neocons and the bushites and all the rest of them. The mood of the country from your view in the swamp, but from without the swamp, I see the mood. People see prosperity. They see things turning around.
They're genuinely angry. I predict a huge red tsunami, but there's going to be major democratic cheating, so they might be able to even defeat that. Trump barely got over the hump, even though we know there was massive fraud because his wave was so big.
But I think if they try to remove Trump or do any of this, I think it's going to be disastrous for the establishment. But like a mad dog with rabies, I don't think they can stop. So what do you think, Jack
Mesobic, from One American News Network, what do you think the mood is right now if they try this?
If they try this, if they try to, as you mentioned, to go so far as to put the president's son in handcuffs or parade in front of cameras or something like that, I think you are going to see people out in the streets waving flags, waving signs. You're going to see protests at the Department of Justice.
You're going to see protests in so many places because it will validate everything that Trump has said about this being a witch hunt and then going after him for political reasons, not for legal reasons.
Jack Mesobic, thank you for joining us. What else are you going to be covering on One American News today?
We're also going to be covering China's secret war on America, everything that China is doing to influence our elections, and why is nobody talking about that?
Well, please come back soon and tell us about that because more and more we're seeing. That's really the real war going on in this whole Russia.
Phantom is the diversion so the Chai comms can influence this election. God bless you, Jack Mesobic.
Thanks, Alex. Thanks, Ron, man.
Thank you, sir. Let's pray for Don Jr. and for the Trump family. These people have put it all on the line.
Trump has lost over a billion dollars of his money doing this. Thank God for Donald Trump, folks. We'll be right back. Thank God for you, by the way. All you listeners.
Who has the only raw living whole plant hemp CBD extract in the world?
Metahemp Solutions, a radically innovative approach to hemp CBDs for exceptional results.
Why? Because they contain absolutely all the elements present in the original plant.
All our hemp CBD products are independently lab tested for potency and purity and manufactured in our FDA registered facility.
Try it today. 10% off with coupon code GCN 10. Call 833-858-7500. That's 833-858-7500.
I'm Metahemp Solutions today at M-E-T-A-HempSolutions.com. That's MetahempSolutions.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too. If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 834-no-tax or go to my website, danpilla.com. That's danpilla.com danpilla.com.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals.
I consider a contribution 25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Absolutely free at the Apple Store and Google Play. You can join the InfoWars today. Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the InfoWars official app taken on the globalist at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
That's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support. Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, it shocks even me knowing what the communists on the left have been planning. We've had white African farmers on who are the most unracist, loving Christian people you can imagine, kind of like Amish, and who went into South Africa 400 years ago and built the whole place when no one was even there.
When huge tribal groups came in to take part in the prosperity, that's admitted history, where 600 million hectares of land unused in Africa more than anywhere else in the world, 60% of the world, is their big article on infowars.com dealing with this.
Trump orders State Department to closely study South Africans being killed, white South Africans being killed, the genocide, and their own government lobbying Australia not to take them.
And then you've got the vice president saying we're going to slit your throats and kill you, the president saying we're going to take your land. They ran on that.
And now Trump's being criticized by the left for saying that he's going to study it.
And now Owen Shroyer and Roger Stone's YouTube channel has been banned for violence because we showed black on white crime, which the left is pushing and promoting. We're Christians. We want everybody to live in peace.
Now Zimbabwe, after decades of the white farmers being murdered and leaving collapsed, they're now, I saw in the news, welking them back, crying and hugging them.
So this is an incredible time to be alive, ladies and gentlemen. And Pastor Rodney Howard Brown joins us. He runs revival.com, a huge international church based in Florida.
His new book is a bestseller. You get an info or store.com. They're trying to suppress it, killing Uncle Sam book.com is where you can get it or info wars.com. But the reason he joins us is he's from South Africa.
He left there because of the already the riots and the tyranny and the racial strife decades ago and came here with his wife and children.
And now he's been talking to people in the government on the latest what's happening, but the killings, the torturing, the shops being burned.
I mean, you can just go online and just look at it. It's amazing what's going on. And so Pastor Brown, thank you so much for joining us.
So you've got the floor of the next two segments. Kind of give people an overview so they know why it's getting so bad right now and the type of genocide we've seen against whites in other areas of Africa,
the following the same Zimbabwefication or Zimbabwefication, which you and others have predicted and the horror of the British government actually saying they agree with this.
I mean, this is next level showing the virtue signaling.
Hey, Alex, great to be with you again today. You know, here's the problem right now. There's struggles going on inside the ANC between Julius Malema, who is from the EFF.
And he's the one that's actually really pushing this. And of course, when the new president came in, for whatever reason, he started to talk along those lines and basically talked about land being taken away.
And it wasn't only just white land. It was also black land, Indian land, just really any land. But that, as you and I know, that's all the plan of what socialism does.
You can see the same thing happening in Venezuela. And of course, the killing of the farmers, which we understand the problems of the past, however, is also to destroy the food supply because if the food supply is destroyed,
then the people are reliant upon the government and they can play with them like somebody plays with putty.
And then, of course, the killing that's going on because they opened the borders. The country should have a population of 55 million, according to the Census Bureau from inside in Pretoria, who I've spoken to.
They said, unofficially, it's close to 100 million people. So you have the black on black violence, the xenophobia that's taking place because the tribes of the north are taking the jobs of the tribes in the south.
And then, of course, this whole thing of land and the killing of the farmers. So let's say there's close to about 60 murders a day, violent murders, about 22 whites, the rest are blacks.
And this is happening in the townships as they're hacking people into pieces. Now, it looks like Roma pauses leaning towards trying to appease Julius Malema and EFF by saying, look, we'll take away the land because he's trying to
unify the ANC's base before the national election come next year because they're afraid that the ANC's gonna lose. I just, when I knew I was coming here with you, I made a call to Dr. Kenneth Mishra, who is the head of the Christian Democratic Party.
He has been in parliament from the time of Mandela's inception and he, of course, is a pastor. And I called him, I said, Dr. Kenneth, tell me what's happening in South Africa.
He said, well, right now, he said, President Trump's tweet sent a shot across the bowels. It created major problems in South Africa and they all backpedaling right now.
So I said, is land being confiscated? He said, look, if there's any attempt right now, the police are stepping in and stopping it.
So yes, the killing's happening, but they have not really actually confiscated anything and the ones that have tried, the police are stopping it. So President Trump's tweet has really shocked everybody because they don't want him to, they don't know what he's gonna do.
And so I want to thank the president for just sending a shot across the bowel, but according to the report from Dr. Kenneth Mishra, who is a senior member of parliament since 1994.
He was in parliament, heard the president yesterday get up and say that they were looking at everything again and they were kind of trying to calm everybody down that it wasn't gonna be like what they thought.
But you and I understand what's really behind communism. So it's like on the one side, they want to appease their base. On the other side, they're afraid of what President Trump's gonna do.
And of course, Malema, he's always been the radical right from day one. And of course, Malema's being controlled from England. So a lot of this stuff is not just Malema's crazy.
I was about to say the British government has come out basically in support of this. And so people don't understand that the history of maybe in 60 seconds.
I mean, the Brits have only been there about 150, 200 years coming in trying to take it. So they've always been not the British people, but the government manipulating things.
Correct. So I mean, the whole fight, South Africa actually only got independence from the UK back in 1961. Before 61, they would sing God Save the Queen.
So, you know, it was a part of the British Commonwealth, much like Rhodesia or Zimbabwe, and Australia, New Zealand still are.
And then of course, they got independence from England in 1961, the year that I was born. But they had created all the problems that we actually have in the nation today.
And a lot of the stuff is just about taking out the mineral wealth of the nation. I mean, Zimbabwe has been pillaged on a daily basis where the diamonds are being flown out to the United Kingdom.
So the whole thing, you know, he is the way that the globalist banking cabal operates. They have to have conflict in order to distract the people.
So if the people can fight one another and kill one another, while they're doing that, they'll steal everything that they have.
You can see the same thing trying to be stirred up here in America. So that's why they put us against each other.
Well, exactly. For those of you who don't know, the real colonialists, these big megacorporations, don't want stability.
So they took out Gaddafi, so they took out the apartheid, which was not a good thing. Gaddafi wasn't good either. But they were stabilizing.
There was wealth. And then now all of Africa has doubled its numbers the last 10 years. It's imploding. South Africa has huge people pouring into it out of collapsed areas where they already killed all the whites and took their land to the north.
And so the same scenario is starting up again as communists pour in saying, now kill the whites again so we can eat this week, but we'll starve.
But then they would have run out of continent. So they're to the north running into Europe and to the south running into the sea.
And all of this is by design. Nothing is by accident. It's not just a group of people at random deciding they're going to do this.
So all of this is planned. And you can see the same. I see the same telltale signs here in America as we see what's happening.
It's an exact blueprint. We're all over the place. Professors say whites are bad. I denounced my whiteness. Kill whites.
Whites are inherently need to be gotten rid of. If we try to show the antifa attacks or black attacks on whites, the media literally censors us and will not let us show it.
Just like they won't show the Islamic crime in Europe.
Yeah. So basically, all groups are being funded right now by open society to preach critical race theory, which basically, I mean, I just saw a book that came out that we're talking about at one of the seminaries called Can a White Man Be Safe?
I mean, how do people come up with this insanity when we know from the Bible that the gospel is for every tribe and for every tongue and that Jesus died for every...
That's right. We'll be right back, Pastor.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
There are dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds. Go to infowars.com.
If you're new to the show, go to infowars.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Infowarslife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits. This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth.
One of the most popular health trends on the planet. Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarsstore.com.
Infowarslife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement. It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content. It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3. Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
All right, folks. Alex Jones here, back live. I want to go right back to the pastor because this is so critical on so many fronts, but if I don't plug, we won't be here.
We're selling his book, The Killing of Uncle Sam, that is the best because it's up to date. Condensed real history of Dundere color conspiracy, tragedy and hope, but all of that ended in the 60s and 70s and then updated.
Written with former high-level CIA folks, you name it, that helped them put it together. It is the definitive book. I read it over a weekend, even though it's a big, thick book, because it's little, concise chapters.
You want to have a real master's degree in how the world works. You want to have your high school students, instead of just believing all the fake reality they're taught.
If you read this, they will have a real college education on how the world really works and the value of knowing this value. I grew up with my dad teaching me all this because he was aware of all this and family that I had that had been involved in things that let them know how real this was and who told me how things worked.
This is more of an education than I got over all those years from family and this book or that book in one book, The Killing of Uncle Sam, available at m4works.com. And listen, Pastor Brown, myself, we're not making any money selling this book under the attacks we're under, the way he's being censored, the way he's being attacked.
We're victorious though. You know, we're not victims, we're targets, but we need your prayers, we need your financial support. I've got a bunch of great new products at m4workslife.com.
And this kept selling out as everybody knows. It was known as Caveman Ultimate Bone Broth. We have it stronger, a new manufacturer, it's amazing, and instead of it costing me $25 to make each keg out of it, now we've ordered four times more, so I got the price down.
So instead of selling it for $40, I'm selling it for $19.95, higher quality, lower cost, but I said double the order. Well, they already doubled the last, so they misunderstood it, quadrupled the order, my fault.
And I signed the contract, you know, not looking as I'm so busy, and so we do have a megaton of it, but it's really high quality, just came in, two 18-wheelers full of it. I'm not joking.
So it's $19.95, leading competitors aren't even as strong or good, and they're double the price. Chicken Bone Broth concentrated, you know how good that is for you, you know the Bone Broth research.
Turmeric root, chaga mushroom, bee pollen, goji berry, alfalfa herb powder, and even more. Your son's playing football, your daughter's a ballerina, you're into sports, you want stuff for your joint stamina, energy, you cannot be Ultimate Bone Broth.
50% off, 50% off, ladies and gentlemen, while supplies last, but I'm only going to do this for a week or so because we're selling a lot of it at this price.
People realize what a good deal it is, infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com, or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
We also have Ultimate Female Force just came in, which is the equivalent of alpha power for women. I mean, it is the strongest natural, healthy, herbal, and key compound for women, for energy, for stamina, for everything, for your hair, your nails.
It's super strong, a two-month supply, leading competitors are $50, $60, $70, it's $34.95 off right now, infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com, and whatever you do, go to the store, whether it's fish oil or honor roll fish oil for your kids, or whatever it is, support the broadcast, sign up for auto-ship, it's an additional 10% off,
but that way you don't have to worry each month or every two months, you can click every 30 days, every 60, every 90, every 100 or something, cancel anytime it's free to cancel before the order comes, and then you get an additional 10% off and remember to get the coffee or get the supplements you like,
and that way we can be sustained, because let me tell you, we've got some really good news coming, that's why they're panicking. We're about to get a bunch of these lawsuits thrown out, we've already had a bunch thrown out,
but they've done some really dirty stuff that I'm not going to get into on air, and it's really made some people mad, and I'm not supposed to get into it, so I'm going to stop, but just praise God,
but it's going to take a lot of money to beat this, and now that's why they want me arrested, that's why they're saying I'm a criminal now, and all these crazy lies, and let me tell you, I'm not scared, I'm scared of failure though,
I've done some really dirty stuff behind the scenes, it's biblical, I mean they are calling people up and threatening my family, they're threatening other people, they're digging into other people's background and trying to find something wrong with you,
Trump, and threatening them, and yes, Mueller is after me, they're investigating me as a Russian agent, they're also investigating me on other things, but I trust in Christ, but I'm just telling you, these people are evil,
and they're making their move, so I need your prayers, and I thank you for them, and I need you to support us financially, and to spread the articles and videos, because they're really mad right now, this is blowing up in their face,
Pastor, I'm sorry I had to rant and get that out, back to you and what's happening in South Africa, the same thing being done here, the fact that Trump said, hey, stop censoring, so Twitter quit,
he said, hey, don't kill all these farmers, so they stopped, and the police did the right thing, I mean the fact that the moral authority of America, Trump is so precious, the economy's coming back, the blessing of Abraham's coming back is what I'd call it,
he called God back in at that inauguration, I can feel the energy, where are we at a historical point right now?
Well, I think we're at a critical mass, I was talking to somebody just the other day, and they said, you know, it's almost like many in the church world have kind of relaxed now with Trump in office,
but we actually had a very dangerous time in America, because if we don't stand up, we have a window to turn this thing around, one of our associate evangelists who went to Newark, New Jersey on Sunday night, listen to this Alex,
in a park, Lincoln Park, Newark, New Jersey, the police said between 10,000 to 11,000 people showed up on the field, now they were supposed to have a week long permit for this meeting,
thousands of people are getting saved, they did Sunday night, Monday night, Tuesday night, Tuesday night the city would not extend their permit,
they already had a week long permit, they already put up electronic signs saying this meeting is ending tonight, this is the city of Newark,
and so a lot of it's controlled by Islam, they do not want the gospel preached, so they had to move the meeting indoors,
they're there last night indoors and tonight and tomorrow, but that takes away from the momentum, because people are coming by the thousands,
there's the spiritual energy of the Holy Ghost comes in and it's been well documented, literally people from miles around just feel it and are drawn to it.
Yeah, so one of the leading DJs in the area, a lady that's not even actually a Christian, what she's been doing is advertising the meeting, so thousands of people are coming, and so obviously the city don't want this,
they're trying to put a stop to it, I mean this is in Newark, New Jersey, so we have a window, even under Trump presidency, that if we don't preach the gospel and mobilize people in the streets and to turn this thing around,
it'll always shut down, you know, we don't know what's going to happen by the 2020, I mean I have a feeling, I believe we will get another term, but we have a window nonetheless,
and we have to stand and we have to fight, what you're doing, you're in the fight, God will give us the victory, but we have to take action and then we'll be given the victory,
it's assured, but we have to take action and Google and Apple, they're all taking Christian holidays off their calendars, but adding Islamic ones everywhere, cities pay to have huge Islamic centers in Minnesota and other areas, all paid for by taxes,
but as you said, Christians try to have revivals, the liberal police show up and say, no you can't do it, even if it's on private property.
As a matter of fact, the police are 100% behind him, they all stood in line for prayer, they would cry. I know the police in many areas are good, I'm just saying in some leftist areas.
Sure, no, but I mean the fact is that the city wouldn't extend the permitting, so I mean we have to get hold of the congressmen and senators, this kind of stuff is bogus,
you know, Islam's allowed to run free course across America, but the gospel needs to be allowed to run free course across America, I mean what are they afraid of?
Are they afraid they're going to lose followers? Are they afraid that the gospel has more power than anything that they could say? Obviously they are, that's why they want to center conservatives and people that preach the gospel of Jesus Christ,
but Alex, I don't believe that they're going to be able to stop it, there's an army of people that God is raising up in this hour, and your voice has lit the fire for many, many years,
and so, you know, it's not going to rest upon one, it's this whole army that God is raising up, they're going to carry the gospel of Jesus that we believe that we're going to have another great spiritual awakening,
and even back with South Africa, as I told the senior congressmember, I remember parliament, I said listen, we praying for you, stand, speak the word, I'm just concerned about some of our South African pastors that don't ever mention anything from the pulpit,
it's like they're afraid, they're concerned about the ramifications of it, but if we don't hang together, we'll hang separately, and if we don't stand up and proclaim the word of God,
all that has to happen for evil to prevail is for good people to do nothing, and so we have to stand up, we've got to shout it from the mountain tops,
and look, I mean, we've already counted the cost, Alex, you know, you see in the front of the book, if it means death and so be it, I don't plan to die,
but I'm not going to live in fear, but we have done nothing wrong, but we're going to stand and speak the truth, and you know, as I always tell people from the pulpit,
if the cat's first getting rubbed the wrong way, let the cat turn around, and if they don't like it, I say don't let the door hit you where the good Lord splits you,
I mean, I'm a radical, you know, I'm going to say what I feel in my heart and in my spirit, and I, so, you know, I told this evangelist, I said, look, don't give up, God's going to work another way,
what they should have had was a piece of ground just outside the city limits that they could have gone to and had that, but they didn't have that as a backup,
so we're always going to have a backup, if they do this, we'll do this, you know, we've got to be thinking steps ahead of the enemy and just continually do what we're supposed to do.
As far as South Africa is concerned, the president sent a shot across the bow that's got everybody afraid, so they're backing off, they're back pateling.
Pastor Brown, I know you've got to go, but we've got two minutes to come back.
We're going to do five more minutes, you want to come back and ask what else you think is on the horizon and how important this election is, 2018.
Stay with us, we'll be right back.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have an InfoWarsLife.
They take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price, it's stronger, it's the other equation in probiotics, it knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida, it's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months, it's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body,
then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids, so you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsLife.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake,
and it's so essential to spread the word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
It's Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide from the InfoWars.com studios.
Alright, Pastor Rodney Howard Brown is here from Revival.com, and we only have five minutes left with him.
I really appreciate you coming on this busy schedule.
Hope we'll come back for a full hour soon.
I don't want to get back to my shelf, but I want to pick your brain as you're a smart guy.
This purge against me, I think it was done because they wanted to set the precedent with me because they'd already demonized me, and then it would do it to everybody else.
And sure enough, they've now done that.
The president's vowing action.
I've got a battle plan.
I've gotten the president.
My last plan got to him.
That's one reason they started the ban.
They got so upset.
But what else do you think is going on here?
And what do you expect them to do next?
Because I agree, 2020 is critical, but I think they could make the move before the election.
I mean, they really want us blocked virally.
I think when some big event happens, that's what my spirit tells me.
Well, here's the thing.
I mean, obviously there's several things they could try to do.
As we know, you know, I've warned about this.
We did a one hour documentary that we aired actually across America back in 2016 that they could do an MP attack, knock out the grid.
Number one, number two, they could collapse the dollar.
Number three, you know, obviously they want race rights.
They want problems.
You know, they just want upheaval.
So I mean, the people behind the scenes, what people don't understand, they're wicked.
They don't care about life.
They don't care about people, even though they say that.
It could be the death of millions and millions of people.
They don't really care.
It's about the agenda.
It's about the total gender of the globalist of the new world order being pushed forward.
So we dealing with a lot of situations whereby we've got still voter fraud with the voting machines with those things cannot be trusted.
I'm just telling you right now.
You don't care what anybody says.
And then you have all the dead people that are voting as they were voting in the 2016 election.
So I mean, you've got dead people.
You've got more people in a precinct voting that actually live there.
I mean, the corruption is at all time high.
So obviously they don't want your voice, Alex.
But ultimately, they're not going to shut you down.
They can't stop you.
Truth will prevail.
So we understand the saying that, you know, a lie goes around the world before truth gets up and puts his pants on.
A lie goes around the world.
We understand that.
But ultimately, truth is going to prevail.
And the Bible says if God is for us, who can be against us?
So that's why we pray for you that God's about you as a wall of fire.
No harmony will come night to you.
And if the enemy digs a ditch for you, he's going to fall in and himself.
And we pray the same way over the president.
And we pray that God would unravel all of these things.
However, Christians need to go vote and they need to find out who they're voting for.
And they need to hold them up against the Constitution and against the word of God.
And realize we can't vote for people that are under the control of the globalist, a new order agenda.
Because some of them have sold themselves out to the highest bidder.
Unfortunately, Republican Party is as wicked as well.
But we have no other alternative.
So it's kind of like better the devil you know than the devil you don't know.
So, you know, make sure that everything stays in the hands of Republican.
Give us a little bit more time to turn this thing around.
Even though we understand that deep state is everywhere and trying to control the narrative.
But I believe that God has some surprises for them.
And I believe there's some things, even though they're my plan to crash Wall Street by October or whatever.
The plan is that the Bible says when the enemy comes in like a flood, the spirit of God will raise a percentage against him.
And so that's why the church needs to pray.
Every believer needs to pray.
That's why they want to get rid of real Christianity.
Because if we pray, we'll get the Providence and they know that.
But they can't stop us. It's too far gone, Alex.
It'll never be stopped. God has given us a last minute break.
They seem panicked.
The establishment seems genuinely freaked out.
Totally. They're running around like a chicken with a head chopped off.
Pray for the young evangelist in Newark.
He's moved into the Symphony Hall tonight and tomorrow night will be the next two nights.
And of course, he doesn't have the permit to do it outdoor, which that's the thing that speaks louder than anything you can imagine with 10,000 on an open field.
But I'm excited. I have an excitement in my spirit.
Come back in 60 seconds.
Your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the InfoWars.
All right, Doug Hagman of The Hagman Report has got massive breaking news as usual, just every segment is incredible.
I'm going to leave it at that, that they are planning to indict Don Jr. for nothing, for quote, misleading federal investigators, meaning they just pick away at some little point and claim they interpreted and then that happens.
It's unbelievable. So pray for Don Jr. And I want to thank the pastor for praying for us. We're praying for him.
We're praying for God's justice to be done and that we seek his face and try to humble ourselves. You can feel the spirit of God is in the world stronger than ever right now.
I think that's why the enemy is so upset. I want you to finish up, pastor, about how you're optimistic because I go to these court hearings where they're trying to take my kids away or they're trying to destroy us.
And they have Washington Post, New York Times, Buzzfeed reporters, and then their minions come. And I can't even make the faces of hate. When they look at me, they go, and they have this rage that is insane and isn't based on reality.
And they're all alone and they all hate each other. And statistically, they're nine times more likely to not give a charity, six times more likely to steal liberals are.
They're not liberals. They're just these monstrous, unhappy, turned over people. And it's like, as God's spirit is stronger in us, the spirit of the world, the devil is in them.
And you can really see it when the way these people act. I mean, it's otherworldly how, I mean, I've seen it when I was in places that are really under total evil like Seattle.
Or my chamber guy said, I don't want to be out anymore. He said, I'm not even scared of people. They're like zombies. We walk around one corner. There'd be normal people, but then you'd see one person walking normal.
And they'd see me and like something would jump in and they'd be like, and all of a sudden, you'll go down Jones and your family and screw your children. And then like, it was like right out of something like the exorcist.
And then you go on another corner, like, yeah, that's right. We're going to get you. And it was like they were finishing each other's sentences like the demons going out of the people and into the pigs and off the cliff.
And I mean, I've seen things in Seattle and a few other areas like San Francisco where it's like agent Smith of the matrix where he jumps in one person and jumps in another and jumps in another and jumps in another.
And I'm not I mean, I'm not kidding. What happened to like five or six people. Michael Zimmerman was there and he said, listen, we got to get out of this place is evil. I mean, it was like it was like the matrix. Go ahead. Sorry.
No, I mean, we're living in a time where people are being demonized people. That's why the church has been given the power to cast out devils. And so unfortunately, the churches don't even believe in devils.
And some of the preachers carry them as well. Some people carry passages. They look like a bus loaded with passages. And that's just one person. It's like the man at Gadara, the legion on the inside of him.
And and Jesus cast them out when they're the swine. So we have to have the power of God to get people delivered from the demonic lives of the enemy. These people, they're not even thinking straight, Alex.
I mean, the whole thing is is messed up, man. And, you know, but that's why we have to carry on preaching the truth. And the fact of the matter is, you know, when Jesus, when they came to grab him, he walks through the crowd.
He just went, they try to throw him over cliff. He just went to the crowd. So the fact of the matter, if God is for us, who can be against us?
And so, as I said, if they dig a ditch for you, they're falling in themselves. And I tell you, the only way forward is by the power of the Holy Spirit.
Whether people believe it or not, I'm talking to Christians, even in churches, some people say we don't believe in this Holy Spirit.
Well, I'm taking you and you're not going to make it. You will not make it without the power of the Holy Spirit, because it's only the Holy Ghost that will be able to surround you, protect you and to keep you just like Jesus until his time was to go to the cross.
They could not touch him. They could not touch him. And so we have to understand Psalm 91, he who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty.
I'll save the Lord. He's my refuge, my fortress. My God and him will I trust. So he's given his angels charge over us to keep us in all our ways.
And so the fact of the matter that the Lord is with us, the stories go down through the centuries of people that were exposed to situations whereby they could die.
But because the Lord was on their side, no evil could prevail against them. So I want to encourage you. I want to encourage everybody out there.
Yes, these are scary days. These are days of upheaval. No different as they were five years ago or 10 years ago. Personally, I'm much happier to be living in 2018 than in the year 1412.
So we have a lot of things at our fingertips. We have the ability to speak around the world and reach millions of people. We're back 200 years ago.
We'd have to settle up and ride and cry, you know, like, like a cry in the town. Yeah, he, yeah, he, you know, to give that kind of announcement.
We have so many tools.
We have the technology. Pastor Brown, you're amazing. Thank you so much. The book, The Killing of Uncle Sam available at m4store.com and killingitlesambook.com. I don't care where you get it, folks, just get it. God bless you, sir.
Alex, we love you. Bless you. We love you too. A great guy. I tell you, to really feel the Holy Spirit on him strong when you're around him in person, especially it's overwhelming.
I want to turn this over to Doug Hagman of the Hagman Report, a police trainer, private detective, best-selling author, really great guy who helped expose what was in the WikiLeaks and so much more.
I want to go to him and have him take over. He's getting massively censored just briefly here. Maybe later he can plug. But if you don't finance us, if you don't financially support us and if you don't go by the products, which I know you're doing,
it needs to be a lot of folks who've been on the fence. If you don't go get knockout, great natural sleep formula, 40% off right now or ultimate bone broth, 50% off out of the case, 1995 can't beat that.
A real red pill plus now with energy. If you don't get a book, a t-shirt, we won't be here. I mean, it's that simple. They're trying to shut us down, but they're trying to shut everybody down.
Doug, I'm going to let you take over because you're hosting the show and I want to hear what you have to say. Just briefly, picking your brain. I know you've been censored. You've got a lot coming up because they're doing this to everybody.
I think they use me as a smokescreen being deplatformed to just make it all about me because it's been nine of the long knives, man.
They have been just purging people from Prager University to you, just an absolute reign of terror, A, ahead of the midterms, but also I think ahead of a big event they're going to stage where they don't want us on air to counter it.
Let's turn this mic on. Thanks, guys. Maybe it's not me. I didn't want to believe that, but I do believe that now. In fact, I've got to say that everything I've been hearing, there's some sort of event being planned ahead of the midterms,
especially if the polling, which they've got rigged as well, suggests that there won't be a blue wave. It'll be a red plague, shall we say.
Then, of course, they're going to do something. But it's interesting because when you were censored, when I watched Alex was primarily four companies having a $2.4 trillion value combined within 12 hours of one another,
conspiring together just to de-platform you. And to me, that's incredible, and that certainly is not coincidental. But if you consider a $2.4 trillion combined value of these four companies, Apple, Google, Facebook, and so on,
you're looking at the seventh largest sovereign power in terms of GDP.
It's an extremely bold and reckless move, showing they're committed to something and don't want us on air for some big event.
Yeah, exactly. So, I mean, of course, I ask a lot of questions. For example, why now? Why now? Why you? Obviously, you, because you've got the largest platform out there.
But why now specifically? They could have done this six months ago. They could have done this five months ago. But why now?
And I think we have to pay attention to the news that just right after, everything that's coming forward right now is, in particular, what you spoke about earlier with Jack Pasobic, the potential indictment of Donald Trump Jr.,
which I've gotten independent of Jack Pasobic. I think we've got different sources. Yeah, and it's going to be bad. Things that are coming, it's going to be bad.
I think Trump's going to take the gloves off. He's got to. What else? I mean, what other options does he have? And by the way, I don't know if you just heard this.
It was my understanding that we've got maybe a visit by the Attorney General to the White House here today. Yes. Have you heard that? Okay.
All right. All right. We'll look into that. I did see that. We'll come back and talk about that right now. But yeah, the Attorney General needs to be thrown out on his butt.
I mean, it's easy. I don't know how they compromised him or what happened to him or he's senile or, you know, what do they got him in a KKK outfit?
I don't know what the deal is. We'll be back with Doug Hagman's day where the sun's coming up, too. He helps with the broadcast and co-hosts.
To be healthy and achieve optimal hydration, get your Dylan bottle today at dyln.co. That's dyln.co.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you, too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system. The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
Made in the USA, it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars. It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield and infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones.
All right, Doug Hagman's taking over, but I love talking to him. When his son's coming up as well, a lot of key information, but I wanted this morning when I got here to thank the audience up front.
I just get distracted with them trying to shut down all our other channels and other people on those channels and it's just the insanity going on. It's totally crazy, but I want to thank the listeners and viewers.
I know I get owners that say, help me, help us, help us, but you can see now we're front and center. I mean, I already knew we were front and center. I knew they were trying to destroy us. I already knew I was giving information to patriots and stuff, and there's a lot of things people don't know.
I'm just going to leave it at that, but believe me, at the Pentagon and in the Marine Corps and the Army and other places without Trump even trying in the classes and special operations and in all the groups they are,
they're finding out all this stuff. They now know it's true. They're having a crash course in the New World Order. Trump, they, I mean, it's, it's, let me tell you something.
Let me tell you, America is awake and that's where the left's moving to shut everything down because they're not going to get away with it. And later today, Thursday afternoon, it's not the best time to launch something, but I got this a day ago.
I got the sources that I know are getting into the president. The word is they already got it to him. I don't know if he's read it yet. We need to flood the world with this.
And so I tell you what I'll do.
I'm going to shoot a live report on Periscope at three o'clock with this because I get something that's powerful.
I've been consulting with three different big law firms, one of them is top Republican law firm and because I went to them and I said, I said, because they already done some work for me and I said, I want you to look at all this. And they said, Oh, absolutely. And I've got other law firms that want to sue and he trusts you.
They looked at it. We have a battle plan for the president. I know he's formulating a battle plan right now.
But most people are scared to form a battle plan against big tech and then Chicom because they know it's a death sentence. Well, it's a death sentence given into this. So at three o'clock, I will do a live feed at m4wars.com on all of this.
And it's not like I'm like, oh, I got a big breaking story. When you get stuff this powerful and this historic, I don't want to say I get butterflies. It's set up feels like a thousand pound rocks on your head like Atlas.
Like, man, it's up to us. But I'm telling you, listeners, I appreciate you and I thank you. So when I'm telling you, please help us, please help us.
It's because I want to win and I want to drive over the top and I need you and I love you and I appreciate you, no matter what color you are or where you came from.
Or if you love liberty, you love freedom and you spiritually feel what's happening and you want to go to the next level, we're together, brothers and sisters in arms.
So Doug, thank you. Go ahead and take over and God bless you.
Thank you, Alex. And I can speak for all of us here at the Hagman Report and the various people that we, some mutual friends and others that we stand behind you.
We love you and we will back you 100%. And that's not just talk.
Thank you.
Thank you, Alex.
Back you too, brother.
We're going to be tuning into, of course, three o'clock Central Time, four o'clock Eastern Time Periscope. Make sure you catch that because I have a feeling. I think I know, I kind of know, but I really don't know.
But if I know Alex Jones, I know that it's going to be well worth your time to listen.
Again, that's three o'clock Central, four o'clock Eastern Periscope breaking news with Alex Jones.
All right. Sitting in for Alex Jones here. And I want to say thank you to everyone out there as well.
Look, we're in the fire line, firing line two. And there's a number of topics I want to get into during this hour that I'm going to be sitting in for Alex Jones and hosting.
First, let me say this. Please support the operation. Alex Jones will not. I mean, he talks about the products, but he doesn't talk necessarily about how much to the penny the operation is really sinking him, costing him.
I should say. It's a big cost. And I know our platform costs a lot of money. So please support InfoWars. Go to infowarsstore.com.
Get your, all of your health products at infowarsstore.com. Do it today because it helps InfoWars. It helps fund the operation.
But most importantly, it helps you. DNA Force Plus. I'm going to tell you some of these products, I have not been able to try them all.
But some of them, including the one for focus. Yeah. As I stumble over that, it works very well. The Alpha Male Pack, tremendous.
Brain Force Plus. I'm going to tell you, that's a great product. I don't know what, I mean, I do know what they put into it, but it really works extremely well.
By the way, it's on sale right now for $29.95. I've seen it offered at places for three or four times that. It's a similar product, but it's got just the number of great powerful ingredients.
Of course, in Brain Force Plus, there it is on the screen. So folks, please support InfoWars. InfoWars.com. Do it. And we're going to fight this fight together.
So, alright. As I mentioned, and I'm going to have, I'm going to ask Joe, my son, we have the Hagman Report. In case you don't know folks, I'm just going to tell you real quick.
HagmanReport.com is where, that's my home base. And we have a show Monday through Friday, 7 to 10 PM Eastern.
Oh, it was interesting. I'm the beginning of this here momentarily. It was interesting. It was on Tuesday morning when we received a notice from YouTube, which is one of many platforms on which we broadcast.
We have a satellite. We broadcast via satellite on other platforms as well. But we received a notice Tuesday morning that we were in violation.
We got a copy, or not a copy, right, but a, what is it, video or community guidelines? That's how they're banning everybody.
Wow, a voice. Okay, there you go. They're purging everyone. Oh, I know. They're purging everyone. It's criminal.
Alright, so we got that. And you know what Mr. Jones had said, Alex Jones said this, that they take away your ability to even show that you didn't do what they said you did.
But they don't tell you what you did, but you can't respond because they take down the video and block you from preventing or prevent you from putting it back up.
So that's that. And then I got, there was additional, the appeal, we appealed it and asked them for additional information.
Within 10 hours, we were declined. The appeal process usually takes several days. And there's nothing there.
Oh, you're right. When they should do real appeals, it might take two weeks. Now, we do appeals instantly tonight.
Exactly. Exactly. As a matter of fact, I said, I think it was 10 hours. It could have been 10 minutes. We didn't check it because we didn't expect anything for a number of days.
So, yeah. And in fact, we were told that we were next and we were going to be deplatformed across all of the social networking and the fighting back.
And again, I can't wait for your four o'clock periscope, three o'clock central time, because I want to see what you've got planned.
I think the fight is there. And I think the president needs to step in, given the fact that this is the most, well, YouTube, in the case of YouTube, the most monopolistic visual medium.
Now, there are other platforms out there, but this is the most monopolistic. And you're talking about the 1850 Sherman Antitrust Act, which could be applicable here.
And I think that it would behoove people to remember that a lot of the Defense Department monies, DARPA monies, went into, for example, the creation of Facebook.
It didn't start in Zuckerberg's garage, for example, or dorm room. It may have germinated there, but it was helped along the way with taxpayer monies.
So, could we be looking at a Sherman Antitrust Act situation, like a mob bell situation?
Some people say, well, wait a second. That's not it. That's not because it's a private platform. But folks, rethink that idea. Doug Hagman sitting in for Alex Jones.
Remember, infowarstore.com. Going to be right back after this break. Stay with us.
We salute you all. We're in this together. Big events coming up. That's HagmanReport.com. Those are our home bases.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
The best hot or cold pain relief. Get the best. Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad. Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work, and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Take another pill. Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain. Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us. That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon. Just go to amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos, you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Glovelist. It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word. You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage. And that's why we need you to go to the site now. If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
At the Apple Store and Google Play, you can join the info war today. Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the info wars official app. Take them on the globalist at point blank range. And with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
We have a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
It's a little better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from the info wars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
And this is info wars Doug Hagman sitting in for Alex Jones. I'll tell you what Alex saved my bacon just a couple seconds ago and dust on my lapel. But also if you notice that last last segment I was about 15 seconds off now bear in mind bear in mind look.
Okay, I might not be the price bulb in the in the bunch but I've got this this time clock or this clock that's probably I know three feet wide. So there's no way I could miss a cue either incoming or outgoing.
And for me in other words did to the break and such but of course Alex saved my bacon by by by apparently I'm looking at the numbers and I'll be working on my alphabet tomorrow in my numbers today I was looking at the numbers and I had 14 seconds to spare so Alex came in and saved me so well.
I just enjoy sitting back and had my lunch and listening to you so get get into your show man I'm so I've grabbed 20 minutes the broadcast.
No, I love it man I love it. A couple of things and I guess just for continuity purposes you know Alex was talking about of course the censorship on the larger platform censorship and of course showing the democracy matters the media media matters for America this document here
serves as pages from a June 21 2016 meeting at in Turnberry, the Florida, the island or an island down there in Florida. David Brock and how sure blue crew and a number of other agencies NGOs are coming together and are delivering payback to the Republicans to the well to the
conservatives shall we say conservative Christians and all of that. So to keep continuity of that and again I just want to mention that the aren't there's this huge argument out there that there's it's divided and I want to address this because I think it's important
it's divided in the people who are supportive of Alex Jones and free speech in us and free speech and really really want to really believe that speech should be free not banned. There should be no capricious banning across the social network platforms,
whether it be us or or whoever notice however that and Tifa the the heat of the left is never censors it's never tempered by anyone it's only amplified. So on one end they censor they ban.
They take away the platforms of informers on the other side they amplify the left the propagandist of the left and they do this. They've been doing this now with aggressive this aggressive approach, and it's really affected everything now they're going after the
revenue. They're going after the stores they're going after the payment gateways whether it's Mastercard or visa. They're taking away the ability for ease of process of payment that will come that's already here but that will become more prevalent in the coming
days. It's all part of it's all it's all outlined by David Brock media matters. And of course his boyfriend James Alfonso and other luminaries funded by source of course, and other monies on the on the left. And this would have been a lot quicker coming I believe in the days of Clinton.
Should she should she have won so but when I asked what I wanted to do is I want to bring my son Joe on because he he was what he's been doing and he's been doing investigation on the other side or on the backside of what we're seeing.
And he's got some information through his investigation he's done hours upon hours of investigation about shadow banning, but the platforms affected about the just any number of things show. Thanks for coming on with me man I know it's cutting in your
day time off but they, and by the way, yeah, what's that right. We do a show together. This is my son we do a show together Monday through Friday some of the 10pm Eastern time. After you done watching Alex Jones and for worse go to Agment report calm watch us there because we can live stream on just like just like
Alex Jones and in force can't live stream on on on YouTube so we had to set up our own server, and we broadcast off our own website this is our own dime it's expensive bandwidth is usually expensive. But Joe, what, what if.
Yeah, what have you specifically. I've, I really haven't covered a lot with regard to the specifics.
Yeah, this document. Yeah, the band and it does tie into the document you have there. It's a, you know, media playbook really to censor alternative and other media and if you look at the language in this, in this publication they use words like we're going to
punish we're going to harass we're going to delegitimize and basically come after anybody who they deemed to be fake news or right wing propagandists. And we see this. What they talk about the language in this document is really coming to life, especially this summer and we've seen it
little bits here and there people being kicked off Google people being kicked off YouTube or having their channels deleted. But with the banding across the board of Info Wars it showed the coordination between the social media companies and between the share blues the media
matters and all these deep state organizations that are in the government. And it's across the board we see the attacks on President Trump they say in this document that they're going to that President Trump is going to continue to be plagued by a huge increase in
negative news stories and constantly having to address scandals that him and his administration are going to be constantly fighting legal battles in court. And we ask the question how do they know this in 2016 early 2017 how unless they have a plan for this and obviously they haven't gone as far as to publish so much of that plan.
And then there's another angle to this you talk about the Chinese style social credit score the Chinese style censorship. We're looking at it and this is from Breitbart today. The President of China held a conference if you will where they are talking about the importance of having a healthy internet
removing propaganda and politically sensitive content. And this all ties into that social credit score and we're going to be seeing that much more of these style Chinese style communist and socialist style tactics across the social media spectrum
implemented on right wing on even you know middle center of the aisle if you look there was a on the Daily Caller today Facebook flag the New York Post article as being spam because it was pro Trump and this is the next phase that we're going to see we're going to see the more middle of the line mainstream
on the list at you know real news publications all across the country fighting these types of censorship attempts. Okay. And that's the thing too. It's a gradual it's like a pincher movement almost against all of the truth telling media while leaving the mainstream
mockingbird media alone so you mentioned something earlier which I just I caught this and I want I know you had done some investigation on this. The fact that crew the ethics department of this democracy matters action plan had laid out that they were going to sue the
government for ethics violations at every turn. And he said how do they know that. Yeah my question to you is what it was is Obama part of this because you looked into this like a lot because Obama's got a team right now.
And this is where you know so much of the overlap in the FBI and the DOJ and you know we see the personnel changes in the FBI was a 25 senior agents you know from Comey down have been removed from the FBI which is a huge you know change
historically looking at personnel and this is all due to the corruption all due to the conspiracy that they created with this phony Russian collusion story against President Trump and they even talk about in this document how they're going to continue to come after
President Trump how he's not going to be able to really do anything positive in the face of constant negative news constant new revelations of negative news pertaining to this Russian investigation and we've seen over two years of this bogus
investigation this bogus Russian collusion narrative has produced nothing except the indictments and conviction of Paul Manafort on eight counts of financial crimes dealing back to 2005 and before.
And the same thing with Michael Cohen as you pointed out on our show last night pleading guilty to two charges that don't even exist. And then you have the lawyer begging for money. I don't know if you saw this on CNN asking people to donate
to a Michael Cohen. You know for truth website which was really funny because if you actually follow that link the Michael Cohen for truth website. It goes to a Donald Trump website so somebody in the IT world screwed up there.
But he was on Facebook on CNN begging for money for Michael Cohen. And this is just the latest of the you know the sideline distractions which they say in this document they're going to continue to use to delegitimize the president.
All right. More with Hackman and Hackman straight ahead on the other side. Yeah we've even got that video you guys wanted of people bullying them when they asked for money for Cohen.
This is Lenny Davis the Hillary lawyer. This is all a Hillary inside job. Stay with us with Hackman and Hackman.
I'm going to talk about the most popular platforms where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds. Go to info wars dot com forward slash show. Subscribe to the free podcast. Click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in it'll pop up there. It's also critical to go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com forward slash show how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see. I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that.
When you buy t shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info wars store dot com. You are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot say it any clear.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com. I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple eight two five three three one three nine.
And your purchase of the products stands with us stands with America stands with Trump stands against the globalist and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Info wars life is launching its newest product. We're really really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as my cozy acts that targets the yeast the mold and the fungus is in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out of a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today. Info wars life dot com. Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of survival shield X2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com.
Live from the info wars dot com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We are under attack. The truth tellers, the people in the media, the new media, the truthful media, we are under attack. And there are no spectators. There cannot be any spectators in this war.
If there's nothing else you take away from my time here is that you've got to make a decision. You are either for us, for the truth or you're against us. There is no gray area. There's no, I'm going to sit on the couch, wait to see how it plays out.
I'm just going to watch this. You can't do that. Another thing. I'm a big fan of the word Schadenfreude. It's a German word and I've spoken about this before perhaps on this platform but I want to just make sure I address this.
Because every time I see, for example, a new story about info wars or about us for that matter or about any other platform out there that's been banned or has been suffered in some way, there always are these people who pile on.
Now, you remove the googly eyes as I call them and you know who I'm talking about, the googly eyes. Get rid of them because there's no help. But the people who pile on and say, well, good, good, you've got no idea what you're talking about.
You've got no idea what you're doing. You have no idea how intellectually bankrupt you are in history. And I'm not talking about the audience that views and listens to this broadcast, theinfowarinforrest.com, for information.
I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about the people who listen for the very smallest of thing that they will take objection to, make objection to and of course say, yay, you know, Alex Jones was banned or info wars was banned or Hagen was banned or whatever.
You people look up the word Schadenfreude. It's German for those who derive pleasure from someone else's misery because I'm going to tell you you're going to be living in that misery, whether you believe it or not.
It's because of your acquiescence to this globalist agenda that will, you're going to find yourself in that position. So that's a warning to those people who pile on and say, okay, let's have a party now.
Or Hagen reports crap or info wars. You get the idea, right? So don't fall into that trap. Understand that we are all fighters in this war. There's no spectators. We're all participants. And if you choose, just keep your mouth shut and stay silent and you're signing your own death warrant.
Metaphorically speaking, of course, which is why the midterms are so important. And what's this covering up? Look, I've got a good information. I saw Jack Sobacke, a good friend of mine and good friend of the program, good friend of info wars saying that the Donald Trump Jr.
indictment, Donald Trump Jr. is in the crosshairs. And if you consider the nefarious nature of this, of what Mueller is doing, man, I'll tell you, it should send a chill up and down your spine. And I'm not talking about the chill from Acosta or whoever that was on them.
I can't remember. I'm talking about what Mueller is doing, because he is destroying not just a man, not just his family, but destroying a nation. And there's his mug right there. All right.
Let me bring Joe Hagman back on. Joe Hagman is my son. Some say we look like brothers, of course, because he looks a lot older than me. I had him when I was 12.
Do we know that indictment is from the Trump Tower meeting with that Natalia? Yes. Because you wrote a story the other day that she was actually, you know, discharged or dispatched on orders under the Obama administration to conduct that meeting.
Exactly. And there's some credible information that ties that directly to the Obama administration. So my question, if they bring this up in court, how will that, how would Mueller be able to dance around the fact that this was an Obama
administration generated attempt to set him up to make it appear as though he is colluding with Russians?
Why? I mean, that's a great question. Here's a couple of issues I want to run by you because I'm not sure that you've heard these. Very interesting.
We know, of course, Natalia Veselnitskaya. Now, we're talking about the the indictment over the June 9, 2016 Donald Trump meeting at the Trump Tower. Okay. Just so we're clear on that. It was 20 minutes.
It was supposedly to obtain opposition research. Donald Trump saying, yeah, you got something. All right, show me what it is. I mean, who wouldn't do that?
20 minutes of nothing but the Magnitsky Act discussion. But here's something that most people don't know. Do others? Two things. One, perhaps most people do know and the other most people don't.
The fact is, Glenn Simpson from Fusion GPS met with Veselnitskaya, the attorney, the female attorney that talked about the Magnitsky Act with Donald Trump Jr.
Both before, the day before and the day after the Trump Tower meeting, whilst during his testimony, Simpson's testimony in front of Congress, he denied knowing about the meeting at all.
But really what's breaking now, and I had to go back to 2017, I think early 2017 to find this, Veselnitskaya was pictured with Obama officials in Washington, D.C.
Five days after that meeting. And how many people know that? Veselnitskaya pictured with Obama operatives five days. It was on June 14, 2016, when she was a guest of former, now former Obama administration, Russian ambassador,
Michael McFarlane of Washington, D.C. for House Representative hearing on U.S. policy toward Putin's Russia. Did you know that?
No. No, I did not.
Looking at this whole situation, I don't know how they can continue with the straight face to further this Russian narrative. Everybody, including the American public, already knows that this is just a distraction.
And what it is distracting from in a big way is the accomplishments of President Trump. If you saw today the target, the CEO of Target said that this is the best consumer and business environment that he's seen ever in his lifetime under President Trump.
And I don't know if you guys talked about the Trump saying if he was impeached that the market would crash. I thought that was pretty interesting, but you mentioned it.
I guarantee it. Yeah.
And I want to make sure we get this in because on this, you know, we're talking about this document, the David Brock Confidential Memo on fighting basically Trump and the Trump agenda.
On page 15 and 16, it outlines their overreaching or overarching strategy and they specifically focus on the midterm elections, stating that their midterm map appears difficult for Democrats. Damaging Trump in the next two years could change that.
And then they go on to the state that Republicans running in 2018 will be plagued by what is best known for as research opposition, video tracking and rapid response.
And then from there, they go on to talk about new technologies to generate rapid and instant response across social media to identify fake news platforms.
But the fact that as soon as President Trump was elected, you know, we're talking in the matter of days after after he was elected before he was even sworn in.
They're putting this together and they're laying out this battle plan, identifying the midterm elections as the next, you know, chance where they can regain as much power.
And if you read this document, one thing that's really interesting is that when they regain power, they do not plan to ever lose it again, or they plan on doing something which it will never change hands again.
They're not going to find themselves in a situation where they have a quote unquote enemy like President Trump in the office that could be able to damage them.
And this is all part of their strategy, but it starts here really in the social media and media environments.
And now it's going to move to the mainstream more with the 2018 midterms. And this is going to be really what we see rolled out here for the midterms is an indicator and just a small picture of what we're going to see in the next election and the presidential election in the 2020 race.
Man, we only have a minute 40. Exactly. We got a minute 40 left, Joe. Yeah. So this is for all of the power for the rest of the days left on the planet.
Okay. And that's what they're playing for keeps are playing for all the marbles and they will do anything by any means necessary.
By the way, Donald Trump, it's my belief. This is my personal belief. Donald Trump will be impeached or taken out completely in ways that we don't even want to contemplate.
That's my viewpoint. I don't know your thoughts and 30 seconds on that.
You know, I don't know. It's very interesting to see the amount of not only Democratic candidates, but also Republican candidates who are anti Trumpers or never Trumpers that are part of this establishment that are on on board and behind the scenes, you know,
clapping and cheering the censorship, clapping and cheering this socialist and communist takeover the Democratic Party that it's hard to tell how these people would vote.
And, you know, we also talked about the fact that the Republican power structure, you have the House of the Senate and the presidency, but they are not able to accomplish anything significant.
They got the tax cuts done, but we also got the $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill with that. And that's the only thing notable that they've accomplished in two years.
So you got to ask yourself, you know, what are they doing? Why it's not should not just be Trump alone. It should not just be the supporters of Trump alone.
You need a working political body to continue to move this agenda forward and Trump does not have that now.
Fantastic. Joe Hagman. He's my son. He's the other half of the Hagman report. That's HagmanReport.com. Folks, bookmark that site.
Also, when you're there, sign up for the newsletter right underneath the banner there so we can stay in touch as we get banned systematically from all platforms.
I'm going to thank, oh, by the way, folks, visit InfowarsStore.com. Support Infowars operation. By the way, Alex has got a periscope coming up here momentarily.
Make sure you tune into that. Thank you, Alex. Thank you, Infowars. Thank you, everyone. May God bless you.
Years ago, Infowars Life created the powerful Michael ZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
Michael ZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
Michael ZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Michael ZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfowarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce, and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, immune gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With super blue silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle.
Only available at InfowarsLife.com. That's InfowarsLife.com.
