An emergency transmission from deep in the heart of Texas and U.S. resistance
missed a global corporate combine empowered and funded by Communist China
allied with the big mega banks that set up Communist China in 1949.
The Communist Chinese have taken control of U.S. telecommunications infrastructure.
The Communist Chinese have taken control of Hollywood. The Communist Chinese have taken
control of the main universities. This is all confirmed. This is not a drill.
Big Tech and Silicon Valley is almost completely run by the Communist Chinese government.
They've officially become state-run Apple 100%. Google is now making the transition
and announcing a merger in total worldwide censorship. They are now beta testing using
me as the straw man. A demonized version of Alex Jones to do that. This is happening.
This is not like the other probes before that were meant to get you used to probes and censorship.
Thinking you would adapt to censorship by just putting up with it. Now this attack is thousands
and thousands and thousands of times the magnitude of all previous attacks. This is a titrated dose.
Reverse psychological warfare operation using adapt and overcome subversion paradigm manipulation.
In layman's terms they are manipulating the fact that we adapt to being oppressed.
We adapt to being pressed with the low dosages of oppression. Now when the mega ton hits us
of the total takeover we try to adapt to the poison infusion instead of not knowing it's
a lethal dose if we accept the dose. Total Internet of Things integration global social
score complete command and control system. It is the virtual reality AI platform system
now attacking the United States with traders inside the major security agencies blocking
Trump's resistance of the program and attempting to stop us from removing the tentacles of the
Chai Con slash Big Tech begging combine emergency situation. I have been chosen for destruction
because I brought you this information and have been battering ramming it out as much as I can.
They want to double use me as they always do in any complex system of mathematical deception
where every angle of my good is turned against us so they take what I've said being sincere
building into an insincere person in the straw man. I'm a person that cares about life and
children and is against these wars and so they make me a herder of children and then they build me
into this line to then set the distraction while they're actually censoring all of you to make a
debate about Alex Jones so even if I didn't sell out to them they now use me as an archetype to
serve them by being the main distraction. I have now been captured by the enemy in the information
warfare program and it's being used against you only your full understanding of this key will
break you free from this paradigm. I have given you the transmission, now break free!
I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the
mind of man, Thomas Jefferson. If you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance.
As you probably heard recently many of the biggest tech companies joined in a coordinated
effort to censor content from broadcaster Alex Jones. They're never going to remove him,
that's crazy, that's too far. This isn't about Alex Jones, this is about freedom.
Trump's election and Alex Jones' popularity are merely symptoms of a corrupt and failed status
quo. You have about 800 million followers, that's why you're banned. Social media censorship.
Virtually every day the big tech companies censor someone else whose political opinions they disagree
with. Facebook's censor off-repeats and saying all the ones that don't even see that we have been
censored. For many on the left the view seems to have become that if you can't beat them prevent
them from speaking. They broke their algorithm to try to steal the selection. Now they're down to the
left corners of the internet. Oh no, conservatives can speak to one another, we must shut it off.
People know what's true, they can smell it, you can't stop them from knowing that.
That's right ladies and gentlemen, you won. We won. We won the battle for truth, we won the battle
for information and all they have left is their brainwashed minions in the streets,
their brainwashed leftists, their cultists and their group think. And they are now trying to
mold and morph and manipulate the internet so that their false consensus that everybody
hates Trump, everybody hates America, everyone wants to live in a world where everything's racist.
That's what they're trying to push, but you won. They lost so they have to erase you off the playing
field. Don't let them continue to spread the links, continue to go out in the real world in the 3D realm
and talk about info wars, talk about the truth, have conversations with people.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here
in Leilani estates, but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned
about ash and acid rain. Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower
the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out we employed a series of tests for heavy metals,
alkalinity and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy
metals and acidity in the rainwater. Next we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to
optimal levels. As it turns out the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water,
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it. Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war and now your host
Owen Troyer. Are the globalist reeling right now? Yes! Is America having a rejuvenation economically,
spiritually? Yes! Are you having a victory right now in the fight for truth and liberty? Yes!
Welcome to the Alex Jones show. Filling in for Alex Jones today, I'm Owen Troyer. We will be
hearing from Alex Jones today in the third hour. Dr. Nick Begich hosts the fourth hour. We're going
to have a lot of exciting things to talk about with him. Roger Stone is going to be joining
the show in just 30 minutes. Breaking news coming about Roger Stone's situation right now when it
comes to the Mueller probe. We're going to get the exclusive from Roger on that shortly. Will
Johnson from United America first joins me at 12.30. He has just been censored off Facebook.
You will not believe why. Now, before we get to the great broadcast today and all the news and
our great guests, last night President Trump held a rally in Indiana and every Trump rally seems to be
bigger and better than the one before. And while it seems to be redundant for the audience to tune
in to every Trump rally that he's going to be doing three a week now soon, it really is incredible
to listen to Trump speak, see the energy in the crowd, feel the energy in the crowd, feel the
momentum in America changing, feel the status quo changing, feel and see the people getting the
power back. Maybe not necessarily as much as we need to have the power of the government, but the
power to know what's going on, the power to be informed, which is what they're trying to stop
right now by censoring info wars and other conservatives on the internet. But listen to
President Trump last night as he is well aware of what's going on. He's warned the tech giants
what you're doing is illegal. He's even pushed it so far as to say it's a very antitrust situation.
We're going to cover all that news, but listen to President Trump last night addressing big tech
censorship at his rally in Evansville, Indiana. Importantly, my administration is also standing
up for the free speech rights of all Americans free speech rights. Look at social media. It's
a thing called free speech rights. You look at Google, Facebook, Twitter and other social media
giants. And I've made it clear that we as a country cannot tolerate political censorship,
blacklisting and rigged search results. And you know, it can go the other way also.
We will not let large corporations silence conservative voices. And it can. It can go
the other way to someday. It can play little tricks with them. We're not going to let them control
what we can and cannot see, read and learn from. We can't do that.
And America is a free country. And we are going to stay always a free country.
We're defending American values. And we're also defending our great American interests
all over the world. And President Trump again, going on the bully pulpit
right now, doing these rallies, endorsing candidates, conservative candidates that
are running for Congress, running for governor. It looks like in Indiana, you're going to have
Donnelly unseated. A Democrat is going to be unseated in the upcoming midterm elections
by the guy that Trump endorsed last night. Of course, I can't remember his name right now.
But President Trump going and doing these rallies is such a game changer because
it energizes his base unlike anything else. A sound clip on TV doesn't quite do it like
Donald Trump live for an hour off the teleprompter, off the cuff, telling it like it is.
And what scares them honestly, Trump is one angle. A president of the United States that
they can't control. Yes, that scares them. But millions and millions and millions of Americans
seeing the truth, seeing the censorship, seeing the authoritarian nature of the tech left,
seeing the traitorous nature of the Democrat Party, and then having it highlighted
and then hammered by President Trump when he does these rallies with tens of thousands of people
in the audience, where he has a speaker come up and the speaker says, wow, thank God, President
Trump kept us from Hillary Clinton and the entire crowd chants, lock her up for 60 seconds.
That's America. That's the American people coming back. That's what has the globalist
scared. And just like for us, now they're never going to tell you this, but just like we realize,
if they take out Alex Jones, they take out everybody. If they take out Alex Jones,
they take out free speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the globalists and the deep state understand
for them, the same formula applies to Hillary Clinton. If Hillary Clinton goes down, if the
crimes of Hillary Clinton go public and she goes down and even to jail, they're all going down.
So that is the nexus point that we have reached. That is the juxtaposition
that we are now at in the allegory of life. We understand on our side of things,
if they take out Alex Jones and make an example of Alex Jones to censor free speech, free speech
is dead. If we can bring justice down on Hillary Clinton, if we can arrest Hillary Clinton for
all the crimes that she's committed, all the crimes of the shadow government and the deep state
are next and they know it. So just like Alex Jones for them is the first domino to fall
in the line of censorship against free speech, Hillary Clinton will be the first domino to fall
in the line of total criminality by the government, the shadow government, by the globalists,
and by the people that are trying to censor us right now. And the first test case of censorship
is Alex Jones. That's right, Owen, and we've got some big special reports coming up the third hour.
Dr. Nick Beggis joining us. I'm working on a bunch of big news here behind the scenes, but
this is a real civil war by pro-American forces and the globalist forces inside this country. This
is history. We're not embellishing. The president knows what's going on. He's involved. He's
listening directly to you. Thank God for DrudgeReport.com, helping punch info wars through directly
to the president. I know the president's gotten my reports and my information directly repeated
and I'll leave it at that and Drudge gets it directly to him. You all get it directly to him
and now he's talking about the shadow banning, the censorship, everything. One reason I came in
here, Owen, is because I never plug in this second segment and we're going to win against
these Soros funded lawsuits and the rest of this garbage because we've told the truth and what the
media puts out is fraud. But I'm going to tell the listeners again right now, you know this is
history. You know info wars is paying off for your children's future, for your liberty, for your
second amendment, for your religious freedom. You know we're the Americans just like you. You
know we're on the front line. So we need your financial supported info wars store.com on this
Friday like never before to commit to go sign up for auto ship for any of the great supplements,
the great coffee, things you're going to want to reorder, get a t-shirt, get a book, whatever.
I know you've been doing it, but I want to thank you now for recommitting because we will defeat
the enemy if you increase the amount of funds coming in here. In fact, if just a few percentage
of you more start purchasing products, we can basically unless they kill me are unstoppable.
And I've already got plans to set up all sorts of other emergency backup systems. In fact,
some of them are already in place that are even outside of my control. I'm going to leave it and
I'm working with world leaders. And I don't want to brag about this, but I'm working with world
leaders, world leaders, not just the president. I mean directly with household names in Europe
to do some major stuff. Okay, that's why they're coming after me. They've got my phones tapped.
They know what we're doing. We're really making a run at the enemy. So I don't want to ever brag
about stuff because that would draw the enemy in to know they know now. Okay, they know we're
planning to take the whole damn planet back. Okay, we're against the eugenicist. We want a pro-human
future. We are Renaissance individuals and we are going to go till the end, no matter what they do,
but they're coming after us because we are the opposite of George Soros. You understand?
But I need massive funding to launch operations that they've held us back six months on.
The enemy has successfully stopped us here
on the front. We need to move forward with a major offensive and I need capital flooding
infowarstore.com. Now I'm going to judge it this weekend off of what happens today,
how much I'm going to expand to face the enemy. You want us to fight hard? Do it now.
infowarstore.com. Get products you need and products that will fund a savage defense of human
freedom and an offense against the globalist with information warfare. God bless you all.
I'm going to throw you straight ahead. Let's talk tough. Let's talk comfort. Let's talk about
down home value made in the USA blue jeans like you wore as a kid. Remember, there's a place down
in Tennessee where they make blue diamond gusset jeans. They so pride in every stitch
guarantee you love the way they fit. Put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most.
Blue diamond gussets got it. Others don't. For good old fashioned comfort, get diamond gusset
jeans. Every stitch guaranteed and our defender motorcycle gene comes Kevlar reinforced. See
him at G. U. S. S. E. T. Dot com. That's gusset.com or call 888-848-7738. That's 888-848-7738.
Diamond gusset jeans got it. Others don't. Healthcare reform is confusing. But whether
it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed
prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge. Control your own healthcare
costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association
of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical
needs. Neighbor helping neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
It's a no brainer. A big burky water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Burky. And now GCN listeners
receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Burky or
BigBurkyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective. It is
not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the
activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses
in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack
of our pollen block chewable tablets. The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen,
our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus. The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new
version of the Powerhouse pregnant on product. It features the same great formula that supports
your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the Real Red Pill, it could become one of our
fellow infowars' favorite products. Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside,
including green tea extract, your Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick
me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. Got all the great stuff that Real
Red Pill has? It's also got the most in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstore.com.
From the infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show,
and now your host, Owen Shroyer. All right, ladies and gentlemen,
this is a big broadcast for multiple reasons. Tons of big news to cover. President Trump is
hitting the fake news harder than he ever has before. You should have heard his speech last night
in Evansville, Indiana. President Trump is hitting the tech giants harder than ever before,
saying that they are skating on thin ice. They're flirting with anti-trust law violations, and
they're not going to censor free speech in this country. But that's not stopping them, is it?
No, it's not. No, it's not. In fact, they keep doing it. In fact, I'm working on getting guests
all lined up. I can't even believe it, man. New people are telling me they're getting blocked
every day. Every day. You get people getting blocked for sharing FDA.gov documents talking about
vaccines. They get blocked for sharing actual government documents. Will Johnson got blocked
off Facebook. He's coming on at 12.30. You won't believe why. Fulcrum News. David Seaman. They're
banished. They're gone. The list just goes on and on and on. Of course, Alex Jones, myself,
David Knight, Roger Stone, Milo Yiannopoulos, and on and on, and Diamond and Silk, and Ron DeSantis,
and Devin Nunes, and Jim Jordan. And it just goes on and on and on. But you've got death threats
to Trump every day. I get threats every day. Roger Stone gets threats. Alex Jones gets threats.
I mean, we get threats. We don't even cover it. Paul Joseph Watson. I don't even cover it. But
they're allowed to exist. I covered yesterday the ACLU attorney certified by Twitter says,
you know, F white people. White people are bad. Yeah, that doesn't violate Twitter's terms of
service. Oh, but if a white conservative said black people were bad, yeah, kicked them off immediately.
Again, it's a double standard. And they say, oh, it's hate speech. This is not about hate speech,
folks. This is 110% about political speech. This is 110% about trying to move the Overton window.
Confirm their false consensus that there's a blue wave coming and everybody hates Trump.
And it couldn't be more opposite the reality of the situation.
No, Trump is probably the most popular president ever.
Yeah. No, the blue wave is not even a splash.
And so they don't want you to know what's actually going on.
This is from the Hill. Trump says to Google Facebook, Amazon, they may be in a very
possible antitrust situation. Oh, oh, they are.
Trump has even said it's illegal, folks. They're playing chicken with Trump. Do you understand
how everything comes down to these midterms in 67 days? See, the tech giants think they can get away
with this because they're actually getting high on their own extra. I mean, I'm sorry to give you a
kind of disgusting analogy here, but they're literally getting high off of their own feces,
folks. They're they're they're crapping in their own hands and getting high off the fumes.
They really think a blue wave is coming. So they're doubling down on the censorship,
and then they think that when the blue wave comes, they'll impeach Trump, and they won't be
under threat anymore of looking at antitrust lawsuit violations.
But guess what? The blue wave is not coming. Hillary didn't get elected. You're all high
off the fumes of your own crap. So double down on the censorship, double down on your belief that
there's a blue wave coming and watch the red wave drown you. That's what's going to happen,
and Trump is going to hit you with every antitrust lawsuit in the books if you don't cut this out
before the midterms, which you're still going to lose. They don't get it, folks. They already rigged.
They rigged the 2016 presidential elections. Do you understand this? They already censored
conservatives on social media. They were already censoring Alex Jones. They just didn't delete
him. So even though they already rigged social media, they already rigged the elections in
2016, they still lost. And so now they're doubling down. They're doubling down on the fake news.
They're doubling down on the censorship on social media, and it's not going to work. You know what
happens when you double zero? You still get zero. Zero. So that's why we have to get out and be
informed and vote in the midterms in 67 days to make sure the Democrats don't take back the house.
It doesn't look like they have very good odds to take back the Senate, but they do believe they can
take back the house. I don't think so. But if they do, they will try to remove Trump, and they'll try
to do everything they can to try to end America as we know it. But I don't see that coming.
In fact, I see the opposite coming. And I think that once November comes and they lose in the
midterms, it's game on. Trump is already slow. See, Trump is kind of sitting there in the ring,
just kind of unwrapping his hands, taking the gloves off like, you sure you want to keep
censoring, huh? Yeah, I saw you were censoring Mike Pence there. I saw you were censoring Will
Johnson. I saw you guys totally removed Alex Jones. So Trump's just taking the gloves off,
removing his tape, saying, oh yeah, notice you guys were censoring me on Twitter. Oh yeah,
noticed you guys were throttling back my live views on YouTube and Facebook. You guys sure
you want to keep doing that, huh? Amazon, Google, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube. Boy, I think you guys
are guilty of some campaign finance. You guys want to keep doing that? And they're just watching
Trump remove the gloves and they think it's some sort of joke or they're going to have him removed.
And so he's removing the gloves, he's taking his time and the midterms are coming up.
And then everything comes down to the midterms. And then that becomes the flash point.
And everything that follows is a result of what you see here.
So that's what's all going on. And in the meantime, Roger Stone coming up in the next segment,
he says he expects to be charged with the crime next in this Mueller campaign. Of course,
that comes from NBC News. That could be total fake news. They could be taking Roger out of context
or just making that up. But it is linked on Drudge and we're going to be hearing from Roger Stone
in the next segment. But just look at how ridiculous they are. Yeah, yeah. Oh, by the way,
that same NBC News that printed that story that we'll see if it's fake news or not when Roger
Stone joins me in the next segment. They're leading the front of Drudge right now because
it's now come out that NBC News censored the Me Too movement. That's right. Ronan Farrow,
who was really the journalist that kind of broke all of this open, they censored Ronan Farrow's
Me Too reports. Of course, wasn't it NBC News that had Matt the Rat Lauer? That was NBC News,
right? I can't remember if it's NBC or CBS. They're like one and the same. But the point is,
NBC threatened Ronan Farrow if he kept reporting on Harvey Weinstein. Why is Harvey Weinstein
protected? All of the disgusting treatment towards women that Harvey Weinstein has engaged in,
but NBC and the globalists and the deep state are rushing to his defense. Why is that? Oh,
why is that? Because he's friends with the Clintons. Because he's a Democrat donor to the tunes of
millions of dollars over time. That's why they're protecting Harvey Weinstein. Don't you get it?
You're allowed to rape women, assault women, abuse women, take advantage of women, insult women.
You can do anything you want as long as you're a good liberal. You can do anything you want
under the sun as long as at the end of the day you hate America and you're a good liberal. You
can get away with anything. Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature,
expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbows
on the market at Slingbow.com. Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones
the excitement and tradition of Slingbow, a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on
this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com. I'm David Hall, founder of
Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and stoned American made jeans. Whether
you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full
spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion. To find yours, visit Gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T
.com. Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one
you're listening to. In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company. I want to plow
into all of this. Then I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to
understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other
material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clear.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I want to thank
everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and
with high quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the
best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9. And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile
armies. And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are. And they're coming back against
it, so we need your support. We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together
with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us
through Mother Nature to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic
Metal and Chemical Defense Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from
nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you
can possibly get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of
this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and your prayers together,
we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield and infowarslife.com.
We knew it was coming. The whole thing was for me leg. First demonize info wars, lie about us,
build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube
and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia. And then voila,
two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in
the top five or top 10 news feeds. Go to infowars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast,
just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that
we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform. But
whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, forward slash show, how they can download the free
Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out
this is the verboten info. This is what they don't want you to see.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now take you live to the central Texas commenced every and the heart of the resistance.
And now your host, Olin Troyer.
And if you were in Evansville, Indiana last night, the home of the aces, you heard thunder.
Tens of thousands of people filling arenas, chanting USA, lock her up and other such
patriotic hymns as President Trump begins his campaign tour to help save America during the
midterm elections and then again in the 2020 presidential election. Now, Roger Stone, my
cohost on the war room from three to six p.m. weekdays at infowarsshow.com joins me next.
And it's the same story, but they refresh it to try to continue the narrative that that Roger
Stone is doomed or guilty, even though he is guilty of no such violations that they're trying to
attach to him. So the NBC news story that's linked on Drudge says Trump pal Stone says he expects
Mueller to charge him with a crime. But I want Roger to clarify this and to explain exactly
where his head's at and the fake news that's out there about him. So Roger, thanks for joining us.
I'm great to be here, Owen. You know, there's nothing new in this story. There's nothing that
I haven't said right here at infowars, literally four months. When 12 of my current or former
associates have been dragged in front of FBI interrogation, when at least four and perhaps
more of my associates have testified for the grand jury, it's not unreasonable to expect
that Mueller is up to something. But to be categorically clear, he has no evidence of
Russian collusion. He has no evidence of collaboration of any kind with WikiLeaks. I never
received allegedly hacked emails and passed them on to Donald Trump. That's a MSNBC, R.E. Melbour
fairy tale. No evidence that I knew about the acquisition or publication of John Podesta's
emails in advance. That's a falsehood as well. But we know, as Alan Dershowitz has said, the
average American inadvertently commits four felonies a day and that a runaway federal prosecutor
with unfettered power and literally no oversight and no rules can literally indict a ham sandwich.
So when I go out and I prepare based on their terrorizing my many friends and associates,
by the way, asking virtually every one of them about Alex Jones and infowars, what am I supposed
to expect? I can tell you right now what my crime is, Owen. I figured it out. I'm guilty
of supporting Donald Trump for president, of defeating Hillary Clinton. Those are my only
crimes and I've had no choice but to prepare. I've already spent over a half million dollars
on legal fees beating back these harassment lawsuits by the DNC and Obama directed left-wing
front group. They seek to destroy me financially. They want to ruin me so I can't fight back.
That's why I had to set up a legal defense fund at stonedefensefund.com.
They'd like to make it hard for me to raise money, but I continue to soldier onward.
Well, and as you said, Robert Mueller has no oversight. I mean, he's totally out of control.
He's a rogue prosecutor. He's above the government operating above everything right now. And just
to clarify, so people understand, all of Donald Trump's past associates who also happen to be,
well, not all, but many of Trump's past associates, many of which happen to be Roger Stone associates,
too, are all being looked at. They're all being investigated. They're looking at their emails.
They're trying to bring them in. So one can only reason to believe that Roger Stone is next up.
But interestingly enough, and I don't know how much you want to put into this, Roger, but Rudy
Giuliani is putting together a counter report to question Robert Mueller's legitimacy. I don't
know if you trust Rudy Giuliani in this matter or not, or if you think this is the right thing to
start doing. But to me, if there's going to be no oversight on Mueller, well, maybe we should just
launch an investigation on Mueller then. I mean, maybe that's the answer. Look, I am a, I'm a big
supporter of Rudy Giuliani. Rudy Giuliani is a wartime conciliary. He is head in the shoulders
above the attorneys who represented the president previously, who were lulled into a false sense
of security when Robert Mueller assured them if they just turned over everything voluntarily,
this matter would be resolved last year. Obviously, Mueller lied. Now, the time for reports is past.
It's a time for action. In all honesty, Mueller has every intention of subpoenaing the president if
he needs to to try to trap him in some kind of obstruction of justice or perjury or some other
process crime. The courts have held that Mueller's appointment is constitutional because he has the
oversight of two officials, one elected and one appointed by an elected official. Those would be
Donald Trump and acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The problem with that is, Owen, both
Trump and Rosenstein are at a minimum witnesses or more specifically deeply involved in the facts
regarding the very matter that Mueller is investigating, including the Comey firing where
Rosenstein wrote the underlying memo telling Trump how and why Comey should be fired and freaked out
when that memo became public and his deep state buddy found out that Rosenstein was a weasel who
was double dealing him. And then, of course, it was Rosenstein who signed the extension of the
phony Faisal warrants that were both illegal and unconstitutional. And the president is clearly
a target. So somebody who is a target and somebody who should be a target, but at minimum our witnesses
cannot have oversight in the case at hand. Therefore, Mueller's investigation is hopelessly
compromised. Don't issue reports, Rudy. Don't study fire. Fire, Mueller, fire Rosenstein,
fire Jeff Sessions. That would be a pleasure. And clean house at your justice department.
This is a speeding bullet heading directly for the president's head. Stop talking about,
I might get involved, I should get involved, get involved today. That would be my advice. Now,
some would say, well, that advice is self serving. But Owen, it's the Trump presidency that is at
stake. And now that we know that Bruce Orr, the Justice Department official under Obama,
was briefing Andrew Weisman, the hit man, the pit bull for Robert Mueller, the conflict of
interest is abundantly clear. Mr. Mueller and Mr. Weisman, it's time to go. Well, if you look at
the, let's say, evolution of this Mueller probe, I think its original intentions, which were to
destroy Donald Trump in the public eye, in the media, acting like this Mueller probe is legit.
You know, maybe even using the Mueller probe to remove Trump or some of his officials or,
but again, to me, the whole thing was to just have this aura over Trump in the media and with
the Mueller probe that he's bad, he's guilty of whatever. To me, that was the original intent.
But now, Roger, I think it's evolved into new levels because of all their involvement with
the illegal spine. You know, it's one thing for these government officials to get away with all
the illegal activity they did during the Obama years. I think that they felt comfortable in
all of their illegality. But now that Trump is president and he's called it out and now they've
all been exposed, I think the Mueller probe has reached new levels. Now they're trying to protect
their own hide, perhaps from major jail time here because of all the crimes they committed under
the Obama administration that he either ordered them to commit or turn the other head at. So to
me, the Mueller probe has gone from an offensive to get Donald Trump to now a defensive, oh boy,
I hope Donald Trump doesn't get us. Well, you're absolutely right. I think it becomes abundantly
clear that the whole rushing collusion investigation is meant to divert us from the extraordinary
crimes in violation of the Constitution, the spying and manipulation of the election process by the
Obama FBI and the Obama Justice Department, and the deep crimes of Mr. Mueller himself, 9-1-1,
BCCI, the Interacts, and so on, those on and on. So you're absolutely right. These people realize
that if they don't put Donald Trump in jail, that they themselves are going to end up in jail. And
that's the real issue. And I think that right now we're looking at a situation and Trump feels like
I mean, folks, if the average American that's that's that's got their head and Kim Kardashian's
boobs and Tom Brady's butt, if the average American knew what was going on in this country,
they really would panic. I mean, that I think that there's a level of this where Trump just
doesn't want to send the average American into a panic because they're so ignorant.
But fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily
digestive pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance
and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you
receive. There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with
20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore,
our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and
your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep
your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better
time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on
the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily digestive pack today.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean. As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula,
just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins. With powerful,
yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for a powerful cleansing
alternative. With super blue silver immune gargle, staying toxin free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle,
only available at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
Great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine
boost included. A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the Real Red Pill, will quickly become one of our
fellow InfoWars favorite products. Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside,
including 3D extract, your Ramadei leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up
while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way. Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill
has, it's also got the most in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstores.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered
with even better ingredients. Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarslife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of
ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals. This incredible chicken bone broth
formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body. It's time to experience what ultimate
bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today
at infowarsstores.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic, it's Alex Jones.
And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
Roger Stone. If you're following the news, you know that special counsel Robert Mueller has me
in his crosshairs. At least eight of my current or former associates have been interrogated by the
FBI. At least four of them have been dragged before the grand jury. But Mr. Mueller has no
evidence of rushing collusion, WikiLeaks collaboration or any advanced knowledge of the
acquisition and release of John Podesta's emails. Instead, he seeks to silence me and to turn me
against the president, as he did Michael Cohn. I have no intention of flipping on Donald Trump,
but I face financial ruin and bankruptcy for my family in this epic fight. Please,
I'm really the fight, but I need to know that you have my back. Go to StoneDefenseFund.com.
I need your help.
That's Roger Stone, my co-host on the war room from 3 to 6 p.m. Central Weekdays at
infowords.com. We are here filling in four Alex Jones on the Alex Jones show. And of course,
you've got Roger Stone right now under the microscope with this Mueller investigation
because of his great crime of supporting Donald Trump and being a patriot and loving America.
That is Roger Stone's biggest crime is being a good American patriot. But while there's one
form of trash that looks like Robert Mueller, there's another form of trash that takes the
shape of a quote-unquote journalist that works for the Wall Street Journal named Shelby Holiday.
This is not one of Roger Stone's favorite journalists. She also goes on TV and spouts
her fake news. Roger, would you like to address the latest garbage coming out of Shelby Holiday?
Yeah, I'm afraid I have to. You know, when I've been in American politics for 40 years,
I've worked for four American presidents. I've had dealings with literally hundreds of mainstream
media reporters. There are many that I have real respect for. There are many who I believe are
just honest men and women trying to do their job, trying to get the facts straight and report them.
And then there Shelby Holiday, the single most odious, duplicitous, dishonest, and self-absorbed
reporter in the mainstream media. Now, Shelby Holiday reached out to a veteran reporter for
the National Enquirer claiming that I was the source of the National Enquirer's story regarding
Ben Carson and some medical malpractice issues, or Ted Cruz and his string of girlfriends,
when in fact I was the source of neither one of those stories. But when Shelby Holiday was told
by this veteran reporter that she didn't want to talk and she hung up, Holiday called her back.
And then when she hung up again, she called her back again. But when they finally spoke,
Shelby Holiday spoke over the reporter when she attempted to deny what Shelby Holiday had already
decided were the facts. This woman is a blight upon the earth. She's a piece of human garbage.
But above all, she is not in any way a journalist or a reporter. She's up there with Brian Stelzer,
one of your real favorites, Owen. She's in that league when it comes to lies and disinformation.
There she is, folks. Shelby Holiday, the epitome of fake news. Brian Stelzer doesn't appreciate that,
Roger. But I've got a little Shelby Holiday article right here from the Wall Street Journal.
You know what we do to fake news, Roger? What do we do to fake news? We rip it.
Yes, indeed. This one's for you, Shelby.
Fake news, not a journalist. Crime back in your hole. Stop harassing reporters who are
far better journalists than you are. We're here at the Alex Jones show and we're laying it out.
Next Monday on The War Room, Owen and I are going to expose the five worst journalists in the
mainstream media. That's right. And it's a heavy competition to pick the five worst. I think we've
already identified two. One would be Shelby Holiday. The other one would be Brian Stelzer.
But who will vie for those highly coveted other three positions as the worst mainstream media
journalist in America? Tune into The War Room on Monday at five o'clock Eastern to find out
who wins these coveted awards. Wow. I'm just racking my brain right now, Roger. That's going
to be a tough one. And again, just to clarify, actually, this Monday is Labor Day. So it'll be
Tuesday. Tune in Tuesday. Yeah, that's right. Roger doesn't take holidays. So he doesn't think
about holidays. He's always working. But man, I mean, fake is people in news. Shelby Holiday.
You know, Roger, and I'll just say this, I mean, I know that that I can be really aggressive and
loud. And you could even say maybe I have an ego or all this stuff. But you know, the one thing
that I try not to be that people like Shelby Holiday and a lot of these other journalists are
is an arrogant snob. You know, I never want to come off as an arrogant snob. And if I ever do,
I hope that someone would tell me. But to me, when I see Shelby Holiday on TV, it's just an
arrogant snob. I know I'm the only one that knows nobody else knows anything except me.
That's what I get from people like Shelby Holiday. And it's just like, no, I want to remind you of
this. When I when I was accused of dining with Julian Assange, which I had said in an email to
Sam Nunberg, the psychopath who worked for Donald Trump to get to get him to stop calling me.
And then I produced the airline tickets, the hotel receipt, the restaurant receipts that
showed I was in Los Angeles on the days that Shelby Holiday said I was dining with Assange.
Holiday actually said on MSNBC, well, maybe his dinner with Assange was over Skype.
Really? You're a journalist? Climb back in your hole, Shelby. You are a disgrace to the profession
of journalism. That idea is so laughably ridiculous that you only embarrass yourself.
Boy, when you when you're when you're in the same classification of fake news with a Brian
Stelter and a Don Lemon, which is where Shelby Holiday lands herself now. That's a tough hole
to climb out of. All right, Roger, I've got another subject I want to discuss with you before you
depart with us here. And that is the John McCain saga. Now, I'm not asking you to get into your
opinions on McCain or anything, you know, let the dead rest. But I will ask you this.
Because I'm a little confused by this. I have never seen ever, ever anyone's death covered
like John McCain's. He has been his services have extended for 72. He's got 72 hours worth of
services. He's flying around on like Air Force One jets. He's got like 10 different ceremonies.
They're all publicly on television. It's all McCain's the hero, everything about McCain.
What I'm sorry, have you ever seen a national coverage of a dead senator like this? I mean,
I remember Reagan dying. I remember there's been other people that died. There wasn't five days
worth of TV events. There wasn't 10 different ceremonies and everything celebrating their
life and times. How is it John McCain gets this great coverage? Eight years ago, he was the enemy
of the liberal media. And now all of a sudden they love him. I mean, have you ever seen anything
like this, Roger? Yeah, you know, even Ronald Reagan, who's probably the greatest president
of my lifetime, his funeral and death did not merit this kind of phone.
It got 24 hours. Ronald, I remember it. Reagan's death got 24 hours and the ceremonies and they
moved on. Yeah, so this is easy to explain. McCain is a man who moved from the right to the left.
And therefore they hated him when he was a conservative. But now that he's a liberal and
undermining Donald Trump, they have to deify him. Look, my opinion of John McCain is well known.
The fact that he partied with the Russian oligarch Daripaska and a group of young Russian
prostitutes for his 70th anniversary on Daripaska's yacht, despite the fact that as John Salomon
has reported at the Hill, the FBI warned McCain that Daripaska was an agent for Putin,
but he met with him anyway. But now is not the time. I'm not going to step into this breach
because our critics want to accuse us of speaking ill of the dead. So I wish him Godspeed.
May he rest in peace. The day to dissect his transgressions in politics and in government
is on another day. But I think most Americans see through this fronting coverage in which people
who hated John McCain's guts when he was in public office step forward and talk about what a great
man he was. Well, and again, you know, I won't go into our opinions on John McCain. We'll let
your comments lie there and we'll move on. But again, I'll just say this. The coverage that
McCain's death is getting is unprecedented to anything I've ever seen. He was even bigger
than Michael Jackson's death, which was a huge TV event. And it's like, since when is John McCain
some media darling? He used to be most one of the most hated men in media. And it's just incredible
to me that this is going on. And you know, it's also it's like when he was in charge of that
committee for releasing the prisoner of war records from Vietnam, you know what he did?
He didn't release them. He snuffed them. He threw them in the trash because he didn't want people
to know about his own history. But you know what? I digress. John McCain may he rest.
Final words from Roger Stone. 30 seconds. Take us to break, Roger. This is really simple, folks.
We are fighting a war against censorship like you've never seen and we need your support at
the info wars.com store right now. We're not blowing smoke. We're not crying wolf. This is an
effort to strangle our First Amendment rights. The single best way you can fight back is by
going to the info wars.com store and picking up one of our terrific nutraceuticals or products
today. Thank you and God bless you. Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival
Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard
seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce
thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate
thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your
body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com. As the years go by it gets harder and harder to
keep up with your body's nutritional needs. With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals
needed daily. That's why infowarslife created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique
delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins,
minerals, amino acids and more. Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural
and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Infowars.com is tomorrow's news today and now your host Owen Troyer.
You know, anybody who knows me knows that I monitor and follow news like a fiend.
Maybe I am a news fiend. So I'm just a little perturbed honestly. I'm just a little perturbed
as to why John McCain's death has been the main story on television news now for four days.
So the day he died it was the biggest story and then the day after he died it was about how he was
he was dividing America from the grave insulting Trump from the grave and then the two days after
that it's been all John McCain ceremonies and funerals he's flying around on big bowing jumbo
jets having his casket moved he gets to have an American flag over his casket even though he's
responsible for thousands of Americans dying I mean it's all just absurd to me you know what
I don't even know if I can do this guys I was going to come on here and do a troll
basically like praising John McCain for all his war crimes but it's really just so sick I really
can't even joke about it to be honest with you yeah let me joke about how John McCain you know
the story goes he did his wet start on the USS Forester I think he damaged like seven of the
the jet aircraft that was on the deck he may have even killed or wounded many of his uh
fellow fellow military men I mean it just it it's really just sick and they say oh well
don't you know he was a prisoner of war well now wait a second don't you know that it was
John McCain who censored and deleted and trashed when the Vietnamese were going to send over the
prisoner of war records so that the other American soldiers families that had prisoners of wars uh
prisoners of war over in Vietnam could find out the truth about what happened to their family members
what happened to them what their fate was if they died if they were tortured everything
you know who stopped the families from getting those reports John McCain do you know why because
John McCain's time as a prisoner of war is not what you think it is see so I can't even do it I
can't even do the troll guys I'm sorry I can't even do it so as I would just need a I would just
need a bullet a bullet point list I can't just read these stories here but here's what I'll say
I think that I think that America seeing John McCain as a turncoat against Trump
the leader of the democrat party with an R behind his name really woke people up to who John McCain
was a fraud then after that level of illusion was removed people started to peel through the layers
and they find out wait a second this John McCain who were claiming was a war hero maybe not so much
actually was very very dangerous when he was a pilot flying jets responsible for multiple
crashes many deaths of his comrades then you find out when he was a prisoner of war he received
special treatment in fact you can even go listen to his audio the vietnamese recorded John McCain
on tape when he was a prisoner of war praising the vietnamese thanking them telling you how great
they were do you know what the other prisoner prisoners of war do you know what happened to
them no he shouldn't be in heaven you guys should have flames behind him let's get a flaming graphic
behind McCain do you know when John McCain the vietnamese said John tell the american people
how great we are he did it he said the vietnamese are great people they're treating me great you can
read it's it's it's even recorded the transcripts are out the audio is out do you know what happened
to the other prisoner of prisoners of war that they did that too they spit in their face they said
I'm not going to tell you you're great America is great I'm loyal to America they died McCain said
screw America I love Vietnam he lived he got special treatment and then he erased the records
of the prisoners of war so that you wouldn't know the truth about him but guess what John we do
know the truth about you your own audio that you tapes praising the vietnamese leaked and then you
erased the records so no the people are sick of John McCain's funeral it's not a three-day funeral
end it already do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com when you spread the
videos you are changing the world it's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist it is you
the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer
pressure that stood against the threats that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on
the team supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of
their intensifying censorship it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars.com forward
slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical
videos articles breaking news intel you name it and so now I asked you more than ever to share the
info wars.com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward slash
newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning
waging war on corruption you're listening to the alex jones show and now your host owin shroyer
fight stage is setting out pay the price it's an eco post don't think twice technology the battles
unfair you pull the hammer without a care squeeze the trigger that makes you plan to go
please john mccain i'm so sorry you are an american hero you're not guilty of any war crimes no americans
died during your service time no john mccain is the hero we should do a whole month dedicated to
john mccain i don't want the john mccain funeral ceremonies to ever stop in fact you know what
let's make john mccain the president from the grave that's it let's let's impeach trump and john mccain
should be the president yes let's make john mccain please please john mccain save us from trump
please john mccain please we need more war crimes we need more americans dead we need more pilots
westarting their jets and causing fires on naval ships please john mccain forgive me forgive me
john mccain don't spite me from the grave you're a war hero i want a whole month of funeral ceremonies
for john mccain i want trump out i want mccain in he should have been obama i can't believe i would
ever insult that man wow i'm a bad guy i would dare i would dare tell you the truth about john mccain
what what a jerk i am to tell you the truth about john mccain he's a hero don't you know
all the men that died because of john mccain he's a hero you know what i don't have the news on
in front of me is is john mccain service still on the news guys are they still celebrating the
life and times john mccain for the 72nd hour straight yes oh another day where john mccain
gets to rest with an american flag over his coffin i'm sorry i'm sorry i would ever insult john mccain
i should have never insulted him his service record is immaculate
john mccain never crash landed any jets john mccain never burn any jets on a naval a naval craft
no john mccain didn't erase the records of the prisoners of war at vietnam in vietnam so you
couldn't see how he was treated and he was a total trader john mccain didn't stab america in the back
by lying about president trump no no no no john mccain's a hero it's the third straight day of
john mccain ceremonies on tv let's do it for another month let's dedicate the entire month of
september to john mccain oh there's the wonderful moment when john mccain wet started his jet and
blew up the uss forest all great work john yeah look at that beautiful footage there's john mccain
fire bombing a uss carrier ship he didn't do that to the vietnamese you know what happened when he
flew over the vietnamese he crashed he couldn't even do anything and then oh my gosh my arm my leg
because you crashed your jet so there it is there's john mccain blowing up the uss forest
all americans died he is a hero let's get the ceremonies go come on show me fox news baby show
me fox news we love john mccain yes i need more john mccain ceremonies they've only been on tv for
three straight days what a joke but you know what in all seriousness okay in all seriousness guys
i think that this tv coverage of john mccain and the forced praise of john mccain and the forcing of
john mccain going down in history as an american hero and a patriot i think that's actually going
to turn america off i think the third straight day of the mccain funeral ceremonies is going to make
americans say okay you know what f this guy still haunting this country from the grave
can't he just go away unbelievable all right let's refresh guys let's take it down i think
i've said my piece i can't take any more another mccain funeral today oh you know who mccain was
was really close with who said just the nicest things about mccain on on television in the last
few days david portray us oh oh is that chuckie schumer chuckie you know what you know what
we have to say it i'm not mad at i'm not mad at these people for going through the ceremonies
and doing the whole fake thing for john mccain i get it i get it but you know what
this is why info wars exist folks because we have to we have to tell you the unpleasant truths
we have to take you into the the discomfort zones so so if so i so we'll report it i'll
report the truth about mccain unabashedly and i won't regret it because no one else will
know john mccain did not deserve these ceremonies by my by my measurement in fact i'll even go to
the full extreme i don't believe john mccain deserved to have the american flag on his coffin
yeah yeah no it's fine i'll be the one to say it it's all right it's okay we'll be the ones to
say it no one else will say it i get it let the dead rest well what about all the dead people
because of mccain what about mccain meeting with isis in syria you know what i almost want to
believe the q theory that john mccain received the death penalty for treason if you believe the q
conspiracy theories that's what q says i almost want to believe that because it probably is what
should have happened i see i shouldn't even it's just it's just why why are they forcing mccain down
our throat as his hero they hated mccain when he ran again this is what i'm saying do you not remember
when mccain ran against obama if mccain was such a hero if mccain was this media darling if mccain
was this american legend this patriot legend how come he couldn't beat obama how come the media
attacked him for eight straight years how come he didn't invite mccain to his funeral how come he
didn't invite trump to his funeral why is he such a stumbad why did he erase the records
of the prisoner of wars in vietnam why is he wet starting his jet on the uss forest hall because
he's daddy's boy all right you know what i'm gonna try to drop it let's just let's just drop mccain
because i'm just gonna keep getting angry because you know what i don't like being lied to i don't
like putting putting things down in history that aren't true and i am living right now and they're
trying to tell us john mccain is an american hero no he's not okay and i'm sorry that no one else
is gonna say that to you they're all gonna play the mccain ceremonies for three freaking days
and act like he's some sort of american hero when that son of a bitch stabbed this country in the
back from the very grave no you know what no i get it now i get it now i get it obama
funds the iranian government that hates america and and says that we should all die
he's a hero hillary clinton sells us out to the chinese helps start isis she's a hero
john mccain goes to syria meets with the syrian rebels make sure they're getting the arms
make sure that they can fight the syrian government and remove aside from power
yeah he's a hero no i get it now i get it i get it to be a hero in america you have to hate america
if you want to be a hero in america you have to betray the country you have to support radical
islam you have to hate the president that that's what it takes to be a hero in america and as long
as you do that we're going to have an entire week of ceremonies after you die and we're going to
cement you in history as an american hero when you were a total traitor there you go there it
is john mccain meeting with isis in syria folks in syria and you know what i have no fear and i
have no shame in coming out here and bashing john mccain and i don't care i'm not going to be a
coward because all the other media wants to tell you this about john mccain and then say oh my gosh
oh my gosh how dare he say that about john mccain now you know what how dare john mccain meet with
isis how dare john mccain bury the prisoner of war records to protect his own hide not how dare me
for being honest if you like alkaline water or know someone that does you're going to love the
dylan living water bottle it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste
and saving you money made with surgical grade stainless steel the dylan bottle increases the
ph up to nine to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it alkaline
water is healthier tastes better and can even boost energy the dylan bottle makes it easy and
affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration get your dylan bottle today at dyln.co
that's dyln.co bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration required
proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the leanest thickest
center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve
savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use order today at ready to eat bacon.com
ready to eat bacon.com when you use public wi-fi hackers and identity thieves can see
anything you do online embarrassing photos your web history even your passwords that's why i use
private internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day sign up
now at private internet access dot com and in just a few minutes you'll be browsing anonymously and
only sharing what you want to share private internet access dot com it's time to protect your online
privacy you've heard the phrase you are what you eat not true actually you are what you can absorb
so if the vitamins and supplements you now take are not being absorbed what good are they
introducing protovite proprietary liquid system that allows premium quality nutrients to positively
affect the blood in an astonishing five minutes watch our amazing two-minute live blood cell video
at true health facts dot com that's true health facts dot com then call 502-410-3411
protovite is nutrition you can feel protovite is nutrition that gets in
years ago info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you combat internal
yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team knew we had
to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health micro zx plus is the
result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's
natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms there's no better product to help your body
fight back micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes on chat powered by
an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract poudarko bark and grape seed
extract our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing
properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved micro zx plus today at info wars life dot com
that's info wars life dot com we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health
issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every
faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide clean
water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system is an
advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install and maintain
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your
family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this one filter for clean and
refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store dot com and whether it's your first
water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time
to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today
you're listening to the alex jones show
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the alex jones show and now your host owin shroyer
ladies and gentlemen there's good news and there's bad news and you're well aware of it all
the bad news is that right now the tech giants in silicon valley are doing everything they can to
try to censor the truth and you know we keep saying censor free speech and that's kind of a
buzzword free speech you know first amendment but i think we need to change our messaging
because it doesn't really hit home enough and i think it's kind of become a numbing effect oh
censor free speech censor free speech first amendment first amendment it doesn't really
have the power that it used to have where i think if we change our messaging and we say the tech
giants in silicon valley are trying to censor the truth because that's ultimately what's going on
they are making it impossible for you to red pill people on the internet they don't want people
being red pilled on the internet because look what happens changes the world that's what happened
in the last four years on the internet red pills galore and it changed the course of human history
so now they have to put in a internet beta blocker to make sure no red pills are able to make it out
on the internet of course alex jones the ultimate red pill depository ban and so that's where we're
at but the good news the good news is that we have infowarstore.com and we have an audience
that supports us at infowarstore.com and that's good news for us and that's good news for the truth
and that's good news for free speech and the good news for you is that the products at infowarstore.com
are the real deal and i've got a lot of the products just laid out for me right here on the desk this
is probably maybe 15 percent of our supplements that i have here before me maybe maybe less than that
so this is just a brief introduction of the supplements that we have at infowarstore.com
the ultimate bone broth formula very popular this is a supplement craze bone broth that is really
hitting the physical fitness industry right now and because of that you've got a lot of new bone broth
supplements being offered out there but i'm telling you from my own shopping experience
a with the regular price of the bone broth the ultimate bone broth of infowarstore.com the regular
price at $39.95 is already the best price out there that you're going to find for a bone broth
formula that is so powerful but we didn't stop there we cut it in half this is absurd so now
it's $19.95 for the ultimate bone broth formula that's 50% off limited time offer ladies and
gentlemen i am telling you i am telling you any bone broth formula that you think can compete with
this as far as the ingredients are concerned is going to cost you $50 minimum minimum
$50 minimum for a bone broth formula that you could maybe compare this to ingredient wise
it's $19.95 at infowarstore.com so you can get two get two of the ultimate bone broth
get two of them at infowarstore.com or get 155 of them the point is you're not going to find a
better deal and that's the case with most of the products at infowarstore.com and thanks to
your support at infowarstore.com we make it all possible and i just have to say as somebody
who who works here at info wars it's you know i can't thank not just the audience
for for supporting us so much but but alex jones for having the foresight to understand that
eventually this censorship was going to come he had to go independent to fund himself and that's
what he did and that's why we created infowarstore.com so go to infowarstore.com check out all the great
supplements and see for yourself why they get five star reviews see why ultimate bone broth gets
five star reviews see why the bodies gets five star reviews see why people say that survival
shield x2 nascent iodine is a life changing supplement check it out for yourself bodies
50 off at infowarstore.com so it's all at infowarstore.com and it makes everything we do here possible
and it makes it possible for us to beat the censorship which i want to get to now and guys we
need to clip this out and put it up separately let's quickly roll to clip 19 folks a friend of mine
sarah eaglesfield has just discovered a new censorship technique that they're using on twitter
to censor conservatives now she did this to show it to me but then she did it to other
conservatives on twitter to show how it's affecting everyone uh let's roll clip 19
hi it's sarah eaglesfield here we came across a number of high profile users today who have
been affected by the twitter algorithm there is i believe it's throttling accounts i believe it is
limiting the visibility of their tweets but let me show you so free listed here count dankula
real kandaceau and kyle kasha let me go to moments and then go to an untitled moment search for
tweets by account now if i search for an all person we're doing what we did yesterday um any
letter david nice he might be banned yeah no he's fine so david night is fine real kandace
owens the tweets aren't loading right now try again now let's try somebody i'm not following
bucky isotope his tweets are fine i'm not following bucky but if i go to kyle kasha
parkland survivor kyle kasha
hmm tweets aren't loading right so let's try david hog shall we if you're not showing kyle's
what's happening with david hog his tweets are fine what about count dankula let's have a look
at count dankula oh no tweets aren't loading right now this is what is worrying me i need people
all right but it doesn't stop there let's let's now roll click 20 where she tries the same thing
on president trump's twitter account riddle me this twitter which high ranking u.s politician
is being shadow banned could it be donald trump
no donald trump's fine could it be mike pence
no mike pence is fine could it be potas
potas is limited could it be potas 44
potas 44 is fine what about vp
vp is limited so there you go another example people showing you in real time the censorship
on twitter and there have been multiple different ways people have proved this folks and president
trump is aware of it now and they keep doing it president trump has said you're flirting with
antitrust violations you're doing illegal activity and i did this yesterday on my youtube channel
where i created the info wars army twitter account and and they pull up hey here's accounts you
should follow all liberal accounts beto o'rourke shows up no ted cruise no conservative accounts
folks they are trying to meddle in elections you want to talk about election meddling you want
to talk about trying to rig elections it's the democrats it's the tech left it's silicon valley
wake up water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky
guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now
and in an emergency get to go burky dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com
most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the us what if i told you for
just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract we've
been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart don't just take my word for it
check out all of the success stories at hp extract dot com or to order call 866-295-5305
that's 866-295-5305 hp extract dot com don't risk it when you can take charge of it
we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered
with even better ingredients ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse
bone broth formula to help push you to your limits this incredible formula will help you get the most
out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth one of the most popular health
trends on the planet built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds ultimate
bone broth will help support your healthy muscles digestion tendons and ligaments while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals this incredible chicken bone broth formula contains
time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root chaga mushroom goji berry powder bee pollen
and alfalfa herb powder to support your body it's time to experience what ultimate bone
broth can do for you get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at info
war store dot com info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our
latest release winner son a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winner son is a premium quality
vitamin d3 nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense
plants known as lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free
of toxins and allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it
winner son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development
took over two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin
d3 product in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winner son vitamin d3
not only does vitamin d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function
something the globalists are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139
we are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now
if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals please consider a
contribution 25 50 100 250 or even 500 dollars would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to
strangle our first amendment rights hey how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you
go well now you could do just that with the new official info wars and and here's the best part
it is absolutely free at the apple store and google play you can join the info war today check it out
right now at info wars dot com forward slash app app it's the info wars official app taken on the
globalist at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it we
are unstoppable you're listening to the alex jones show
go
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your
host will johnson is kind of the undercover agent out on the west coast very powerful indeed united
america first is where you can find a lot of his content but as we're talking about the censorship
on social media coming out of the last segment will johnson has recently been what were you
banned will or were you just putting time out on facebook we'll get into why in a second but
but what is your current status i believe it's on facebook where they're censoring you know
yes i've been banned for 30 days because i said black people are not monkey
so so so it's bad if you say monkey even though you're not talking about black people
but then if you say black people are not monkeys that's that's even worse and you get banned
exactly exactly and i was just making a point that the gentleman in florida making a statement
about monkeying around the same statement obama said the same statement chuck schumer said the
same statement diane feinstein said but because he said it he's a republican it's racist and then
you have doesn't make any sense seriously though seriously like let's let's try to get to the bottom
of this i mean this this is totally mentally deranged people right i mean this there's no logic
here i mean they can't actually believe this when don lemon goes on um the lemonhead ten watt
light bulb news on cnn and he says look at the dog whistling that they're doing to the racist when
he says monkey angela rye says this is no longer dog whistling this is a foghorn so they're obviously
getting their talking points from the democrat party but but do they actually do you think they
actually believe this will do you think they really believe that ronda santus said the phrase
monkeying around do they really believe he said that to signal to white people that hey this is a
racist anti-black candidate do you think they really believe that no they don't believe that
they're just using this as a tactic to attack him to attack any republicans and try to demonize them
as racist white people running in in the white are trying to run for position in any political
position across the nation you know i saw this part of his interview when he was under with
don lemon and even on with uh shepherd smith where they were talking about oh my god this was just a
piece out of the donald trump racist playbook i mean seriously they are trying to they pick
anything and everything to try to demonize someone and when they sent me the thing and facebook
banning me they just said you've been banned for this video and they said if you do anything like
this again we're going to permanently ban you so my question is is what is that what statement
caused me to get banned because i said black people are not monkeys or because i was talking
about evolution where they say man came from monkeys which one is it or is it the ai algorithm
that now if you just say monkey they ban you so you can't even say monkey anymore or they're
going to say oh racist ban him yeah i mean you know what that probably is but here is you know
they always say that black people can't be racist so i said okay so can i call somebody a monkey
monkey hey so did you just call me a monkey you get the monkey pass me as a black male
me as a black male i'm giving you the monkey pass i can say can i act like a monkey too can i go
exactly shut down in the wars shut it down they tell us we evolved from monkeys right they try
to tell us we evolved from monkeys just totally like chris but then they say if you say you're a
monkey you have to get banned and you're a racist so you know what i'm pretty sure the next thing
that's going to happen at these schools they're going to remove the monkey bars oh my god no no
will they already look this up they already there was a famous a famous park i think it was called
gorilla park crew look this up there was a famous park and there was a it was a a caged gorilla
had been at this park for decades it was like the landmark of the park the kids would climb on the
cage and there was a caged gorilla they removed the gorilla from the park because they said it
was racist because the gorilla was black well i'm sorry black gorillas have black hair what does
this have to do with race exactly why is it that it's always a democrat that's calling black people
monkey you don't ever hear that from republicans it's always a democrat so the associating black
people with monkeys they do it day in and day out year after year and here it is someone said
monkeying around the same thing obama said now all of a sudden you're racist because you said the
word monkey yeah i did see that but you know i'm talking about the monkey bars that kids will swing
from yeah that's right or maybe we need to maybe we need to change the name of the monkey bars what
should we change it to the swing bars swing bars that's it yeah yeah the monkey bars are now racist
so that we have to rename them the swing bars i think that that's the i think that's the answer
but you know what i'm glad that you brought up the shep smith interview because i don't know if you
were monitoring this as closely as me but but you can really here's what here's what here's what you
can find out you can find out really easily when you monitor news when people are getting talking
points directly from someone else directly from above directly from the democrat party
shep smith don lemon angela rye those are just the three that i heard i'm sure that there were
probably many others that did it they all said the exact same thing this is no longer a dog whistle
this is now a foghorn 110 clearly an order from above this is the rhetoric you're going to use
and when when when shep smith had the the candidate going up against the santus on if you watch the
interview he's trying to bait him into saying the santus is a racist and the the the the guy opposing
santus the santus won't say it so then shep smith just says no come on just just say he's a racist
just say it because that's all they wanted they just wanted that clip of saying the santus is a
racist this was propaganda they don't even try to hide it anymore will they they're doing it right
in front of our face and they think that people are so stupid they won't even see it no you're
absolutely right with this being the midterm election they are trying to demonize white
people and republicans as much as possible they are not hiding it just like you said and i guarantee
they've already banned alex jones info board they've just banned me for 30 days they're banning
other people across the board until november and they might do it permanently and they told me that
if i keep talking is keep having free thoughts that they might just remove me completely from
facebook and i'm like why what exactly did i say that would cause for violence what exactly did i
say that was racist against any group of people what exactly did i say that was demonizing someone
all i did was talk about the things that they are doing and all they're doing is trying to
race bait race bait over and day in every single day and tell people believe that the whole racism
is coming from the republican party which is not true it is a hundred percent coming from the
democratic party and i'm sick of it me as a black man they've used black people to try to
push their crazy agenda onto the rest of us and then you still have a lot of black people for the
life of me i don't understand why they keep voting for the democrats that's doing nothing for them
well it seems to me will though that that the democrat magic of being racist against black
people but then owning their vote that pun not intended or maybe pun fully intended the democrat
black magic seems to be wearing out it doesn't i mean all i see now is for i mean honestly most
black people now like trump i mean i i go out now i get more hate hatred of trump and conservatives
from white people than black people black people are more awakened to what's going on than white
people are it seems like to me you know i think the white liberal they still want black people to be
on the on the virtual plantation because that's their thing that's their token thing yes that is
that's exactly it and they don't want to let go of that they've they've been controlling black people
and now they want to put brown people on the same the same position by destroying them as much as
possible and i'm see i'm here to say that a lot of black people are waking up to it just what a week
and a half ago not even that long it was what 21 percent of the approval rating in the black
community for the president just the other day is up to 36 percent within within a week or a week
and a half that's phenomenal and see that's only the numbers we know about that's the only the people
that's actually speaking up for the president the rest of the people don't want to say anything
because they're afraid of getting demonized or afraid of being attacked i get so many attacks
simply because i support the president and he's a white man but he's the president of the united
states i voted for him most of us voted for him we should not have to do that and it's crazy that
they're doing that to us monkey monkey who i'm a monkey monkey you deserve a deep restful sleep
with knockout by info war's life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs
a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the
world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep
up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com feeling your body is hard work
that's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right
combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and
take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive there's no better way to power your body
flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains when paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break
down nutrients these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress age and outside toxins there's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how
well they can support your body don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery
try the info wars life daily digestive pack today we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me
leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that
then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens
of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot com
four slash show subscribe to the free podcast just click on the link whatever you're subscribing
your podcast can it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com four slash
newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and
articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com four slash show
how they can download the free android and iphone apps how they can then reach out to others
with the information and point out this is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to
see you know if i tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products we have it in full
wars life it take hours michael zx plus and now is a lower price it's stronger it's the other
equation in probiotics it knocks out the yeast the mold the candida it's back in stock the real
red pill it's been sold out for months it's got the preglonone that's the precursor all the natural
hormones in your body that it's got all the minerals and the vitamins the amino acids so you can
upload it and our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine
fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do you can also swallow
it it's a supplement with iodine a super high quality silver and a lot more without you we
couldn't do it so thank you all for remembering info or store.com and remembering that it's not
just you that's already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to
spread the word again thank you so much for being part of the second american revolution
you're listening to the alex jones show
and now the tip of the spear leading the fight to take back the nation
it's olyn shroyer you're listening to the alex jones show all right can you stop monkeying
around please will johnson will johnson's monkeying around here he's monkeying around
during the break you know don't you know that got you banned from facebook will monkeying around
like that yeah yeah that's exactly what got me monkeying around not now paying attention to
what i'm supposed to be saying not paying attention to what i'm being told to do because i'm monkeying
around you know free a free monkey so on a on a on a real note though on a real note i want to talk
about because because what they're trying to do like you said before the midterms as they're trying
to brand republicans as racist that's the whole thing brand them as racist and they think they
have black people brainwashed enough to believe it the exact opposite thing is happening to me
the more they start to cry racism and virtually signal the black people the more i see black
people saying no thanks i'm not going to cater to your brainwashing anymore but i think kandice
owens is a perfect example because think about it like this i would i would make the argument
that kandice owens is doing more to awaken black people than anyone else right now because of how
her message is being amplified and and she's being featured on every different television
station and every news network okay so so what is kandice owens message uh black people have the
right to think for themselves uh black people don't have to vote democrat they can make up their
own mind and she just gives you facts i mean she really a lot of times doesn't even get too political
when she talks about this stuff she just gives you the facts of these issues and so who's trying to
censor kandice owens though what side of the aisle is trying to censor kandice owens message
it's not republicans it's the democrats it's the left why because will i theorize that right now
in america honestly black people right now have have probably more power in america than they've
ever had before now what am i talking about a lot of people don't understand this i'm saying right
now black people in america can change the direction of this country simply by voting
and they're learning this and the fact that they're now leaning to vote conservative and republican
the democrats are totally freaked out because this is true african-american empowerment this is true
black empowerment and it and it's the left it's the democrats and it's social media that's blocking
you that's trying to stop it would you agree with that analysis will oh a hundred percent they block
in the video that i did i went live last night the video i did i talked about the word monkey
and i was i was specifically to to the point that black people are not monkey and is the left
that's demonizing people like kandice owens they're attacking her because for some reason
she's not saying what they want her to say i'm not saying what they want me to say
or what they want me to say i'm not doing it i'm for some reason they can't wrap it around
their mind and you know what you just had a a picture up there a tweet that just came up there
uh the race trader which i've been called the uncle tom uh cooning but i was called one yesterday
that was completely new to me a unicorn i was called a unicorn because i was told that i'm not real
there's no way that i could be real supporting the president of the united states a black man
you are out of your place you're talking out of turn you're doing something you're not supposed
to do because you're black and they say you have dreadlocks and you support the president what is
wrong with you i've had people say that you need to cut off those dreadlocks you don't deserve them
as if dreadlocks are owned specifically to black people if you're not real who am i talking to you
right now that's a good question at first when he said you're a unicorn and first i was like okay
unicorn exactly what is he talking about unicorn and then it down on me oh you think i'm not real
because i support the president of the united states and i don't believe the line left liberal
media so that makes me not real isn't that an incredible dynamic to what's going on right now
though will where i mean honestly i these people they really believe that trump supporters don't
exist the media has actually tricked these people into believing trump supporters don't exist and
they're not real so when they finally meet someone and that says hey i like trump they don't even
believe it especially if it's a black person because they know no no no that's even more impossible
we've been told trumps are racist so there can't be any black people that like trump so
the brainwashing power is is truly on display when you deal with these people and they say
oh my a black trump supporter that can't be that doesn't exist and it's like uh no there's there's
honestly prime millions of them so there's a lot and the reason why they don't say anything because
they're afraid of their family members attacking them they're afraid of getting attacked at word
they're afraid of walking down the street being attacked so what i've done is i purchased a make
america great again hat and i cut the hole at the top of it so my dreadlocks will flare out on the
top of it so that just really triggers them here it is a black deal with dreadlocks wearing a make
america great again hat and my dreadlocks are coming out they and he said i just don't understand
you he said right now my mind just can't wrap around you one person told me that i'm kryptonite
to the democratic party because i'm not supposed to be thinking this way i'm supposed to be in line
but i want to be but i want to be clear about one thing too because we're having this conversation
we don't we i mean the only reason we're even having this conversation
this race-based conversation is because of the left any any other conversation we're having right
now we wouldn't break it down on race we wouldn't even care we don't even see skin color honestly
anymore it's the left that is driving us into these alleys to talk about identity politics
and and we simply go into the alleys to show you how it's actually the left that's engaging in
racism it's the left that obsesses over identity politics over over outside of that paradigm nobody's
really thinking about it nobody's really worried about it where they're so crazy though just hearing
the word monkey freaks them out monkey monkey you know what you're absolutely right my whole
video was to point that out it's the left that is trying to use the word monkey to try to demonize
the left and specifically because he's a white male anybody white this is monkey you're automatically
racist when i was growing up as a kid i remember i would used to go over my friend's house and yes
they were white i have black and white friends and when i would go over to their house they were
referred to their kids as monkey hello monkey come on monkey and i didn't even think anything about
monkey because no one exactly stopped mucking around no one thought it was racist until
trump came into place now everything and anything that they being racist or sexist
is is what it is today these people are insane you're you know what you keep touching on it
they are insane and it is the left 100 percent that wants to push racial division in the country
and they need it more so than ever because of the mid term election we've got to vote them out
2018 or we all lose monkey you know what will all right so so we've got monkey we've got we've got
a whole thing if saying monkey is racist and half the democrat party is racist the crew just had a
story up where they've got all the white democrats saying the word monkey so i guess all the democrats
raised but you know what will we've got a minute and a half left here let's think about all the
things we have to get rid of now because monkey is racist we can't play on the monkey bars as you
point out i think we need to ban donkey kong i think donkey kong a video game based off a monkey
and an ape clearly racist clearly race baiting donkey kong should be illegal yes you can no
longer be curious get rid of curious george that's right here's george you can no longer be curious
you can't do it anymore no i agree no more curious george what what else out there are there any
other no more stuff no more stuff monkeys at at the at the store you can't go to wally world
or wherever it is you go and shop get rid of all the monkeys if there's monkeys at the zoo you've
got to get rid of the monkeys because it's not monkeys that's in the cages it's black people
in the cages at the zoo so next you're going to see liberals and everyone storming these zoos
frees of monkeys i mean frees of black people frees of black people oh my gosh wait a second
hold on will the crew just found this story is that bradley university
what's b you guys wow boston university look at this look at this head we were joking
this is a headline is this boston guys we're trying to figure out where this is from
um it's it's b you i'm not sure we'll find it out but here's the headline a good little monkey
curious george is undercurrent of white dominance in the series continued pop what what does that
even mean oh my gosh white people are buying and reading curious george we have to panic
and i was we were i was just making it up so you can't be curious see you cannot do it yeah
there it is there's the first monkey in space oh you can't say that in space you got to discredit
the monkey now you have to discredit all monkeys so does it mean does that mean that that was the
first black man in space according to the left oh they've gone completely mad it's will johnson
will johnson unite america first check out his videos he follows great reports thanks for joining
us today will we go to break with monkey wrench ban me the food fighters wrote monkey wrench
ban the food fighters ban monkey wrench it's a racist song
in full war's life is launching its newest product we're really really
proud of it it's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body
and for regularity and so much more and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live
active culture for a life as well as my cozy x the targets the yeast the mold and the funguses
in the gut so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products you get them separately or together and make really really big savings and
get high quality products at the same time and i'm doing this to introduce these products to you
bodies sold out in a month a strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with it's sold out
for another month and a half we sold it at 50 off till it's sold out and i think it's to be the same
way with this fiber get yours today in full wars life dot com we're bringing back one of the biggest
fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients ultimate bone broth
info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits
this incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high
quality bone broth one of the most popular health trends on the planet built with more than seven
different superfoods and crucial compounds ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles
digestion tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals this
incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root
chaga mushroom goji berry powder bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body
it's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you get a bottle of the all-new version
of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
we're playing a viral video right now of a young girl getting adopted
I'm going to be adopted
and she finds out she's getting adopted and she breaks down into tears
and the whole room breaks down into tears now I was watching that video last night and cried
myself watching it and it reminded me and I wish I was better at this but because of the nature of
what I do here I tend to forget how important love is as you know the hippie-dippy oh love
and love but but that's the power of love right there and there's a young girl getting adopted
who now has the insurance of love in her life every day and you see the power of love when she
breaks down into tears knowing she is loved she is cared about now why am I telling you this well
it is a feel-good story but I'm actually going to relate this to a real-life situation now this
story comes from BBC my robot makes me feel like I haven't been forgotten so basically the story is
this this girl is lonely and isolated and I guess doesn't have friends or whatever and she had a
situation medically and if it wasn't for the robot she would have been depressed and lonely so
basically the robot's her best friend and saved her from depression okay is that a good source
tool for a robot is it not I don't know what is a is there a larger issue here well maybe
Netflix is coming out with a brand new film that's basically this story in real life it's a cartoon
but but the story is a girl and a robot a girl's best friend is the robot and takes on the world
together with the robot now you might think I'm taking things to the extreme here oh and it's
just a cartoon quit thinking too deeply about it well maybe that's the case but now hold on
let's not forget how propaganda works and let's not forget the history of propaganda
now I'm not saying not to watch this film or it's not a good movie I don't know it's not out yet
but would you really put it past Hollywood would you really put it past China which is now the
lead exporter of sex dolls would you really put it past those institutions not to try to
drive a wedge in between humans and to drive them to robots there's plenty of evidence to support
this theory robot teachers invade Chinese kindergartens well robots are taking over China we know
that they want to bring everything from China to the United States and now you've got movies coming
out about people teaming up with their best friend being a robot you have the little girl
saying that the robot is her best friend it saves her from being lonely again I'm not sitting here
saying there may be not be there might not be a good use for robots I'm not saying that this
movie is meant to be propaganda but I'm simply saying is there a agenda right now to drive humans
away from one another and into the arms of robots that can obviously be controlled
now why do I bring this as a segue to the video of the young girl crying because she was adopted
because folks I'm sorry a robot can never love you a robot does not have the capacity for love a
robot does not have a spirit a robot does not have a soul so instead of looking to robots for the
answer instead of looking to robots for love why don't we look to fellow humans a robot is not
going to make a girl break down and cry when it says you're being adopted only a human can do that
only a human spirit and a human soul can actually make you feel love and so I look at that video
and I say that's the answer to loneliness that's the answer to hatred that's the answer to everything
really is love is embracing the fellow human and making them feel fulfilled we're a young girl
instead of having to go through life wondering why nobody loves her wondering if she can ever
be loved wondering if she is even welcome or wanted in the world because of one simple act of love
because of one simple act of kindness her entire world has changed and she's so emotional she's
brought to tears that's the power of love they want to cut that out folks they are trying to cut
out the love between humans and they want to bring us into loving robots and humans and robots
coming together is the answer is the ultimate answer no love is the ultimate answer and it can
only happen between one human and another nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and support overall
digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune
system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and
clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the
colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout
the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com or call 1-888-253-3139
and ladies and gentlemen we are live on this friday worldwide broadcast i am alex jones your
host we have seen some huge new developments that are all up on news wars dot com and info
wars dot com and be covering right now trump says we as a country cannot tolerate political
censorship blacklisting and rigged search results we are now in the thick of the fight with just
what 67 days out now for the most historic election in world history the most important poll
done internally by the major tech companies we have incredible graphs i'm going to be showing
you in a moment 61 of big tech employees say ban alex jones from cyberspace completely don't let
me buy or sell guess who leads the pack with 71.96 percent that's right ladies and gentlemen apple
run by communist china 71.96 percent first let's go to this clip from indiana last night with the
president throwing down the gauntlet and laying out ladies and gentlemen that we are a free country
and this mass organized racketeering antitrust civil rights violating collusion by the big tech
companies to violate millions of people's speech ahead of the midterms will not stand very importantly
my administration is also standing up for the free speech rights of all americans free speech
rights look at social media it's a thing called free speech rights you look at google facebook
twitter and other social media giants and i've made it clear that we as a country cannot tolerate
political censorship blacklisting and rigged search results and you know it can go the other way
also we will not let large corporations silence conservative voices and it can it can go the other
way to someday it can play little tricks with them we're not going to let them control what we can
and can that see read and learn from we can't do that america is a free country and we are going
to stay always a free country we're defending american values and we're also defending our great
american interests all over the world now this isn't about bragging it's about letting you know why
in full wars is under such attack because of you the tens of millions of listeners and viewers not
just in the u.s but around the world that are educating their leaders from eastern europe
to areas of africa to latin america to the middle east to asia to russia to the united states to
riggs it in the uk the world is on fire against the tyranny of globalism and is awakening that big
tech is the system is the technotronic technocracy in their own words that's controlling everyone so
let's go back 25 days ago on august 6 when i was banned on that monday across four major platforms
within two more days 25 other platforms that's now over 30 actually they come in every day i've
just quit counting all working in collusion and we have where they collude in this online system
called blind perfectly named blind that more than 50 large companies all get in there and then group
think uh with with silicon valley they call it the blind they go in there and blind themselves
to the truth and what made america great and human freedom we're going to be talking about that in a
moment but think about how far we've come ladies and gentlemen when just a couple months ago it was
only in full wars dot com and it was only drudge report dot com and right bar dot com some that
was hammering this and i was on the phone to white house sources into the high-level campaign
saying you must get the message to the president of shadow banning he's 90 shadow banned on twitter
all of the conservatives are 93 band now it's 96 i mean that they have big computer companies
that track it trace it it's admitted and so we've had a crash course with just 66 67 days
how many days we are now i mean we are we are we are so incredibly close to this right now but
this is history and because you got in the game and because you spoke out and because you got
involved and because you you cared 67 days out we are moving the ball down the field
and we are tied right now at the end of the fourth quarter baby this is it and now the big
text been caught censoring they've only intensified the censoring you notice because they are now in
full and complete panic mode and now they have nothing to lose we need chairman antitrust act
emergencies we need federal injunctions we need executive orders now now this is it this whole
rubric of oh these are private companies so this is the democrats working in unison a month and a
half ago to threaten big tech to bring in total censorship or that they would be federalized
you've quote trump lost the midterms so trump was being free market leaving it totally wild and
open like he should but the democrats the chai comms the eu they came in with fines and regulations
but pressure on the tech companies who are already globalist to totally start censoring this is so
this is so incredible ladies and gentlemen we're going to go to break in a few minutes
when i come back i'm going to get to the breitbart article and also the information
liberation article that's up on info wars dot com where it is so thought-provoking it is so
revealing not about alex jones not about info war sure it's about that but it's about you guess
which company the only 21 believe in banning alex jones and guess which company 70 plus percent i
think you can guess that we're going to cover it when we come back from break but first a few
minutes out from break here i don't plug enough you know the globalist and soros are funding
lawsuits against us they're lying about us we got one thrown out yesterday one move forward
but the bottom line here is we're going to continue on getting the truth out and when you
financially support us and by the products we are unstoppable with your help spreading the word
and buying the products ultimate bone broth is an amazing product the strongest formula you're
going to find out there with the chaga mushrooms the concentrated turmeric the bee pollen and so
much more and then the bone broth that is the main ingredient from high quality chicken condensed down
just exponentially more than that chicken noodle soup that mom would make you when you were sick
the ligaments the tendons just just you know your your marrow your blood everything this is
next level beyond way beyond multivitamins beyond really anything with the essence of life
and what it's got in it so this is true next generation advanced paleo nutrition and science
it's 1995 ladies and gentlemen that's more than 50 off okay this that's almost what this costs
for us to produce but i put in a quadruple order my mistake i said double the order from last time
as we were sold out for five months and we ended up uh getting a quadruple order my mistake we have
a quadruple order so normally it's 50 60 bucks leading competitors are we discounted 39 dollars 20
35 dollars it's 1995 right now most supplements are marked up 700 percent this is marked up basically
50 percent is what it comes out to right now you cannot beat that deal ultimate bone broth the
ingredients just like our informations game changing the ingredients are totally hardcore
we don't skip and and have a bunch of you know advertising and stuff and a bunch of slick advertising
it goes into the product many leading brands have more money in the container
than they do in the ingredients we don't have fillers we want you to be blown away bone broth
introductory price the price is going to go up in about a week because we're selling a lot of this
so it's going to go back up to its normal you know 30 40 percent off because we need to find the
operation ultimate bone broth m4slife.com and then it's very hard to get this proprietary
concentrated curcumin and from the tumor 95 percent we don't even know about any else that can
come out without the top organic lab we use is able to do that whole body support anti-inflammatory
support flexibility support joint support goes great with the ultimate bone broth for young
people folks in sports uh older folks especially women oh my gosh bodies and ultimate bone broth
ladies and gentlemen is amazing and they go to go like a horse and carriage 98 percent reviews
4.9 reviews on power reviews it's 50 off and yes it is about to sell out but despite that
i want you who haven't tried it to get off the fence i want folks that are listeners
and patriots to get a discount sign up for auto ship an additional 10 percent off that's 60
percent off same thing for the bone broth info wars live.com info wars store.com info wars is
getting results changing the world you're changing the world let's not back down now let's come to
the challenge in the arena and win we will continue on the other side ladies and gentlemen with more
from the president and these incredible statistics from inside silicon valley i'm alex jones and this
is the info war. ladies and gentlemen we are live on this friday worldwide broadcast oh and
stroyer is coming up from the big studio rogers stone all joseph wadson dr nick baggotson so much more
let's talk tough let's talk comfort let's talk about down home value made in the usa blue
jeans like you wore as a kid remember there's a place down in tennessee
where they make blue diamond gusset jeans
they so pride in every stitch guarantee you love the way they fit
they put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most blue diamond gussets got it
others don't wear good old-fashioned comfort get diamond gusset jeans every stitch guaranteed
and our defender motorcycle gene comes cavilar reinforced see them at gus s e t dot com that's
gusset dot com or call 888-848-7738 that's 888-848-7738 diamond gusset jeans got it others don't
hi i'm dan pilla i started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's
house i sued the irs in one i beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since i wrote the
book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they
thought might never be solved i can help you too if you owe taxes you can't pay don't wait another
day there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case call 834 no tax or go to my website danpilla.com
that's danpilla.com danpilla.com bacon lovers we ship free try our amazing bacon no refrigeration
required for a proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life and protects the
leanest thickest center cut fully cooked bacon in america today ready to eat right from the pouch
or warm and serve savory and delicious wholesale price for your everyday use order today at ready
to eat bacon dot com ready to eat bacon dot com i want to plow into all of this i'm going to spend
a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or
water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are
funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase
the products at infowarstore.com i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best
fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot
beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr. jones that's my dad
the colloidal silver and iodine as well infowarslife.com or triple 825-33139 and your purchase of the
products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're
coming back against us so we need your support. alex jones here with an extremely exciting
announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist
and live in a free society several years ago i set out with top formulators in the us to create
the strongest most concentrated over-the-top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe
i know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that
this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well this is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're
finding the info war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation try alpha power
exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself ladies and gentlemen it's non-gmo it's
for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's made in the us day get your alpha power
today at infowarslife.com everybody needs to try alpha power today
you're listening to the alex jones show
i don't normally play a clip twice in the same show or even twice in the same hour but
president trumps getting more hardcore his learning curve is very quickly about shadow banning about
fixing search results about blacklisting and it all started with info wars being ground zero
so ladies and gentlemen this is about the stay behind network obama setup this is about the
network that they created before he left office in december and january inside the cia this is
mainstream news to use billions of dollars of defense department money with stay behind networks
rogue groups in the government just like other agencies are rogue to the president and the
constitution to actually sabotage the independent media and direct big tech
there they are meeting just about a year ago two years ago with obama to sabotage the election
and steal the election and now it's all come out that they've been doing it so let's go to the president
in indiana last night throwing down the gauntlet here it is very importantly my administration
is also standing up for the free speech rights of all americans free speech rights
look at social media it's a thing called free speech rights you look at google facebook twitter
and other social media giants and i've made it clear that we as a country cannot tolerate
political censorship blacklisting and rigged search results and you know it can go the other way
also we will not let large corporation silence conservative voices and it can it can go the
other way to someday it can play little tricks with them we're not going to let them control
what we can and cannot see read and learn from we can't do that america is a free country
and we are going to stay always a free country we're defending american values and we're also
defending our great american interests all over the world it was george arwell that famously
said in a world of universal deceit telling the truth is revolutionary act and that's totally true
and you know when trump says we're going to make america great again they go it was never great
it'll never be great let's see we're having our morale raised we have the ability we have the
capacity we have the history we can do it and it's happening 4.6 growth rate
and there he is telling these basic truths we are a free country these are political town squares
and commons the companies have said that but they're going in and removing whoever whenever they
want exercising real control social control to not let you communicate over these major platforms
or do business or live when they are now bigger than brick and mortar combined with big tech not
letting them have access to the market it's it's just like letting black folks you know eat certain
lunch counters or own property i mean this is this is true tyranny so here's this bombshell info
from right bart.com it's also information liberation.com it's all upon info wars.com
poll 61 percent of big tech companies and employees say ban alex jones to quote our
great president these are not good people folks and then it shows the survey a recent survey
a big tech workforce discussed app build show that 61 percent on the app blind a recent survey of
big tech workplace discussion app blind that's a good orwellian term shows that 61 percent of
employees at major tech firms agree that twitter should join the rest of silicon valley and black
listing info wars host alex jones how nazi like is that the notable exception is twitter employees
themselves the workplace discussion app blind man you talk about apropos or symbolic that is amazing
is a consortium of 37 000 microsoft 6 500 uber 21 000 amazon employees and we're from google
facebook airbnb and others and they said they need to ban alex jones so apple of course
chinese communists run the worst suicide net factories total evil helping round up their
people putting their i cloud keys on it helping deperson folks that don't play ball with the
chicoms 71.96 or 72 percent say completely banned me from everything just disappear me
put me in a gulag basically cisco that's the actual routers and hubs 67.65
lift is giving everybody free rides to vote for the democrats which is an election meddling
i mean that that is a gift in kind 65.52 xpedia 64.29 don't worry i won't stop with any of you
guys uh intuit 63 pinterest 63 oracle oracle yeah we have some issues there uh 62.5 they're
oath 59 intel 57 adobe 56 and it goes down all the way down to airbnb 51 microsoft 51 and then
twitter 21.43 so i guess it shows internally jack really is trying to say he doesn't want to do this
that looks like he may be more legitimate compared to some of these other big giants
but he's already banned malo enopolis gab mcginnis you name it this is incredible
to sit there and read this and they can do it to everybody and they're setting the precedent
with communist chinese deplatforming unpersoning social scores for total control
and we've also had other major companies and other major groups push for everybody else to be
deplatformed as well and they admit especially at facebook that they're now bringing this plan in
for quote trusted and untrusted users and they're tracking your sexual preference
what your medical issues are where you live they've got a psychological profile on you
beyond anything hitler ever had it violates the fair housing act you name it and president
trump is taking action as a champion against it so i am very very proud of president trump
i'm very very proud of our listeners of our radio affiliates of our tv affiliates of everyone
standing up for free speech all the new radio and tv affiliates hundreds of them that have
been picking us up literally since this happened a month ago you're changing the world and we're
in a fight for our lives and we're in a fight for our way of life and this is the real deal
and it's just amazing that they're trying to do this in plain view but it's because they're scared
and they said in the wiki leaks we delivered the election to obama hillary we will deliver your
ascendancy that is the memos we showed last week and so they couldn't deliver the ascendancy
so they don't know what to say now they don't know what to do now and so the dying dinosaur media
where people like brian stilter get a hundred retweets and paul washington gets a 50 000 or
100 000 he says take alex jones and trump off twitter i want to be the big boy because
they're failed no one likes them they're known liars so the dinosaur media now are the attack
dog thought police that interface with big tech to censor us and people are just now figuring
this out this is classical racketeering but they did it through the cia office that obama set up
in the john warren defense authorization act now they have senator warner mark warner senator
white and senator murphy in the legislation that was set up to do this and saying don't just ban
info wars ban everybody and 25 days later 26 days later it's happening and trump's fighting back
but he's got to move now and all of you've got to get more vocal than ever because they're trying
to steal your birthright it is insane oh and shroyer is coming up at info wars dot com ford
slash show and stations across the country right after this break but whatever you do
understand the fight for the future is now in your children's future these bullies want to dominate
hollywood elites want to dominate you but they're going to fail if you take action and please check
out the great products info wars life dot com it's the free market and you funding us that allows
us to stand against these tyrants in total 21st century fifth dimensional uh fifth level warfare
all right god bless you all more live transmissions coming up now what are you going to do stand up
and fight or lay down information war now american victory and global victory for a new
renaissance hi i'm dan pilla i started fighting the iris over 40 years ago when they tried to
seize my mother's house i sued the iris in one i beat the iris then and i've been beating them
ever since i wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax
problems they thought might never be solved i can help you too if you owe taxes you can't pay don't
wait another day there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case call 800 34 no tax or go to my website
danpilla.com that's danpilla.com danpilla.com water is the single most important thing your body
needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family since 2005 thousands have
depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems
in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency get to go burky.com
or call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky.com
the real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and
better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of
the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new version of
the powerhouse
pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart brain healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill
it could become one of our fellow info waters favorite products now with an extra proprietary
energy blend inside including reed extract your motto daily extract and more you can get that extra pick me
that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to the super blue line super blue silver
with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy and affordable help stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune gargle only available at infowarslife.com that's infowarslife.com
for the power of ancient medicine with bodies bodies contains one of the most potent forms of tumeric available tumeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied urbals today it is well known in traditional medicine for ex soothing properties our pure tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and so much more regular
tumeric route from the store only contains one to 5% of active ingredients but our tumeric route extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and time to work synergistically for full body support try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139
you're listening to the alex jones show
gentlemen we have called you together to inform you that we are going to overthrow the united states government leading a frontal assault on the lies of the new world order it's alex jones
we turn to them and we very toughly say sorry you're fired true very tough things to get passed i guess i'm good at getting things passed but it was great we had great help by the republicans
by the republicans in congress we had virtually no help by the democrats very importantly my administration is also standing up for the free speech rights of all americans free speech rights
look at social media it's a thing called free speech rights you look at google facebook twitter and other social media giants and i've made it clear that we as a country cannot tolerate political censorship black listening and rigged search results and you know it can go the other way also
we will not let large corporations silence conservative voices and it can it can go the other way too someday it can play little tricks with them we're not going to let them control what we can and cannot see read and learn from we can't do that
america is a free country and we are going to stay always a free country we're defending american values and we're also defending our great american interests all over the world
look at africa you can fit three north americas inside of it it's got more resources than any other continent in the world and it's got what more than 20 countries but ladies and gentlemen it is in squalor it is in warfare it is in violence and why is that
because christianity was never able to get full control and not that christianity is perfect as man implements it but if you look at europe it was just like africa 2000 plus years ago murder death killing constant war human sacrifice in fact some cases even worse
africa had more civilization in some areas than europe but what happened christianity never got down here christianity once it came to europe created real stability
why are the globalists going after christianity because they want you totally alone they don't want you to have any culture they don't want to have anything that ties a white person or an arab or a black person as humans together in one ethos or idea
and even if you don't believe in jesus christ like i personally do it doesn't mean almost some high horse judging you what is your ethos what binds you to other people
well leftist ideology is about what color you are and where you came from and then fighting with each other over it and being controlled by that when that's the opposite of martin luther king junior the christian
you see so it's christians that tried to end slavery it's christians that tried to have the civil war over slavery it's christians that got the west to reform much of the planet
and now it's all falling back into the mud because we're losing that and globalism is being replaced with it oh and shroyer has been hosting the broadcast today he's been doing a great job
we're going to have coming up in the next segment dr nick baggots who's an amazing individual is going to be breaking down the science of control the science of censorship the science of weather modification
in fact you might want to introduce him later when he comes on next segment just to get into that because they made fun of you about that when they admit there's real weather weapons
and all we're saying is wow look at this meteorology so that's all coming up and I wanted to say you've been really kicking butt and you're wanting to pull a doubleheader today hosting this show I've got a bunch of stuff done and you're going to be hosting the war room coming up
just about an hour and 30 minutes
yeah and I'm looking forward my guest is going to be christopher nyleem he's done a lot of work with president trump when it comes to veterans affairs working with the veterans getting them proper health care
so I'm going to get an update with him as far as where the VA stands and since trump is coming on
you're having a veterans special yeah veterans calling show special as well as you know what the military thinks about what trump has done in response to everything obama did to kind of ratchet it back
so we're going to be talking a lot about the military and taking military calls from veterans on the war room with christopher nyleem but it's always fun to host the alex show show this is the biggest audience and the most active audience in the world
they're trying to crush you they're trying to crush us but nothing can stop you spreading the word info wars dot com port slash show signing up for the free podcast and telling other people about it
we're number one on android and on apple millions and millions of downloads they took us from number one we're not even listed now but you can still find the apps that's because they're scared they don't want to validate
the nationalism and populism and the christian judei christian ethos is back and then from russia to the united states from brazil to you name it people are awakening to the globalist plan of dehumanization to make us alone and to make us control
now i'm going to go ahead and in this segment here because i want to go to part of a poll joseph watch and report that's really really really really really critical and then when we come back dr nick baggage is going to be on and so much more but again ladies and gentlemen
without you supporting us without you spreading the word about the broadcast we're nothing but the president's awake now he's taking action you're taking action we're only 67 days out from the election i want to thank all our a m and f m affiliates on to thank our tv affiliates our cable affiliates all over the country from chicago to houston texas and i want to just ask all our listeners watching local tv our listing local radio thank that station thank their sponsors
become a sponsor it takes money and information warfare to do this so just don't think about info worse today think about the affiliates you're listening to and how precious it is that you can tell people to grocery store our church you know get up there in front of the church and speak most churches will have you do that
talk about the chinese communist mark of the beast apples identifying and facebook coming out and saying that they'll track everything you do and won't let you operator talk to people if you don't support globalism and one world religion and all of this we are being socially engineered that's what the big text about that's what these systems the nudges and manipulates and control us are all about
so the fight is now and i'm so proud of all of you the fact that humanity is now fighting back just briefly again these specials are about to end ultimate bone broth formula ladies and gentlemen the very best out there's only 1995 will probably never be that price again
so i put a huge order in it's amazing find out about the health benefits of that find out about bodies about to sell out info or store dot com get free shipping on orders of dollars or more and get additional 10% off in any order when you sign up for auto ship cancel anytime you stood with us is why we're still here and you continue to stand with us we're going to have a future
all right i was going to go online right now let's go to the control room real quick again ladies and gentlemen inside the house of Islam is Islam outside of Islam is the house of war think about that think about the facts of the universe think about communist china that executes gays
okay executes buddhist and christians but tim cook of apple will say absolutely nothing about it start thinking about all the fraud that you're sold start thinking about how they're lying to you start thinking about how they are manipulating you and break through from the conditioning right now
we are fighting as hard as we can but we can't do it without your help we are fighting to get the major issues out in front of people and you're doing as well and it's actually working but the enemy striking back with everything they've got so now we've got to strike back with the truth
we are doing our best history is happening now and i'm just again thanking you for what you've done thanking you for your action and want to salute you all and ask you now to pray but then once you get your heart right with God to then get out there and take legal waffle political peaceful action against the
globalist because the false flags are coming the globalist are gearing up and now is the time to be awake and involved you can feel it you can see it okay infowords.com newswords.com now folks can tune back into the live feed with Owen shroyer dr nick baggage and so much more
history is happening now please be part of it
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us your mother nature to detoxify the body that's why I'm introducing the
Z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the USA it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info or it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that I personally have been taking
for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can
be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield infowords
life dot com we knew it was coming the whole thing was for me leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on youtube and facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and is
lamaphobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds go to info wars dot com
four slash show subscribe to the free podcast click on the link whatever you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's also critical to go to info wars dot com four slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos
and articles on our own platform but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com four slash show how they can download the free android and iphone apps and how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to see
we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits this incredible formula will help you
to get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth one of the most popular health trends on the planet built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles
digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals this incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body it's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at info wars store dot com
as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
that's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of advanced multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body
using a proprietary process we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more
start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
this program contains language and sequences some viewers may find disturbing
the nation and all of our freedoms hang by a thread and the military apparatus of this country is about to be handed over to scum or beholden to scum and the russian scum
please listen if you don't if you want if you fail to understand and the same incredible terror that's menacing me will strike at you the function of all life is survival sleep sleep sleep
sleep
The seed is planted.
Sleep.
Terror grows.
Elizabeth, wake up!
I'll get you when you sleep!
Sit up!
Invasion of the body snatchers.
All of a sudden, they're growing like parasites.
Is it contagious?
It's not real.
It looks right after you.
You're looking at it as if it was human or not human.
Now, the classic fear begins to grow.
We're being cornered.
In a modern masterpiece of science fiction.
The barricaded street.
Invasion of the body snatchers.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
The
The
The
The
The
The
Bono.
Bono has announced that during the upcoming U2 tour, he's going to wave a giant EU flag on stage.
Well, U2 is kicking off its tour in Berlin this week.
And we've just had one of our more provocative ideas.
During the show, we're going to wave a big bright blue EU flag.
According to Bono, waving a giant EU flag is transgressive.
It's a radical act.
Waving a flag that represents a giant unelected bureaucracy.
So radical, waving a flag that represents the interests of a Byzantine metropolitan elite who have repeatedly ignored the democratic will of European citizens.
So transgressive, waving a flag that represents draconian self-serving neoliberal economic policies that have ruined the lives of working-class people in Greece, Italy and Spain.
So radical, waving a flag that represents a federal super-state whose entire agenda is based around removing sovereignty and control from ordinary people.
So transgressive, one of the richest celebrities on the planet, waving a flag that represents one of the most opaque, autocratic institutions on the planet.
So radical, mate, remember when Geldof stuck his middle finger up at those working-class fishermen?
In Paris, you make him look like a man of the people.
Bono says he's proud to recall when Germany welcomed frightened Syrian refugees.
Remember, this was the same guy who back in 2015 lectured us all not to use the word migrants.
We must call them refugees.
Then what happened? Waves and waves of migrants, not refugees, flooded into Germany.
It was 2,000 migrants who molested over 1,000 women in Cologne on New Year's Eve in 2015.
It was a migrant who barreled a truck through a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016, killing 12 people and injuring 56 others.
Germany's violent crime rate increased, and 90% of it was attributable to male migrants.
Yeah, hope you're proud, Bono. Really proud.
Hey, Bono, if you're so proud, why didn't you take in any refugees?
I mean, you're worth $700 million, and you own three multi-million dollar properties.
But don't expect him to take in any refugees since he doesn't even like having neighbors.
Not content with living in a single mansion in 2005, Bono bought the one next door.
Still no room for those frightened Syrian refugees, though.
Oh, but he temporarily changed the chorus of the U2 song to raise awareness.
So I guess that's something, right?
Bono says only dirty right wing nationalists think that diversity is a danger because Bono loves diversity.
He loves diversity so much.
He spends most of his time living in an affluent suburb of Dublin that's almost entirely white.
So diverse.
In a town which is full of mega-rich celebrities like himself, so diverse.
What's the difference between God and Bono?
God doesn't walk around Dublin believing he's Bono.
That was a joke.
That really saddens me.
Bono says he's proud of Europe's fight to end climate change, a fight that Bono does his best to contribute towards
by travelling around Europe in his luxury private Learjet and lazing around in his CO2 belching 140-foot yacht.
U2's private jet carbon footprint for its 2009 tour was also big enough to fly the van to Mars and back.
Bono also paid for two long-distance taxi rides and a flight to pick up a hat that he'd forgotten.
So proud of you, Bono.
Bono says he's also proud of the fight to end global poverty.
So proud that his charity called out giant corporations who use shell companies and offshore tax havens
to siphon much-needed funds out of developing countries.
But not proud enough for Bono himself to refrain from buying into a partnership of one of those very shell companies.
Bono's so proud of the fight to end global poverty that his charity, which was set up to help fight global poverty,
gives so much money to help fight global poverty.
No, no, that's right. It gives just 1% of its income to fight global poverty.
According to Bono, Europeans living under the EU are happier than ever.
So happy that according to a recent poll, Europeans living in France, Germany and Spain,
the countries most closely embroiled with the EU, are overwhelmingly pessimistic about their children's future.
In France, for example, just 9% thought that their children would be better off than them in the future.
So happy. Meanwhile, Bono says he's inspired by Pope Francis' solidarity with the most vulnerable.
Unless, of course, you're talking about vulnerable children being sexually abused by Catholic priests.
Something Pope Francis has helped cover up for years.
Here's an idea, Bono. If you really do care about protecting the vulnerable,
why not have a word with Pope about how he rewarded the cardinal who raped little boys for decades?
Doesn't sound very inspirational to me.
So, Bono, go ahead and wave your little EU flag, perform your insufferable celebrity virtue signal.
Because that very sanctimonious, out-of-touch, imperious, know-it-all attitude
is precisely why we voted to leave the EU in the first place.
Two Iranian individuals, Amadreza Muhammadi Dostar and Majid Gorbani, were arrested and formally charged by the Department of Justice,
with allegedly acting on behalf of the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran by conducting covert surveillance of Israeli and Jewish facilities in the United States
and collecting identifying information about American citizens and U.S. nationals who are members of the group.
Mujahideen Akhalk, a group opposed to the Iranian Islamic regime. Representative Peter Roskham, Republican of Illinois, recently told the Free Beacon that these two arrests are just the tip of the iceberg.
This is a result of the Iran regime getting financial support from the Obama administration in the Iran deal.
Acting with impunity, that deal emboldened them. This is an unmasking of that.
Unfortunately, it's all too predictable. Give them a level and regime huge amounts of cash with no restraining influence, and this is what happens.
Intelligence experts have been warning that Iran has sleeper cell agents spread across the United States to lay the groundwork for a large-scale terror attack on American soil.
Peter Roskham went on to say,
The takeaway is we can take the Iranians at face value. They were declarative during the Iran negotiations. They were not willing to make any commitments as it relates to their state sponsorship of terror.
It's clear they haven't. This can't be a surprise to anyone. It is entirely consistent with what they've been communicating.
The surprise is the idea anyone thought they were slowing down or giving up their aggressive disposition.
Fortunately, the arrest of these two Iranian spies suggests that things may be changing under this new administration.
We will be looking more closely at Iran in weeks to come.
This is Greg Ries reporting for infowars.com.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, and healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, has quickly become one of our fellow infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract and Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
About all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstores.com.
Now, because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
So now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
And welcome back to infowars. This is Dr. Nick Begich, and I'm sitting in on this last hour.
Today on a Friday, I'm broadcasting from California, doing a little bit of traveling.
Man, where do we start today? What a crazy couple of weeks since I've been here.
You know, that's a free speech issue. Let's start with that, and let's start with a little bit of discussion about what's going on in not just the United States, but really around the world.
You know, the globalists have a different cultural overlay, no matter whether you live in Europe, Asia, Latin America, or the United States.
And essentially, it's to attack those that would challenge the status quo.
In the last few days in Germany, there has been some huge protests, primarily anti-immigration protests.
And these have been brewing for a long, long time.
I have one of my business partners is in Germany, and he has lived there all his life.
And what he has seen in the last seven or eight years is really he is rethinking his whole life.
He is probably exiting Germany before the year is out. He's had it. He's done.
And here's what's going on. You know, political correctness as a concept in the U.S. is one thing.
In Germany, it's on steroids. I mean, believe me, you don't dare say anything in Germany for fear of being retaliated against by the left.
Social Democrats control the country, and I don't know how you get social and Democrats together.
But now we're seeing that repeated model in the United States, where we're seeing the Democratic Party shifting more and more to the socialist side of the equation,
and in fact, alienating their own membership.
You know, this is, again, political speech, controlling speech, and what's appropriate to say.
A lot of what's been happening in Germany is about to happen here.
You know, people are not free to speak their mind in Germany, and that is changing.
Suppressing speech breaks out in another way ultimately, and that is what we're beginning to see.
The press in Germany has been forbidden from releasing true information on the crime increases.
90% of violent crimes being caused by immigrant populations, and they're not even able to talk about it.
And this is what is angering people.
What triggered the latest riots and protests was, in fact, the stabbing of a German citizen by a migrant.
You know, Germany was an orderly country. I started traveling quite a bit there 25 years ago and have once or twice a year since,
but never have I seen what we're seeing now.
And you're going to see more of this.
In fact, on this program some months ago, I talked about this, said this was coming our way, and here it is today.
When you think about protecting your borders or opening your borders in the way that Germany has, it was a mistake, a significant mistake.
Because culturally, it's just you're begging for the clash.
And why didn't other Muslim countries open their doors?
Why didn't Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, and some of the other countries in the Middle East open their doors?
You know, this is a question that should be asked.
At the same time, when we think about what's happening now to Alex and many others, the idea of banning people from speaking their mind from saying
what we've been always free to say in this country, this is the beginning of the end of what we think about within this republic.
It's time to get back, back to the essence of what we are as Americans, to be able to speak our mind, to know that we can engage debate without recrimination,
because that is what the country is about.
We're going to be right back shortly.
There's going to be a little bit of a break.
Pay attention to the commercials.
You know, Alex needs to support this network, needs to support, there's a lot of things coming, and we need to stay in contact with the American people.
We'll be right back after these brief messages.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the pro-pure whole house filtration system today.
And welcome back to InfoWars.
This is Dr. Nick Begich, and I'm standing in this last hour on a Friday broadcasting from California instead of my normal location in Anchorage, Alaska.
You know, just before the break, we were just starting to get into this whole speech issue.
You know, in terms of talking about Europe, what's kind of happening there, but right here at home.
Thank God Donald Trump is speaking up now and dealing with this issue because really when you start silencing the speech from the right or the left, from any group, this is a dangerous, dangerous precedent.
Now, short of yelling fire in a movie theater, all speech should be permitted.
If you violate somebody's rights in terms of slander or libel, there's remedies for that, but it's not up to the media to be the judge or the jury or to silence you in this way.
This is fundamentally a violation of everything we know as Americans.
Even the far leftist Noam Chomsky has come out in favor of the idea of people speaking freely, including Alex Jones.
George Norrie had Alex on for a couple hours the other night. I listened to that broadcast.
Good job, George. I mean, you know, we've worked together for 20 years and I work with everybody in broadcasting from the far left to the far right and everybody in between.
And why do I do that? Because everyone needs the message that deal with the issues of technology, the issues of science, the issues of politics and economics, and we may not agree.
In fact, most of us will never agree on everything. And if somebody says they agree with you on everything, one of you is lying, because I just don't believe that's generally possible.
But think about it. You know, my family is Democrats, Republicans, libertarians, and independents and everything in the middle.
And when we get together, believe me, there are explosive fiery debates. But when we leave, we embrace each other as brothers and sisters, as family members, which is the same spirit this country used to have and we need to capture again.
It's not about shutting down the other voices. It's about listening to those voices to develop our own arguments and to recognize when we might be wrong.
But that will never happen in the way that things are moving today. We need to take the opposite. We need to make sure that the platforms are level, that they're not restricting speech, and there needs to be penalties for these platforms that do.
Because this is really pushing and spending money and resources for political candidates and political purposes in an unreasonable, unfair, and I believe, which could be illegal.
But taking it a little bit further, think about this idea. First comes speech, and then what comes? And think about the companies that are doing it.
Facebook, Google, Apple, they have more access on information on people than anyone ever thought of. You know, way back, maybe, I think it was almost 20 years ago now, there was a program being considered within the Pentagon called Total Awareness.
You will remember this, and there was some whistleblower, some leak, information came out on it, and they were going to track all this stuff about all of us.
And you know what? Instead, they got Google, they got Apple, they got Facebook, and they have literally kicked in the digital doorway of every one of our homes.
Let me say that again. They've kicked in the digital doorway of every one of our homes. You know, when privacy was enshrined in our Constitution, it was done to avoid exactly that.
There wasn't a digital doorway then. Most of our information about it was, in fact, held in our homes. Not so anymore. It's held in electronic databases scattered around the planet, from what we purchase to what we do to who we socialize with.
All of this data is now collected and has been for a couple of decades, at least, in what are called data warehouses. One of my books, Earth Rising the Revolution, gets into this. I wrote it 18 years ago, and you can read that book.
It's available through InfoWars, but you can read that book, and I'll tell you what. Everything in it was documented with over 650 sources.
And our predictions about how that technology will be used is a subject of mainstream media now, almost 20 years later. 20 years later, and here we are playing catch-up with information that was readily available long ago.
And it is five minutes to midnight. It is time to engage, fully engage, and demand that personal privacy, free speech, and the fundamentals of this Democratic Republic and our constitutional government be enforced and protected.
In fact, when you get into these big networks that are controlling what we say and who gets to speak and who gets to platform, the idea that they should be able to collect this information should be forbidden.
Now, let me say this in a different way. All that data that's collected, now some of it's directly related to financial transactions. You buy something, they keep a credit card data.
You've got six months to dispute the charge in most jurisdictions. On six months and one day, that data ought to be dumped. In other words, it ought not to be allowed to be collected.
And no, you shouldn't be able to consent to it. They shouldn't even be able to ask you, will you sign the agreement to let us use your data?
No, should not be allowed. Should not be allowed to be asked. No one should be asked to give up their personal freedom. No one should be asked to give up their personal privacy.
No one should be asked to have their digital doorway kicked in and give them permission. Nobody should be asked to give up their constitutional rights.
It should be illegal to ask the question. These are rights inalienable rights, rights that rest with who we are as living souls.
No one has the right to take it. No one has the right to keep it. And certainly, no one has the right to manipulate it for political and economic purposes,
which is the whole business model for Google, Facebook, Apple, and all the rest of them, is to take the data, use it to manipulate political and economic outcomes, and to push the agenda of those that run those networks.
Alex was talking just before I came on about the idea that they're polling. You know, they're polling all these organizations.
They found what employees think about banning Alex Jones and banning others. It's not an issue to poll employees over. They work for these utilities.
They don't get to decide who goes on the air and who has access. Who cares what the poll says? It's irrelevant.
You could poll a lot of things during America's history and find some things were unpopular, starting with the revolution itself, where 3% to 6% of the American public at that time favored a revolution.
Minority voices lead to the kinds of changes that created the very country where we're standing and sitting today.
This is why speech is important. This is why political debate is important. This is why diversity and political opinion is as fundamental as any other aspect of the American character.
And we cannot abandon it on the doorstep of high technologies altered, or Silicon Valley, or anyone else.
Now, think about these same companies. To get into China, they had to create the very models for controlling speech and tracking individuals that have led to the most invasive thing we've ever seen.
This makes 1984 look good compared to what we're seeing happening in China today. But those very same companies facilitating this ideological change in America taking a Chinese model and overlaying it in the US to manipulate a democratic process.
What the heck is that? When you talk about influence in American politics, I can't remember which California senator had a Chinese spy in their office for 20 years, but you only saw that flash for a few seconds in the mainstream media.
We're going to be back in a few minutes. We've got a couple of breaks. There's some great Labor Day specials going on right now.
It's a good way to support Alex at the same time, save a lot of money on some very, very good health products for you and your family.
Support Alex, take advantage of the Labor Day special. We'll be right back after a few moments. This is Dr. Nick Begich with InfoWars on the tip of the spear with Alex Jones.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the health care system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com, that's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site now. If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
The fifth year, even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
You can join the InfoWare today. Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the InfoWare's official app taken on the globalist at point blank range and with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the InfoWare's.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
And welcome back to InfoWare's. This is Dr. Nick Begich and I'm standing in on this fourth hour on a Friday, headed into Labor Day weekend.
I want to remind everyone of the Labor Day specials, take a look at the site. This is a great way to support this network.
It helps everyone continue to spread this word and get the message out. You know, this is what it is all about.
You know, there's an opportunity to not just build your physical health by taking advantage of the products and the sale that's going on right now,
but your intellectual health by looking at these issues in a much broader, much more accurate way from my perspective.
You know, when I travel, I do turn on a TV set. You'll see it in the background because I'm in a hotel.
So I'll turn it on and I'll watch Fox News for a little while and I'll watch CNN for a little while.
And every time I'm just blown away at really the kind of information that's coming out is so different.
You'd think we were on a different planet. So contrary views are critical to preserve.
Pick up the phone. When you get off of the show today, pick up your phone, call your Senator, your U.S. Senator, your U.S. Congressman,
and start complaining about the banning that's happening with Facebook and these other platforms.
Call them up. Their phone numbers are listed in your local phone books. Look them up online.
Start calling your congressional offices and complaining about the silencing of political speech.
Now is the time. These phone lines should be lit up.
Call them. Tell them what you think. Don't let them shut down contrary invoices.
Next time it will be them. And this is the truth of the matter.
We have seen university professors come out on this issue. We've seen people from the far left now coming out on this issue
recognizing that this is not the way the nation should go. Not now, not ever.
When you think about, again, what's kind of happening across the spectrum and across the sea, just before I started this hour,
we had a report from Europe. And I want to talk a little bit about what's going on in Europe.
You hear about the European Parliament all the time, and we heard just in the last hour, the reminder that nobody votes
for anybody, anybody on the European Parliament. They're appointed and they think they're a democratic institution.
This is a representative government by representative government representing only a layer of the elite.
They do not represent the average European because not one single average European voted for any of them.
And yet they control their currency through their central bank, and they control a body of regulation
that covers countries that are so different, so diverse, and they claim authority in doing it.
No, in our world, authority of government comes from the people, by the people, and for the people, by the vote.
Not by appointment, by an elite crowd who decides who's going to make the decisions for us.
The same is true with the United Nations. You know, it's a great idea to get countries together to have conversations,
talk about mutual interests, but they have no right to regulate me.
I didn't vote for any of these people. Certainly, I'm interested in the opinions of others.
I'd like to see us have those kind of dialogues, but don't tell me what to do unless I've had a chance to pull a lever,
punch a hole, fill in a blank, and cast a vote. These are not democratic institutions.
These are institutions representing the very, very elite.
And I'm not talking from a place of no background.
My father was a United States congressman. My brother was a United States senator.
My other brother was and is currently a state senator.
One of my brothers is running for governor of Alaska right now.
My uncle was a mayor and later a state representative in Minnesota.
My mother was national committee woman twice.
I've run a couple of times as both the Alaska Independence Party and as a libertarian.
And this is what I can tell you. The situation is getting worse.
We used to have an environment where people could speak their mind, debate vigorously, and then go have dinner together.
Because we were interested in solutions, not polarization.
We need to get back to a government of solutions.
You know, people have been beating me up a little bit because a lot of the people that have heard me over the years
think I shouldn't be on this broadcast on InfoWars.
And I'm not going anywhere.
I'm going to be here supporting this network, supporting Alex Jones, supporting the right to free speech,
because that is the fundamentals.
You know, yeah, I have a different voice. Sometimes Alex and I disagree.
But you know what? We disagree as gentlemen.
And most times, more often than not, we do agree.
And this is where it's at.
You know, we have this opportunity to inform and enlighten the public.
And this is what we need to be doing more of, not less of.
One of my good friends works in a staff position within the European Parliament.
She's been there over 20 years.
We've had conversations once every couple of weeks for an hour or two about what's happening in Europe.
One of the more recent conversations I had dealt with Trump's visit over there
when he was talking to NATO about paying their fair share.
And I asked her, I said, what do you think about that?
She goes, the 2% or the 4% because you remember, we're paying over 4%.
Germans are paying a little over 1% and most Europeans aren't paying the 2% that they agreed to.
And that's 2% of their total economic GDP.
So here we are, as Americans, we pay not 90% as Trump had indicated.
That's probably the overall European expenditure.
But for NATO itself, we actually pay 67% of all of NATO's costs.
I don't think that's fair.
I don't think that's reasonable.
For 70 years, we've carried Europe's water.
We forgave all of their World War II debts.
We've maintained the defense of Europe for 70 years.
Two years since we've had Trump in.
Now our so-called friends in Europe are saying, well, maybe we're not such great friends anymore.
After 70 years of carrying their water, we're not their friend anymore.
No, maybe they're not our friend and maybe they never were.
You know, when you look at Europe's trade balances, which is another area Trump has taken on,
Europe, the EU has a $440 billion trade surplus as of last year.
We have almost the identical number in the negative, a trade deficit.
Okay, and Europeans don't think they have a fair trade agreement with us.
They're wrong.
Europeans need to pay their own way, pay for their own defense, and we need to get out of there and limit what we do in Europe.
They are big enough to pay their own bill.
And it's obvious when you look at trade balances, when you look at all economic measures,
and the difference is when you can get a free lunch on the American taxpayers' back, you take it.
This is what's going on with our so-called friends in Europe.
It is not the world it was.
And it should change.
And we have a president that is making it change.
This is Dr. Nick Begich.
You're listening to Infowars, and we'll be back after these brief messages.
Support this network.
Pay attention to the advertising and help us stay on the air.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work, and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, the strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today, InfowarsLife.com.
For the top five or top ten news feeds, go to Infowars.com for a slash show.
Subscribe to the free podcast. Just click on the link. Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to Infowars.com for a slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about Infowars.com for a slash show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
And welcome back to Infowars. This is Dr. Nick Begich sitting in this Friday here from California rather than my normal home in Alaska.
Just before the break, we were talking a little bit about the EU. And I challenge listeners to look this up.
If you look up the EU and you look up their sort of platform, you know, what do they stand for? You know, one of their major issues that they actually stand for is the idea of transferring wealth out of your pocket into someone else.
And they say this is a fundamental basic human right. Now think about this. This is like a basic thing is to take your money and hand it to someone else.
Now, I want to tell you how far we've come in a little over 100 years. In 1894, there was a US Supreme Court decision dealing with income taxes, which is the idea of taking money out of your pocket and sticking it in someone else's.
And you know what it was decided in 1894, unconstitutional. It was called involuntary servitude, slavery, ladies and gentlemen. And that was what the decision talks about, involuntary servitude, that no government had the right to tax your labor.
So what happened? So it goes in 1909, they launch an amendment to the US Constitution, which finally cleared in 1913, which is when they created the income tax.
And they did it in a little tiny bite, you see, because the income tax in 1913 was no taxes on the first 22,000 that you made, which in 1913 probably encompass 98, 99% of the US population because nobody made $22,000.
To put that in perspective, gold was $20 an ounce, $20 and change. Today, it's around 1200 an ounce. Just do the multiplication. You know, they wouldn't be taxing any of us until we hit a half a million or so today if that same matrix applied.
Now, you know what the top tax rate was? At 22,000, it started at 1%. And at a half a million, which would be like 60 million today, excuse me, 30 million today, it would be 6%.
And now the top rates are hitting 33, 34%. And that's not included in excise taxes, sales taxes, property taxes, state taxes, municipal taxes and other taxes that we pay that are indirect.
Because if you added all up, about half of our labor or more is committed to our labor being extracted from us. Something that fundamentally under our Constitution for the first 125 years was not legal.
It was involuntary servitude. It was slavery.
So we created a constitutional amendment so that we could all be slaves to the government and the European Parliament, a non-elected body, a group of people that nobody voted for, get to decide that, hey, it's not only a human right to rob you, something that was never, ever considered when you go back in history and really look at the issue.
Now let's talk about a little bit about what's going on in terms of the money as it relates to all this. Because when you think about the EU, they gave up the most fundamental aspect of their sovereignty when they adopted the Euro.
The Euro is a central bank. It's a group of bankers that are not elected, that are not. They're all appointed. And why is it important to control the money supply? Because ultimately, that is slavery.
When you think about what's happened, how does a bank collect? How does international bankers collect? They need to always make sure that there's a big adversary out there, the big boogeyman.
So if these guys don't pay, the other guys will collect. And that's what happens. You look historically on the entire banking system and that's what happens.
Why are the elite so determined to make Russia our adversary? And by way of disclosure, a lot of my dietary supplements I manufacture are sold in Russia, Ukraine, and throughout Eastern Europe and Western Europe.
So I want to make that clear right up front. But the point of the matter is why travel to Russia once or twice a year?
I know a lot of people in Russia. I meet a lot of people on the street. And people are mystified. I mean, totally mystified by all of it.
And the U.S. is using Syria as sort of the example of Russia's interference. You know that the United States has 850 bases and military installations around the world.
And off of Russian soil, I believe the only one they have is in Syria. I mean, come on. Get real.
You know, here we are standing up complaining about interference with elections when our government engages in what's called regime change.
We don't interfere with elections. We just go in there and wipe out countries if we don't like what's going on.
But the Russian people, and I don't believe Putin either, has an interest in reinvigorating the Cold War.
Now, international bankers do because they benefit by this. International arms dealers do.
And if you look at the U.S. budget, you look at the budgets of arm dealers around the world, this is the big money.
Back in the 70s when my dad was in Congress, he would complain about them then. And it was nothing like now.
He would complain about them because they were always ready to hand out donations, contributions, before there were very many rules.
And I remember in one of the restaurants, the restaurant on Capitol Hill, my dad and his main chief of staff was there.
And one of the big lobbyists was there. And in those days, you could transfer cash.
So he's sliding over the money. And my dad holds it up in the middle of the room and goes, wow, what an excellent contribution to my campaign.
And this guy is like hiding under the seat because my dad disclosed.
You know, he didn't play those games. And he didn't have very much respect for a lot of the people in the industry because it was transparent to him that their interest was selling weapons systems and maintaining a Cold War.
These are the same people influencing the maintenance of a Cold War today. Look at Hillary Clinton.
How much money did she get from the arms industry? Go take a look. You know, she took money from whoever was handing it out through her campaign efforts, through her husband's foundation.
You know, go back in history to when the Clintons were still in Arkansas and Bill was governor.
He left Arkansas with a pile of lawsuits and broke. And now he's managing a foundation with over a billion dollars.
Hundreds of millions contributed from foreign governments, foreign corporations and people who want something.
These aren't done out of the goodness of people's heart. These are done to buy influence, outcomes and to be able to impact our political system through these so called foundations.
They should be illegal. Presidents, when they leave office, they should get their pension and that's it.
You know, their speech should be allowed, sure, but no million dollar fees. You know, these guys aren't worth a million bucks.
They want to raise the million bucks, has to go to 501c3 charities who don't get to participate in politics, right?
I mean, that's the way it works. You're a 501c3, you don't have political speech.
And this is one of the big games international bankers and the tax code is played.
So very wealthy people think they're doing good. They put their money in these foundations, but those foundations are neutered.
They don't have the ability to speak on political issues. This is fundamentally flawed.
You know, free speech, weighing in on those things that are important, these are critical, critical elements that we cannot forget in the 21st century.
We need to remember the fundamental constitutional values that our founding fathers put in force here and make sure that in this century, they come through loud and clear.
Stay on the tip of the spear on infowars.com. We'll be back after these brief messages. This is Dr. Nick Package.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60-plus products, we have an InfoWars Life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock. The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglinone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it. Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine 4-5 toothpaste
is super blue silver immune gargle. That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it. It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver, and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it. So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake,
but it's other people that aren't awake. It's so essential to spread the word. Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at InfoWarsLive.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLive.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLive.com. Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfoWarsLive.com.
I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.
Thomas Jefferson.
I want to mention a couple of things.
A lot of us get locked in to the information sources that feed and promote our own ideas and our own values.
But I challenge every listener to look at what the opposition is saying. It's something they don't do.
It's how come they were so shocked? Why the left was so shocked when Donald Trump won? Because they were only reading the news feed that felt good.
It's good to know what the opposition is thinking. I make a point daily to at least look at the New York time headlines.
So I know what the story is from the left.
I also look at a publication called Technology Review that comes out of MIT.
It's definitely institutional, but it gives you the trends in technology and how they're going to shape and change the world.
It's extremely important publication.
The other one that is a total insider elite publication, you can get it at any library.
It's expensive to subscribe to. It's called Foreign Affairs.
And if you want to know what the elite is planning for you, read it.
And it gives you their game plan. It's a Council of Foreign Relations publication, the Trilateral Commission's publication.
This is what they send to all of their members.
They're basic propaganda. And it's important because you see it reflected all through the mainstream, all through the major networks.
One of the other ones that I take a look at, of course, is my local paper.
And the other is something called Nexus News Feed, which is an internet newsletter that comes out every day.
It has 15 subject areas. All of the alternative stuff, from health, from metaphysical stuff, whatever the big talk is of the day,
the Nexus News Feed is really excellent just to get an idea of sort of what everybody is talking about within a number of subject areas.
But these are great publications. They give you a broader view.
So we're not just always reading and studying the things that are obviously our focus, but it gives us a more balanced look
so that we can debate the lab by understanding where they're at, where they're coming from, and where their holes are, and their arguments.
And this is fundamentally important.
I've talked on this network before about this issue of tolerance.
I don't like the idea of tolerance, and everybody goes, what do you mean? How could you not like tolerance?
No, because tolerance is an act of violence against yourself.
Think about it. How it's translated in our modern culture as it means you shut up.
You don't speak your truth. You don't speak what it is you truly believe.
That is not the right way.
Embrace the right to be different.
Embrace the right of others to render an opinion that differs from ours.
This is not tolerance. This is called acceptance of the fundamental right of free speech and free expression.
When we do that, we listen, we hear the arguments, and we have an opportunity to either learn from those arguments
or feed into the discussion information that's useful so we get somewhere.
And it's not polarized, and it's not about withholding our truth.
It's one of the reasons I like working with this network.
I know I'm working with a group that speaks from here, from their core, what you believe, and you're willing to defend it.
That's what the American debate is about. That's what the American way is about.
You know, I think about all the different folks I've met over the years.
And I've been doing this now 25 years, quarter of a century.
I met Alex when he was first starting and he was doing work about the same time I was getting started in public work.
And he was on public access TV. That was his main thrust then.
And look what you have built together with Alex Jones.
Everyone listening has contributed to building the biggest network of alternative news, political news in the United States.
Bigger than NBC's website, take a look at the Alexa ratings.
Bigger and more links by 40% than NBC has.
This tells you something.
5 million listeners, maybe 70 million worldwide before they started hacking this thing up.
But you know what? It will backfire.
You're going to see this come back.
And it's going to come back with a fury because Alex has a right to a voice.
This network has a right to a voice.
And more importantly, every listener has a right to that voice.
And if people don't like it, it's very simple. Change the channel.
It's as simple as that. Don't turn the guy off. Just change the channel.
That's what I do when I'm listening to CNN after about three minutes. I change the channel.
And it's simple enough for us to do.
When I think about the direction in which the country is headed, we're going into the midterms.
It is absolutely critical that every vote be registered this time around.
If we don't hold the majority and see a majority held by conservatives within the U.S. House, we're back to gridlock.
Or I would say this, if it does change, you're going to see more legislation pushed through by a lame duck session of Congress
than probably ever has been done in history.
Because there's a lot of work to be done. And I know President Trump has the barrels full in terms of moving that legislation forward.
And I'm sure the leadership in the House and the U.S. Senate do as well.
We have an opportunity to change the direction of this country. These midterms are critical to doing that.
Every day they beat up President Trump. And a lot of the issues they beat him up for are things that everybody knew before the election.
And certainly it would be nice sometimes to have someone a little more polite in their speech.
But that's not what the American people wanted right now.
And quite frankly, it's not what we needed.
We needed a guy who was carrying a baseball bat.
And we got one.
We needed a guy who was a little bit pushy.
We needed a guy who would stand up and speak loudly for America's interests regardless of what anyone else in the world thinks.
And it was long overdue. And there he is with that bat.
And you know what? He came out swinging and he's still swinging.
And people would look at the track record of success with this president, lowest unemployment.
Highest employment rates for blacks, Hispanics and minorities ever.
Best opportunities for business.
Businesses are thriving.
Wait until we see the tax receipts from all of this.
Because foreign tax is being collected now on U.S. companies.
That's coming in.
You know, when we get to the year end and we see the full count of economic growth, of taxes paid in,
of small businesses and business owners growing, wages increasing, inflation is still down,
interest rates are still down, although the Federal Reserve would like to screw that up.
You know, we have the best economy we have ever seen.
We saw the tax reform act, the repeal of the Obama mandates, all within the first two years.
Look back on Obama's record.
At this point in his first presidency, his first term, he didn't have near the positive ratings of Donald Trump.
Yep, he's abrasive.
Yep, he can be rude.
Yep, he can poke you in the eye.
And America needed somebody to poke a few people in the eye.
And we've got the guy at the helm doing exactly that.
You know, in my family on election day, my eldest son and I were voting Trump.
And the rest of my family, our liberals were voting Hillary.
And they could not believe it.
And we knew.
We knew that day.
I knew the day that he filed.
I said, you know what?
He's going to win the Republican primary.
And he knocked out 16 of the top Republicans in the country.
And won.
And why did he win?
Because he was the voice America wanted.
They didn't want to win.
They didn't want someone backpedaling and leaning backwards every time somebody came at him.
They needed somebody tough.
We needed somebody to look our allies in the eye and say, act like our allies.
And to look our adversaries in the eye and say, we will not back down.
And that's what we've got.
This network represents that.
Support every aspect of this network.
Take advantage of the Labor Day specials.
This is Dr. Nick Faggich.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from infowarsstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodide on as well.
infowarslife.com or triple-A2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
