It's now only 63 days until the most important election in world history, even the globalist
in their establishment.
Publications admit that the entire course of the planet, nationalism versus globalism,
could be determined by Trump continuing the return of America as a proof of concept system
to compare against the nightmare of globalism.
It's already September 4th, 2018.
The major campaign season has gone into high gear.
We've got the Supreme Court nomination hearings going on right now and tomorrow.
The Senate Intelligence Committee is set to call for the repeal of the First Amendment
and my crucifixion.
Quite a time to be alive.
And you notice that I reached out to the Intelligence Committee, I reached out to the last committee,
I reached out to people I know in Congress, and I said I would like to come and be asked
questions.
I would like to come on the record and explain how the censorship works.
You know, Diamond and Silk are very funny and very smart, but they haven't been running
media and tech operations for years like I have, and I can break down with the documents,
the admissions, everything, the censorship, how it's unfolding, and the big campaign issue
that Republicans should be seizing on, thank God you beat the drum, I beat the drum, Drudge
beat the drum, Breitbart beat the drum, and now other conservatives are awake, other
nationals, other free speech people are awake, and we have a real shot, ladies and gentlemen,
at stopping this and really getting a handle on it.
There's a new Ben Garrison cartoon out, we can put behind us if you want, that shows
the so-called blue wave, but Trump says that the beach is closed, and many Democrats are
panicking and admitting that it looks like it's going to be a red wave, but ladies and
gentlemen, here's the problem, they're not going to stop.
CNN really is officially the criminal news network, they publicly organize in corporate
harassment groups to kill our sponsors, to get kicked off big tech platforms, the New
York Times, all these are just weaponized systems, they're not even fake news.
And an example of this, I'm going to document for you later, I already shot a Twitter feed
earlier, it's raining really hard, didn't have my umbrella came in out of the rain, ran
into a quick video where I showed the analytics of how we have the highest traffic we've ever
had and a new high average even after the banning and we were the top story in the country.
And by the way, infowars.com is only part of what we do, newswars.com, all the other
systems.
And so they have fake news everywhere that we're being shut down, that it's all over,
to scare everyone else and to demoralize you just like a foreign military, that's what
the globalist are, they're basically chai-com operatives, that's not rhetoric, saying Alex
Jones said bans would strengthen him, he was wrong.
Well, it was about 45 minutes ago, so I think it should be over here in the computer because
I just went, or I'll walk across street and I'll go live again.
In fact, I tweeted it out at Real Alex Jones, the proof that we put that tweet up, I tweeted
it out and I went and showed you on the interface in Tim Vergea, one of the manager's offices,
because IT wasn't in yet, all the IT and I walked in and I said, pull up Google Analytics,
boom, highest traffic ever in the last month, showed you two-year, three-year graph, even
back towards the election.
Now there it is.
Now this is what we're talking about here.
And of course Periscope doesn't show you full shots, so you guys have to click on the video
to show it, yeah, there it is, highest traffic ever, that peak right there is right now.
So this is what we're talking about here and they know this and I told the New York Times
this and I told them all that, but they don't care, they want to lie to you, it's what they
do.
But I want it in HD because I know the team's over there, I'm going to go to rebroadcast,
I'm going to walk over, I'm going to get, I'll do screenshots myself, I'll do it myself,
I'll do it all.
Don't worry.
I'm going to stand down and die under the globalist.
It's not happening.
So I'm going to show you all that coming up too.
I'm going to go to rebroadcast for a while, but I'll be back.
So infowars.com, newswars.com, this is an incredible time to be alive, unbelievable
things are happening and these people are just your enemy, they hate America, they are
congenital frauds, they literally have been trained to hate the country and to hate you
and your family.
They are the enemy of the American people.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the big island
rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
And more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Certainly for some, Alex Jones can be scary and abrasive, but if you can get through all
that to explore what he's been saying, to see for yourself what it is that the establishment
wants to hide from you, then the information you find could be life changing.
He predicted 9-11.
And if there was an outside threat like a bin Laden, who was a known CIA asset in the
80s, he's the boogeyman they need, and this were a welly and phony system.
He exposed the cremation of care ceremony at Bohemian Grove.
He educated us about the relationship between the Third Reich and modern globalism.
He helped reveal the so-called Bilderberg group at all.
He was the loudest voice reporting on the union between the Communist Chinese and Silicon
Valley.
They falsely edited him.
They lie about his reporting of Sandy Hook.
They lie that he pushed a child down in a viral video.
And now he's being deplatformed by Facebook, Apple, and Google.
Private companies are being harassed and encouraged to stop doing business with him.
Then we get hit and say, you can no longer use our software.
YouTubers are being censored for talking about him.
We just got taken down by YouTube.
They just killed our stream.
Really?
Yep.
And some Americans are actually celebrating this.
This is America in 2018.
Will you sit by and allow liberty and freedom to be taken away right before your eyes?
Will you do nothing while history is being recorded?
Will you sit and do nothing?
Or will you do your own research, discover the truth, and stand for freedom?
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
You know, football coaches get mad and yell and scream at their teams, and that scene
is manly and good because football is really important.
For basketball coaches, throw chairs, and boy, that's a good thing, because they want
to win this.
March Madden is so bad, and I see men get so upset and so focused over that.
That's their instincts to win in life and in business and to defeat their enemies that
are trying to usurp them and their families.
That's where that energy comes from, and it becomes this facsimile when men do it over
things that don't matter.
We're having our whole birthright.
Our whole system, who we are, is being stolen.
The decision had been made by Hillary and the globalist to move to China, to add Apple
and Google and Facebook, help round up the political dissidents.
Congress won't even dare criticize the tech giants for the incredible crimes they commit,
and all of that is seen as a giant, stinking green light to then have the dying dinosaur
media before it fully collapses, commit one more service, go out and political attack
dog in organized task forces funded by major foundations and a stay-behind network established
in an executive order by Obama in his last month in office to go out and terrorize everyone
that supports Trump to manufacture lies, to pay people off, to lie, and to engage in total
organized crime.
Diggin' in is not the Communist News Network.
They are the criminal news network.
The New York Times is owned by a famously corrupt Mexican kingpin.
Bezos, all of these people, Washington Post, this is a bunch of oligarch robber barons
of our lifetime who believe, think that you're done and they can break your will, and it
makes me angry because these people are degenerates.
I mean, the New York Times hands out Pulitzer Prizes because, again, it's all concerted
with that stupid committee.
That would be like being given an award for Jeffrey Dahmer for his culinary wisdom, or
again, Hitler giving someone an iron cross.
I would never take a Pulitzer Prize.
I would never take a Nobel Peace Prize because you only give them to war criminals and murderers
and scum, like giving Nambla an award for childcare, North American man-boy love association.
This is a group of organized criminals that we have allowed to run rampant, paid off by
foreign banks and the chai comms, who have a religion of hating this country, and who
think that they have defeated you.
They think they've broken your will.
I tweeted video of the Google Analytics an hour ago.
It's on Real Alex Jones right now.
We're going to shoot HD later and put it up on screen for you, but this is off Twitter
of us having the highest visitors to infowars.com in the month of August we've ever had.
It's a new plateau level, highest new plateau level.
That is the reality.
That is what's going on.
They're trying to steal your birthright.
Document cam shot, please.
I now have the HD printout.
Now you look right there.
You see that?
That is the last year.
Boom.
What do you see?
That is almost twice as high as the previous peak and is almost twice as high as the election
peak of almost two years ago.
That ladies and gentlemen was 63 days out from the election.
Now that's from Google.
They've deplatformed us and they don't have their snoopers and a bunch of stuff, so I
went and showed our own analytics.
I said ours are about double last time I looked at it last week, and exactly the page views
weren't 102 million.
It was 200 something million just like my memory said on the tape, and I walk in the
other office, they pull it up, and it's exactly what I said.
It's double what Google says, which is right at double our previous all time high in November
of 2016.
But what does the New York Times say?
The murderers of truth.
The people that handed down the death sentence for millions of Iraqis, not once but twice
with the babies and the incubators and the PR firm and the yellow cake and the yellow
tubes and all of it, oh, they always apologize after.
Like saying you're sorry for killing the Native Americans 150 years later, Alex Jones said
bands would strengthen him.
He was wrong.
They give something called tuble wooble or something I never heard of, and they say Jones
is down 50% to send a message to you to demoralize you and to make you shut up and think the
resistance is losing.
All of this is done military style.
You know, let me just give everybody a little bit of a news flash.
We're bringing in record amounts of money.
But the enemies ratcheted up record expenses, so I need a lot more.
And I've been honest about that.
All they had to do was tune in to hear the honest thing that we've doubled our overall
hardcore daily audience.
But we're killing us on reaching new people, which is what they really want to do.
I told you weeks ago what was going on.
Do you want to see the fricking analytics?
My God is telling the truth.
My religion is respecting you, and that means telling you what I really think about you
when you're wrong.
And I feel disgraced in the human species that they can find so much traitorous trash
that's been brought up in this country to man the fake news media to destroy the truth
and engage in fraud and try to bring in dark age level authoritarianism.
So here it is.
Right here.
Alex Jens.
We talk like Alex Jens said bands would strengthen him.
He was wrong.
So a woman talks like her soul was shut down.
And then you go through all this crap, and that's what it is.
And there's all these headlines.
Oh, look at this one.
New York Times lobbies Facebook to shut down private info wars fan pages.
They say you're harboring other people.
Get them off.
And there's all these other headlines to Alex Jens claim that the more he's persecuted,
the stronger he gets.
Nope.
That's the week.
All lies.
All lies.
All fraud.
I'm not the one that's strong.
It's our audience that's strong and it stood with us and thank God for you because our
audience knows they are info wars and they're next.
Health disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier
I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sown
American made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans
offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com, that's g-u-s-s-e-t dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media Outlets like the
one you're listening to in Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-paid patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Make up America, Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need
in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused
with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine, get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support
the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
The Real Red Pill Plus ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest fan favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, it's going to become one of our fellow
info warriors' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Reedy Extract and Ramate
Leaf Extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and
body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
The year is 1995, and Infowars launches the last of America's counter globalist probes.
In a freak mishap, Infowars.com and Alex Jones are blown out of their trajectory into an
orbit which freezes his life support systems and returns Alex Jones to Earth 25 years later.
Transdimensionally, over the space time continuum through full space.
Where people are extremely lazy, the social engineers are there laughing.
What we envisioned 100 years ago, 20 years ago, is now real.
While the society unravels, men run around totally frantic, not knowing how to be men,
and women run around frantic, not knowing how to be women, and they don't understand
that it's an animating contest of life and that it's fulfilling to be informed.
It's fulfilling to be involved.
It's fulfilling.
Infowars, tomorrow's news, today.
You know, it's fun to have a little joke, we're almost like that, isn't it?
But more and more we can't have fun around here because we're in a true time of war.
Foreign multinational companies allied with the communist Chinese, I can't believe I'm
saying this, it's all true.
They're publicly destroying the First Amendment, brainwashing children against their parents,
using me as the template example in public schools across the nation in a federally directed
program by rogue agencies in the federal government run by the CIA and Senator Mark Warner.
And it's all public.
It's all fact.
It's all admission.
I'm going to be shooting a briefing in the next few days for the president, and it's
going to be public.
I'm going to very professionally and calmly just go through the PowerPoint and the names,
the dates, all the proof, and then how to counter the globalist.
And there just aren't enough specialists in the government around the president, and there
aren't enough people that also have wide general knowledge, and if they do, they're scared to
take on big tech on the globalist.
They're all wanting to keep their heads down and just get some money and power out of this
thing, and they're hedging their bets.
You don't hedge your bets with cancer.
There's an article up on infowars.com with William Crystal, whose father was the head
of the Trotsky Group out of Russia.
When Trotsky got killed in Mexico, he took over and got command, Stalin sent a guy with
a axe to kill him, and the Trotskyites took over the Republican Party, and we finally
are getting them out of there.
And he's fantasizing on Twitter about arresting all the conservatives and putting us in reeducation
camps, and his friend saw him at the drug cleaners, and he said, we're going to put
you in one, too.
And it's all these other tweets of Democrats saying, yeah, we need trials of all these
people.
Well, what do you think they're doing to Trump?
What do you think they're doing to Roger Stowe?
What do you think they're doing to Manafort?
What are they doing to me with all these Democrat-funded lawsuits that all started a year ago?
They're making their move, folks, and they mean business, and they want to extinct your
way of life continually.
Their religion is running greater men's lives who don't want power, who don't want control.
That is their whole system.
That is what they're after.
That is what they want.
That is what they crave.
And you're going to have to decide to take action.
Look at the different tactics of your TV viewer for radio listeners.
I'll describe these.
Look at these.
This is a article out of Gizmodo, which is reporting on the Wall Street Journal.
There was a cover story this weekend about me.
For Jack Dorsey, overruled staff to keep Alex Jones' white supremacist Richard Spencer
on Twitter, and the Wall Street Journal did the same thing.
It's all meant to associate me with a white supremacist.
It's the same tactic.
Let's look at the next article.
There's hundreds of these today.
Twitter admits Alex Jones broke its rules, still standing by their man for some dumb
reason.
Another Gizmodo article.
It shows the police holding my arms, Antifa had just attacked me and the police.
They were protecting me and took me out of the crowd.
But they run that photo everywhere, now calling for my arrest, saying Jones needs to be arrested.
He's calling for violence.
They don't show where I call for violence, and they show this photo or video of this
at the RNC when Antifa attacked me.
Again, it's not about me.
It's the fraud of these people.
New York Times lobbies Facebook to shut down private infowars fan page.
Corporate media now wants to control what individual citizens can post online, not content with
infowars now as Jones having been banned on nearly every major social media platform.
The New York Times is now lobbying.
That's what a so-called journalist group does, to have Facebook delete a private infowars
fan page.
In an article entitled Facebook's Private Groups Offer Refuge to Fringe.
Oh, my God.
Don't allow a fringe.
No, it's because it's actually popular.
The New York Times, Kevin Roos, reveals how a private infowars Facebook group, more than
$110,000 members, has survived the crackdown.
He actually calls it a crackdown.
They don't even hide it's an authoritarian crackdown.
They're now on the news saying, don't even let Jones have a website.
Take his credit card processors away, and it's happening to mainly Jewish groups that
are conservative are having their sites taken away.
Roos goes on to accuse the group's users of posting the sort of content of hateful attacks
against Muslims, transgender people, and other vulnerable groups.
Oh, see, not the big media bullying American patriots.
No, no, no.
We're the bullies.
They got Mr. Jones suspended while proving zero examples of such content, which, you
know, we say, don't sexualize children, and they go, oh, my God, you're anti-gay.
Well, I don't care what's heterosexual or homosexual, keep away from kindergartners,
tell them they're another sex, or tell them about, you know, yeah, yeah, it's called
pedophilia.
But if you're against pedophilia now, they just say that, which you're like, whoa, the
main LGBT websites attack me every time I'm against an AMBLA, and then say I'm attacking
them.
You're the ones that are protesting too much.
To quote Macbeth, I mean, you're the ones aligning yourself with pedophiles, not me.
So it's going to be the LGBT community, and you see Hollywood and you see it all.
Very, very shameful.
I'm a libertarian.
And by the way, I've been around the block.
So the idea that I hate people because women like women or whatever, that is absolutely
asinine.
And that's you trying to act like your victims when I've done nothing to you.
And the fact that your sites lie about me and sign on to the LGBT P operation is shameful.
He then admits that he is personally loving Facebook to have the page shut down.
And that's what the New York Times and all of them do.
That's what CNN does.
It's criminal.
But then they've got Oliver Dorsey at CNN calling for me to be banned everywhere and
lobbying to do it.
And then turning around and going, Trump claims and other conservatives claims their censorship
of people.
It's not happening.
It's preposterous.
The insulting of you and your intelligence is fancastic.
And again, the New York Times, what do they say?
They say my traffic is cut in half.
My traffic is cut in half.
Really?
Here's our traffic.
Document cam shot, please.
Or put it on screen.
I think we have the HD in there.
That is right at double.
In fact, I think we have it on the screen there, we can pull it up in HD.
Show that.
Zoom in on that at that peak.
And then our new peak is a little bit above like five, 10% above our normal, you know,
just floor.
And we're moving into newswars.com and prisonplanet.com and other sites that have better platforms
for redesign and force.
But that's what happened during the ban.
And now we're at 5, 6, 7% above what we normally are.
We're trying to push most of the traffic to newswars.com and Europewars.com and all the
rest of it.
So great job, folks, spreading the articles.
You're crushing their attempt at censorship.
So they're panicking, wanting to declare that their crackdown on the First Amendment is
a success.
What a group of admitted authoritarian dirtbags.
What a group of criminals.
What a group of slime.
You've heard the phrase, you are what you eat, not true.
Actually you are what you can't absorb.
So if the vitamins and supplements you now take are not being absorbed, what good are
they?
Introducing Protovite, a proprietary liquid system that allows premium quality nutrients
to positively affect the blood in an astonishing five minutes.
Watch our amazing two minute live blood cell video at truehealthfacts.com.
That's truehealthfacts.com.
Then call 502-410-3411.
Protovite is nutrition you can feel.
Protovite is nutrition that gets in.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to nine
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better, and can even boost energy.
The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Watch your Dillon Bottle today at dyln.co.
That's dyln.co.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infostore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists, and
their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
In which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
We knew it was coming, the whole thing was for me like, first demonize info wars, lie
about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake
strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia,
and then voila, two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top 5 or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, Fortslash Show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, Fortslash Newsletter, and give us your emails so that
we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform, but
whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, Fortslash Show, how they can download the
free Android and iPhone apps, and how they can then reach out to others with the information
going out, this is the verboten info, this is what they don't want you to see.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
Well Brett Kavanaugh is in his hearing for Supreme Court nomination, he's got the votes,
the Democrats are totally panicking because we're taking control of the country legally
and lawfully and it's coming back from the dead, 4.6% growth rate, some estimates projected
to be as high as 4.8, I can tell you right now that in private meetings with Cudlow and
others, Trump wants to by the end of his first term have a 10% growth rate, and when they
tell him that he can't have that, he says, why has China had that on average for 30 plus
years?
Why did we have that until the early 70s for 100 years?
I don't want to hear what we can't do, I'm telling you what we're going to do.
They get the growth rate up to 6%, they can pay down that deficit, you name it, they've
already slowed the growth of the debt.
Oh, but the demoralizers at the New York Times, remember all their different economists?
They said you'll never hit 3% ever, ever, ever, because we're not going to let you.
I don't want to make this broadcast about me, we've got some of the highlights of the Democrats
flipping out and trying to block the beginning of the event, and they later admit that Chuck
Schumer's behind it, he's even behind a lot of the bad comedy on the late night, no, they
admit that the big three national comedy guys that still have someone of an audience,
they get calls from the Democrats and from Schumer almost daily about what he's going
to talk about, think about that.
So the reason I got really angry this morning, even before I got on air, is they are engaged
in double-think from 1984, where they say we're censoring all the conservatives, all
the libertarians, we want to take them all off, U.S. senators, Democrats say we want
hundreds and hundreds if not thousands of sites taken down, Senator Wyden, Warner, Murphy,
they tweet this, and then it's the sense of injustice, not for me, but for my children
and your children, that even in the worst periods in this country's history, if they're
having hearings about somebody and talking bad about them with the congressmen and women
and the CEOs and lying about them, though that person gets to be there or they have
another day of hearings, I'm not there, Paul Watson's not there, my crew's not there,
and they're going to have more hearings in the Intelligence Committee.
The last time they did that in the Intelligence Committee in the House and in the Armed Services
Committee in the House, this is in the Senate, they literally said that I'm a Russian agent.
They've played the clips there probably a hundred times.
Think about that.
In the last hearings they had, right before they banned me five weeks ago, in the House
Judiciary Committee, they said I was a racist, they said that I said nobody died at Parkland
and I was bullying poor little David Hogg, none of that's true, you know it's not, and
Sandy Hook stuff that they keep bringing out and twisting and exaggerating and amplifying
and then saying I'm doing it, and they called for me to be banned, and a week and a half
later I was banned.
And now they're calling, the very Democrats are in the news, for me to be completely banned
and anybody else that supports Trump.
These people are flaming authoritarian, anti-free speech crooks, this should be the biggest scandal
in the country.
But only Trump sees it and says it's criminal and dangerous and that they're doing it to
millions of people which they are.
And you're going to sit there and watch those senators in that Intelligence Committee, him
and Ha and try to say, now the Russians, this is what you're supposed to do, now the Russians
they hit both parties, right, yes sir that's right, the Russians are pounding everything,
my God, we had a million bot hits, a million bot hits, a five year old can do that.
Facebook has hundreds of billions of bots out there continually, so does Google.
They got all your records in live time, everything, the Russians can hardly wipe their ass compared
to the globalist.
And excuse my French there, but this is a joke, 80% of the bots in the campaign on
Russia were PR firms hired by the Democrats to do stuff, says they get around campaign
finance laws, you do it in England, France, everybody's got it.
Member Michael Moore went to a protest after Trump got elected that was bot controlled.
How do the Democrats get around campaign finance law?
They go by bots and the one thing is the Russians aren't one of the biggest groups doing online
marketing and botting, but they will do criminal stuff, it's true, they will steal your credit
cards, there's a lot of criminal activity based in Russia, and so you can hire them
to do anything you want.
And so there are some Russian bots over here and they're mainly Democrat.
So again, that's the truth, but I don't pay for bots, I don't hardly pay for any advertising.
I did AdRoll and then I did Critio to put our ads out there on the internet on Drudge
Report and other places and they took it away from me.
I'm not even allowed to advertise on the internet our products to be able to fund this operation
to try to save the country.
I sure as hell am not a Russian bot.
I may have to go off here, I'm so angry I'm going to start screaming and yelling because
let me tell you something folks, I demand to face my accusers, I'm sick of this, I'm sick
of you being accused when you're a patriot of being a Russian or a globalist when it's
the globalist that are the enemies.
And then our traffic goes to all-time record highs, our support is record high but just
a little bit above the election and our expenses are much, much greater, so you could technically
argue we are not in the best financial shape we've ever been in.
But technically more money's coming in than ever before and technically we've got more
traffic than ever and it's pure organic traffic.
They've already game the Google algorithm to block us, they've already shadowed bandits,
they've already outright bandits, they've already hit us with everything they got and
because of you supporting us we're still standing and they don't know what to do.
They want to kill my character and demonize me ahead of you know what and I'm not going
to talk about it on air.
I got a family and they don't like hearing it.
I'm not worried about me, I'm serious, I'm worried about everybody them winning.
If the globalists are able to do this and they've shown they're more authoritarian than
I even thought.
They've shown they'll take the gloves off and do criminal stuff and admit in thousands
of pages of articles today, it's everywhere, Ben Alex Jones totally shut him down arresting,
crush everybody, ban everybody, authoritarianism and then they have these committee hearings
and we'll hear about Russians.
It ain't the Russians taking our free speech, now listen, you want to support us, I need
to bring in a lot of money.
I had some other initiatives set up that they're really scared of that if I launch them are
going to be huge.
Just like everything we've done has been a massive game changer.
They know the deep state knows that we've got the zeitgeist, we've got the Arthurian
sword, we've got the Black Arrow, use whatever lore you want, they know we've got the connection
to victory and they fear me, period, they fear the fire, they fear the spirit, I'm not
bragging but I've got a spirit of victory and a spirit of America and a spirit of loving
God and I know these people are the enemy, I see them and spirit is like fire, it spreads.
And my fire is contagious, your fire is contagious and us together realizing our power through
God and our historic will and our birthright as Americans is the authority to be in control
of this planet and that's why the globalists have come here to steal that birthright and
give it to their father, the devil.
That's why I need you to go to infowarstore.com and get the highest quality fish oil, krill
oil and fish oils for your children on a roll specifically designed.
That's why you need to get ultimate Bro and Broth formula and bodies, whole body, tumor
and ultimate support, 95% trachumenoid, nobody's got stuff at this level just like our info
and it's all 40% off right now infowarstore.com.
Fueling your body is hard work, that's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right, combine flora life everyday maintenance and
carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients
you receive, there's no better way to power your body.
Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains, when paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you
break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins
and stay fueled all day, these incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top
shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins, there's no better time to
try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body, don't miss out
on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery, try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive
Pack today.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough, that's why Info Wars Life has created a powerful
new addition to the super blue line, super blue silver immune gargle, available in 1
ounce, 3.5 ounce and 16 ounce bottles, immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen
or wherever you go, the incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily
use whenever you feel like you need to stay clean, as a powerful hand purifier or oral
cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded
by toxins, with powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative, with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin
free is easy and affordable, helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super
blue silver immune gargle only available at infowarslife.com, that's infowarslife.com.
Info Wars Life is launching its newest product, we're really really proud of it, it's a best
source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and
fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and
for regularity and so much more, and it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture
for a life as well as myco zx that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the
gut, so this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products, you get them separately or together and make really really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time, and I'm doing this to introduce these
products to you, bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we
can come up with, it's sold out for another month and a half, we sold it at 50% off till
it's sold out, and I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber, get yours today
in
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra-pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in
order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in
the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow
metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2
and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take
control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I was listening to this song this morning and made me think of America.
I'll show some of the George Strait here.
I've been a few times I thought about selling out, but even that idea haunts me.
I could even think about that years ago. I'll never leave America now. I'll never
back down. I'll never bend my knee. Now it's so clear how evil these people are.
We were right all along. We're gonna win, folks, but it's gonna be rough. Why do you
think all this scum, all these globalists trying to bring down the country, they
don't have the birthright? They want to dominate the globe. They want to dominate
humans. If we can take back the country, we can stop the carnage that's already
happening that's gonna get a lot worse. The cost is so great if we don't do the
right thing now. And we're not fit to be in God's company. And so right now is the
time for you to decide which side you're on. I can tell you right now. I thought
in and out a song about an old love gone. I didn't think about any of my old
loves. Because this love is our ancestors and our children into the future and
everything we are in America, that old flame. Nobody in his right mind would
leave her. Nobody in his right mind would take free market and everything we've
had and rugged individualism and our adventures together and the good, the
bad, and the ugly and what we've sacrificed for and our ancestors have
sacrificed for and then throw it away. Nobody in their right mind.
You know people war game things in their mind and I think about how weak the
general public is. They've had so much freedom so long that can they be saved?
Can they be rallied to turn this around? Over the years, you know at 3 a.m. you
wake up doubting. I'm gonna put myself on the line, put my family on the line for
this. You get a weird form of guilt, but then your soul kicks in and God and the
Holy Spirit goes, your children have no future. If you let these people win, you're
on the right track. These people are really bad.
Cut up and go all the way. And now we've seen things begin to turn around. Now we
know humanity can wake up and can be energized and can be close to God again
and that we can do incredible things and now it makes it even that much more
valuable to know the striving of our species over all the eons on this planet,
the adventures we've been together, all of our ancestors together, focused into you
and I right now, us together. And just let these horrible people steal the whole
future and put microchips in us and dumb us down and totally social
engineers and poisonous. The tree of globalism is poisonous. The tree of
globalism is death. The tree of globalism is failure and dishonor. And my spirit
knows Trump's for real. You know it's real and you see he's for real. He's not
some fake Bible thumper up there telling you how good he is and telling you how
bad you are. He says, no, I'm a man, but I love free market and I love prosperity
and I love you and I believe in you and I don't want to see you be negative and I
don't want to see these people demoralize you and I believe in you. What he
says, I believe in you. I'm betting on you, believe in me. And if we'll just do
that, it's God's limit. It's the same thing with me. The globalists know they've
got a bio on me. They know my whole history, family history, everything.
That's why they fear me because they know I'm for real and they know that I carry
success just like you do, just like America does. And they fear that. They
fear that ignition. They fear that human will. You know there's two different
types of monarch butterflies. There's one type that takes several generations you
know to get all the way up to Canada and then they've got a big one that's three
times bigger than the other little monarchs that flies all the way back down
to Mexico to one little mountain region. Saw a great documentary on a few years
ago at IMAX. I already knew about it. It was amazing to watch and then they fly
all the way back up. You know they fly down, have their babies die and then the
takes generations, three generations for the little ones to get up and then the
big one pops out and it takes them back and that's what America is. We're the
big monarch that's going to carry humanity, the stars that God's going to use
to defeat the devil. Watch. I'm sure of it all now ladies and gentlemen and we're
now in that generation of the big monarchs. We've got to fly all the way from
Canada all the way down to central Mexico. This big beautiful forest region.
These big giant 500 foot tall trees and a lot of them drop out of the sky and die
on their way. They fall out of the sky. I've been in Texas and all of a sudden big
old monarchs start dropping out of the sky. I saw the documentary and I was like I
saw that one time when I was a kid. They didn't make it but some of them do make
it and they make it and they mate and they have babies and they die and then it
takes those little babies,
three generations in less than a year living their life cycle to jump to the
north and then the big guy pops and the big guy's got to come back down and
that's what this is right now. We're in that period. You're the big monarch.
You're the big butterfly. You've got to take it all the way down. You've got to
deliver it or the species dies. You can't drop the ball at this level. We're at
that in game time and the enemy knows we're turning the tide right now. They
know we're turning the tide. They can feel our spirit rising. It's scaring
them because it's what they want but what they don't have. We already have all
the innate power. We already have all of it. Keys of the universe. God already gave
them to us but we have learned how to drive first because this is driver's
head. God's just waiting right there past the driving test. This big blue
highway right there baby. Come on up. Just like that song you wrote Stranglehold.
Come on, come on up. Come on, come on, come on up. Come on, come on, come on. They
want to keep you down. Oh, America's bad. America never come back. America sucks.
America's weak. You suck. You're nobody. No, no, no. You're a victim group. You're
under our control. You just stay right there where you are. Oh, Alex Jones is a
failure. Oh, you're a failure. Oh, Trump's a failure. No, you just go down there.
They'll give you the look fluoride. How about some mercury? How about we brain
damage you so we can lure it over you? You know, they've got vaccine records that
have come out in the news of the most liberal and elite areas of the US. They
have vaccine maps, including in Europe of who's unvaccinated. Did you know that
rich leftist are 100% unvaccinated? Did you know in the military that none of the
officer corps takes vaccines? They had unenlisted officers all day.
Trump wants to stop all that. See, Trump doesn't need to brain damage you so he
feels better than you. Oh, I'm better than you. I brain damage you. See, I don't
need to cut your legs off to be strong. I'm strong. And, frankly, watching you
flounder makes me feel weak. All right, I'm gonna say it again. We have more
traffic. We've ever had an infowars.com only because you've been spreading the
links and overriding their AI and defeating them. And yes, we're bringing in a
little more money than we've ever brought in before. Why, frankly, we're
bringing in quite a bit less until this happened. I was really worried. I was
really flogging hard. Support us. Support us. Since the ban came, a lot of
capitals come in, but you can look into the future and things I want to launch
and things I don't want to talk about on air that are gonna be very effective
against the new world order. Believe me, this is more than a one-front war. It's
not things I want to do management-wise. It's not things monetarily I want to do,
but I got to do it. So if you want to see this mission continue and if you
understand they want to shut us down for a reason, then you need to financially
support us and I want to thank you all. I'm not shaming anybody. I'm thanking you
for so far supporting us, but you cannot put money into something that is more
aggressive against tyranny and Satanist and anti-human filth. There's no
organization more focused, more crazed. This is it and we've got products that
help you. I mean even mainstream media admits they have to that fish oil is the
best thing out there, but you want the pure fish oil. You want the mercury
removed. We have the best, strongest, cleanest you're gonna get anywhere. The
best krill oil, the best wild harvested from the fjords of the North Atlantic,
salmon, and the best concentrated and little pills for the kids, the honor
roll. Three different types. You cannot do better at infowarstore.com. Help the
brain, help the body, help the heart, help the info war. Win, win, win, win, win,
win. Non-zero, some game. Planetary expansion. Everything I do is about that.
And then we've got ultimate turmeric formula about to sell out bodies. That's
50% off. Bone broth. I'm about to cut that special this week.
infowarstore.com, enforcelife.com. I really appreciate you standing with us, but we
need massive capital infusions so I can energize the take on Soros and Hillary.
I need it!
Years ago, info wars life created the powerful micro zx formula to help you
combat internal yeast. As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the
environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to
help support your gut health. Micro zx plus is the result of the search for
that formula. A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural
cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better product to help your
body fight back. Micro zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in
the body, supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that
can cause you problems if it goes unchecked. Powered by an impressive list
of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract, poudarko bark and grape seed
extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time
as powerful micro balancing properties. Pick up a bottle of the new and improved
micro zx plus today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's
nutritional needs. With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you
may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and
minerals needed daily. That's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin
mineral fusion formula. The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin
formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize
the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body. Using a
proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a
delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded
with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more. Start
supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural, and affordable drink
mix with vitamin mineral fusion today. Available at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Regrets. I've had a few. But then again. Too few to mention. I did what I had to do.
Saw it through without exemption. I planned each chartered course. Each careful step along the
highway. More. Much more than this. I did it. My way. That's the great one.
Bringing us in Frank Sinatra. All right. I'm just gonna tell you this. You want to
tune into the show tomorrow. There's gonna be some big surprises. And folks know I
tend to tell you stuff right up front. I don't tell you big surprises unless there's
big surprises. So in fact, I never even contact Matt Drudge. I'm gonna be
contacting Matt Drudge after the show today. I'm gonna leave it that. So you're
gonna want to tune in tomorrow. So I wouldn't be surprised. Don't try to take me
out today. Yeah, that's something. If you know what was going on behind the scenes
and everything else, folks, this is such a real world event. This is America on its
deathbed. And then the globalist got sucker punched by the Patriot movement
and Trump and yes, people in U.S. government agencies. People go, well, I
thought the agencies are bad. It's Patriot groups in the agencies who knew
the plan to totally take over if Hillary got in, which you now see they're still
doing as if Trump is even there. Now I'm gonna go to this important boil down with
Walter Cronkite, pledging himself to the devil and more. And then we're gonna come
back and I'm gonna get into the big enchilada. Why are they shutting everyone
down? Had a huge epiphany last night. Wait till we break this down. This is show
critical. But remember, it's all up to you to get the word out. We are in process
of developing a whole series of techniques which will enable the
controlling oligarchy to get people actually to love their servitude. People
can be made to enjoy a state of affairs, which by any decent standard, they
ought not to intro me. I have to a better start from the beginning.
I have to a better start from the beginning.
I have to a better start from the beginning. Too many kids are what's
making planet worse. A lot of these kids come from bad gene pools. They don't have
stable parents making good decisions. Rectory containing vaccines may help not
harm kids according to two new studies in the journal Pediatric. These new studies
suggest that the opposite, that the preservatives may actually be
associated with improved behavior and mental performance. Fluoride in water is
supposed to fight tooth decay, but could it also cause cancer?
For example, the government had the right under US law to conduct secret testing on
the American public under a specific condition. We have to work the dark side
while we spend time in the shadows. Any attempt to achieve world order must be
the work of the devil. Well, join me. I'm glad to sit here at the right hand to
say there's a need for a new world order. Someday, in the next few years, it's
all the solution within them.
We'll be back, this is your life, this is the real world, this is decision time.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world, it's you that has defeated Hillary and the Globlest.
It is you, the InfoWarriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
You are listening to an InfoWars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
In the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, I can tell you right now, my spirit is at white-hot full power.
And only time that happens is just like Lord of the Rings when goblins are near, lights
up white.
Let me tell you, the Democrats know if Kavanaugh gets in and all this other stuff happens, the
economy's coming back.
Little Bird told me the actual new growth rate may be 4.85 percent in the next month
when they announce it.
I mean, they are in panic mode right now.
And they are going to pull out false flag attacks on the media to be blamed on yours
truly and others.
They are going to just get more and more vicious because if you look at the globalists, they
look like pedophiles and gripkeepers because they are.
I mean, this is a collection of the worst slime drawn like mods to flame to get control
of this republic so they can slowly torture the living daylights out of it.
It's the same spirit that wants to kidnap a three-year-old and torture it for a month
in a dungeon.
They call it sucking it up, sucking it dry, using it up.
Is it begs for mommy as the baby does?
That's their words as it begs.
So you'd understand the spirit of the New York Times singing in is a spirit that would
kidnap a three-year-old torture for a month's death.
And once you understand that that's not rhetoric, on my soul, that is who they are.
Then you know the pure enemy and how they hate you because you are not a spiritually
hunchbacked, ugly, satanic, blood-drinking demon because even though they can't all
carry out their fantasies, that's their spirit.
Does that make sense?
Now I could go through exhibit after exhibit and prove what I just said, but you already
know it.
So the sun is rising and the vampires are scared.
Metaphysical, energetic, spiritual and physical destroyers.
Parasites.
And it is a self-hate that they project onto us.
See, we love ourselves.
We love you.
You love us.
We love God.
We love potentiality.
We love seeing a great, good-looking, successful family that are nice people.
We don't feel bad because somebody lands in a cool helicopter or somebody has a bigger
house than us.
And we feel that as a collective wealth through our individualism.
Now I said I was going to give you the big news and I'm going to do it, but I am just
so on fire with victory right now.
I just don't know what to say.
Big stuff's happening.
I feel in my gut the enemy's being broken right now.
That doesn't mean that we are out of the woods, but I can also intellectually see how the
things they've done will never be reconciled with American people or anybody else.
I mean, America is not China with 5,000 years of slavery.
We're not Sweden, where they were naturally communal people so you can bring in a communist
system and control them.
The United States operating system, if you study it, there's a whole other discussion,
but to even try to hazard a quick summation of it would be blasphemous, so I'm not going
to do that.
But let's just say born of fire.
I'd have to say at the very heart of America's operating system.
It's very hard to say what's at the heart.
Should I even say what's at the heart?
The trap to which tyrants come to be destroyed, the hunter that hunts the corrupt kings.
Well they know what's at the heart of Texas, so the Scots, but it's too simple a statement
to say the Scots in Texas, because if you look at the Republic, it's a bigger picture,
but the Scots, now socialist, now broken, now manipulated, now self-loving, now in decline,
those aren't the Scots.
The Scots that came here were the Scots to escape the tyranny of 800 years of war that
they never gave in on, and then to have that ethos as the detonator with the English Renaissance
and the French Wildness and the Irish soul and the German power all fused with the Native
American mystery, and the black slaves' strength and desire for freedom.
That spirit fusing into something never before seen and never before dreamed of with Christendom
and the Reformation and the Protestant worth ethic with the Catholic ethos and just all
of those things coming together in the beginning, and then the adventures and the free-booting
and the war and the death and the creation, and all the groups never allowed to build
what they wanted or do what they wanted, turned loose and the patents and the ideas and the
trailblazing, the discovery.
That is America, and that is only its first chapter.
Not a chapter to be a victim in, but a chapter to rejoice that you come from such an incredible
place and such an incredible time.
Now, before we go any further, when I come back I am going to break down something so
incredibly important, and I hesitate to even get into it because it is the key to everything.
We know how to defeat the enemy, hands down we have it in our hand, we have the key, we
have to shove it in the door, turn the lock and know that something better is on the other
side.
So many men think CYA is the way to be somebody, and maybe if you wanted a bunch of crap and
have a bunch of kids that commit suicide and have a bunch of fake trophy wives, maybe having
the biggest house on the hill, the biggest jet boat, the biggest helicopter, being a
sellout was cool, but you are empty, none of you guys have any real power.
You don't have any real spirit and you know you don't.
You are playing it safe as almost destroyed us, but those timid souls aren't who I am
speaking to here today.
Crouch down and lick the hand that feeds you, may your chains set lightly upon you as Patrick
Henry said, all I can say is spread your wings humanity because the time is here, history
is now, there is no way they beat us at this point.
I just got a gut up and take my legs wherever they are, but it feels really good because
they think tearing me apart limb from limb is going to intimidate you, it's the blindness
because they think we're like them and spiritually they can't stop, but do it.
And so victory is very close within our grasp right now.
Now, let me stop right there.
If you don't fund this, they'll have fun destroying me earlier than I think I'm supposed
to be.
I know that launching key operations in the near future, but I will not name here on
air, but we're going to be extremely effective against the globalist legally and awfully,
and we'll ensure that we're unstoppable needs to happen.
But I do need to see a lot of capital, I need to see it right now.
We have products you need, go get a couple t-shirts, get some books, get some videos,
get some supplements, sign up for auto-ship on things you want to reorder like coffee
and supplements, 10% off on that, big specials are about to end, m4store.com, m4slife.com,
but whatever you do, keep praying for m4lwars and realize you're on the winning team and
just thank Christ for his guidance and he lead us and direct us and whatever you do,
tell folks about m4lwars.com and newswars.com and those local stations you're listening
to because this is an epic time to be alive and I am so honored to be here with you.
Stay with us.
When you use public Wi-Fi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords, that's why I use private
internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing
anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
Privateinternetaccess.com, it's time to protect your online privacy.
Hear that, that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the
place and what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine
disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99 BERKEY.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn
American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans
offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com.
That's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one
you're listening to.
And Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, Ultimate Bone Broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
With more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, Ultimate Bone Broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric
root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support
your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info Wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact
filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing
220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfoWarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House filtration system today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones here, back live, look at the front page of DrudgeReport.com and we'll pull up
NewsWars.com.
Woodward Book reveals nervous breakdown of Trump White House.
Well, yeah, there are a bunch of wimps fighting globalism, only Trump's strong.
Chief of Staff Kelly on President, he's an idiot, we're in crazy town, this is the worst
job I've ever had.
Well, that's because you're actually having to work and not just follow orders.
Let's go back to the headlines, I'm reading them, thanks.
Then continuing, Trump called sessions mentally retarded dumb Southerner.
Well, I love Southerners, I guess you could say Texas is Southern, but there are some
dumb Southerners, there's also some dumb Yankees.
Losses tempered during mock Mueller interview, plus there's audio now being released by Bob
Woodward.
We'll post it up on infowars.com, we'll play that later in the sour.
Owen Schreuer's joining us, we have some of the Cabinon highlights, the Democrats flipping
out, that's coming up at the start of the next segment here today.
But you know almost everything you see is a lie.
Almost everything they put out is a deception.
So remember that.
Because not all of what I just said is what's supposedly on Woodward's audio.
But Trump is an American, he's trying to restore the country and he knows the Democrats are
in bed with the Russians and the Chinese and everybody else and he gets mad like he should
instead of playing along with them and he's like, why is Sessions doing this?
Why isn't he?
Why are they indicting all these Republicans on campaign finance buying their staff meals
with campaign money, which is donated?
That's totally legal.
They're just interpreting it, it was the wrong expense account.
It's how they indicted Netanyahu's wife over a five-year period, a couple hundred thousand
shekels worth of the government chef bringing government food and cooking for private meetings
with world leaders at their house.
Yes, you heard me right.
In Israel, the government doesn't pay they claim for world leaders eating at Netanyahu's
house.
What?
I guess they don't have a White House for their president over there, their prime minister.
You love Netanyahu or hate him, Soros is on record saying he wants to overthrow Israel
and the Arabs will just kill each other forever over it.
Saudi Arabia doesn't take one person.
I got Owen Shor coming up about an exciting idea he has, but here's the deal, he's hosting
three hours today.
We're just going to have Owen on next hour, next hour, because I want him in here about
this but I need to get to this Trump thing and I keep getting distracted with all the
other news and things we just mentioned, it's all so insane.
So I'm not like holding up on this to keep tuning in and say, oh tune in, I'm going to
get to it.
It's just that there's all these points I want to make and I don't have a teleprompter
in order to click, click, click, click, click to make the key point I'm about to make straight
ahead because really it's a warning to the globalists and their own minions and a warning
to everybody else and I want to break down what's happening very succinctly and then
what's going to happen down different roads if they do remove Trump.
And then we're going to air in the last segment of the show are the Bob Woodward tape.
But first with the president, let's go to some of the highlights at the beginning this
morning with the Supreme Court nominee who the Democrats are panicking has the votes
when they totally melt down.
This goes on for like five minutes.
I'm going to play a few minutes of it.
It's insane.
And then later Durbin admits that the eruption hearing was planned by Schumer.
So this is what they're doing trying to disrupt our normal law, our system to stop what the
election stated would happen in 2016.
They had this country so close to ending it, but now their victories being grabbed away
from them and they are really upset.
Here it is.
It's the same kind of controversy and I see we're starting so I'll shut up.
It does look like we are about to gavel in.
There you go, Senator Chuck Grassley, let's listen in.
On the nomination of Mr. Chairman Brett Kavanaugh, Mr. Chairman to serve as Associate Justice
for the United States, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to be recognized for a question before we
proceed.
Mr. Chairman, I'd like to be recognized to ask a question before we proceed.
The committee received just last night, less than 15 hours ago, 42,000 pages of documents
that we have not had an opportunity to review or read or analyze.
You're out of order.
I'll proceed.
We cannot pause.
You're out of order.
Hillary had 35,000 illegal emails and foreign governments on it.
There's a drop box selling out our whole country.
She gave them the Office of Personnel Management hack and the chai comms.
You ought to all be in federal prison.
They'll give us your crap about 40,000 pages you made him give from his whole life and
everything else that got delivered.
When in other hearings, your people don't even do that.
You anti-American trash.
These Democrats are all programmed to hate America.
Let's continue.
We move forward, Mr. Chairman.
I extend a very warm welcome.
You have not been given an opportunity to have a meaningful degree on this nominee.
There are two daughters.
Mr. Chairman, I agree with my colleague, Senator Harris.
Mr. Chairman, we received 42,000 documents that we haven't been able to review last night
and we believe this hearing should be postponed.
I know this is an exciting day for all of you here and you're rightly proud of it.
If we cannot be recognized.
Let's pause again.
Back it up 10 seconds.
Look at all these Democrats.
They all look low energy, ugly.
They got a chip on their shoulder.
They're just scum.
And they all run decaying, collapsing blue areas with feces all over the ground and starving
people and gunshots and just because that's what they do, they just suck everything.
And it's all these hunchbacks like Schumer walk around like skexies.
Let's continue.
I know this is an exciting day for all of you here and you're rightly proud of it.
Mr. Chairman, if we cannot be recognized, I move to adjourn.
The American people.
Mr. Chairman, I move to adjourn directly from Judge Kavanaugh.
That guy's called for me to be removed off the Internet.
Blumenfall.
Just look at him.
Looks like an angler fish or, you know, something he just, I moved to adjourn.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Screw the election.
Let's keep going.
Mr. Chairman, I move to adjourn.
You'll never intimidate us.
We're done.
We're away now.
It's over.
We have been denied.
We have been denied real access to the documents we need.
Let's pause again.
3% beat King George.
We got like 30% awake right now completely.
It's game over, Dumbos.
It's all just begun.
You think you got big tech helping murder the Chinese slaves that you're going to run
us?
It ain't working, Jack.
Continue.
Which turns this hearing into a charade and a mockery of our norm.
Pause again.
Back it up.
Notice they're turning into a charade and a mockery.
And then they say that's what we're doing.
Continue.
Mr. Chairman, I therefore move to adjourn this hearing.
Okay.
This is the collapsing universities folding into America.
This is the collapsing universities where there's no free space.
There's all these weird spoiled brats at Play-Doh.
And I saw a pocket constitution.
Do you imagine these loon bags running stuff?
Free health care for everybody.
Finish wireless grade.
More coming up.
Stay with us.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to 9
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
That's the YLN.co.
That's the YLN.co.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At Heart and Body Extract.
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart.
Don't just take my word for it.
Check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
This is it.
Call 888-253-3139.
This new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info
war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
You want to stop tyranny?
Well, so does he.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
So we're in an epic time.
We have the mainstream corporate media bought and paid for by foreign banks, the Communist
Chinese, publicly now saying ban all conservatives, ban all Trump supporters, ban Alex Jones
from commerce, just absolute criminal authoritarianism.
Trials have even gotten to their own infowars.com and newswars.com where the Trotskyite, his father
ran the Trotskyite Communist Party, William Crystals calling for Republicans to be arrested,
put on trial, arrest everyone in the Republican Party, overthrow it with the Democrats, Democrats
calling for show trials.
I mean, they are an authoritarian criminal group.
They know internal polls show it's over for them.
You've got the New York Times lying and saying our traffic's the lowest ever and that we're
going bankrupt because they want to make that a self-fulfilling prophecy.
And most of them over there have actually studied it to the WikiLeaks.
They're like, most of them are into Alistair Crowley stuff.
It's like Oprah Winfrey, the promised stuff on PCP.
So they think if they just say it's happening over and over again, it makes it so like Hillary's
going to win 98% of the New York Times said, but here's the big announcement.
You've got Panetta, the former head of the CIA and the former head of the Defense Department.
You've got a bunch of other top Democrats and a bunch of other top establishment Republican
types like Hayden coming out and saying, don't impeach Trump and stop saying you're going
to kill everybody.
You're going to cause a massive backlash and this thing is blowing up here.
And if you remove Trump from office, he's right.
It's going to cause a depression.
An economic collapse.
And so we'll get the blame for this and it's going to cause a total civil war and you're
not intimidating conservatives and people.
You're only making them dig in and get more upset.
So you need to stop.
And it looks like the blue wave is going to be a red wave.
And even CNN had to admit that this weekend that Trump turns the GOP into a red wave.
So that's why they're hitting the panic button, trying to stop hearings.
It's why they're saying everybody's in the KKK.
Well, when you run around going KKK, KKK, ban all Alex Jones supporters from Facebook.
KKK.
It doesn't.
It's, it's, it's malarkey.
And so they've shown their hand.
They've gone too far.
Here's the problem.
The Brennan's and the Clintons and the Warrens and the Michael Moore's of the Democratic
Party and the Rob Reiner's, they say we want a violent war.
We want a confrontation.
And they've had CNN and MSNBC and others say this is a call to arms of both parties to
take down Trump.
Now they're not technically calling for violence.
As some conservative sites have said, when I say this is an information war, you know,
we're dropping bombs over the target.
That's why we're under attack.
It's a world war two analogy to, they didn't have radar back then.
They didn't have GPS.
They were, and they put smoke up over cities.
You can tell where the factories were, but you knew where the main flag was still tended
to be where the target was.
So they've all lied about me and said that I'm calling for violence.
When they're the ones saying, here's where the Republicans play baseball.
They have no bodyguards.
Hashtag hunt Republicans.
The guy that shot him wasn't a bad guy.
He was a hero.
That's CNN will blitzer.
They're the ones saying kidnap Trump's family, murder him, rape him, kill him.
So they're doing that.
But when a, at first I was like, well, they mean that as a figure of speech called arms,
but now it's a talking point called arms, called arms, which normally means all hands
on deck or, you know, really time to get serious.
But as eclipse coming up next segment, and we had the president with Bob Woodward really
saying, and this is a tape that Woodward's releasing, which I don't think he had authorization
to do.
I think Trump thought it was an author record conversation.
So again, you can't trust any of these guys.
And Woodward, he wants to be pertinent again, wants to be, you know, like he's important,
like he matters anymore.
He wants to take down another president.
So Trump's chewing into him in this tape saying, you know, I didn't say those things.
I didn't call sessions retarded.
I didn't say those things.
They're all tailored to cut his support in the South.
Everything that said, if you read it by Woodward and Trump's chewing into him and then Woodward's
playing dumb, but it's already happened.
It's breaking right now.
In full wars.com, news wars.com from the Washington Examiner.
This Trump lawyer, John Dow, denies quotes in Bob Woodward book.
So see why in the, by the way, I know Trump, just like in these conversations.
You hear him being very, very clean about what he says.
He would never say things like that, knowing everybody's recording him, even believed it.
You've got Bob Woodward, which describes him calling Trump a effing liar and cautioning
the president that he could end up wearing an orange jumpsuit.
This is all just meant for them to grandstand because again, they need to sell you.
Here's the big epiphany.
They need to sell you on taking down Trump being okay.
But no matter what they do, you know, they're liars and twisters and so it isn't working.
So then the question is, as the establishment figures out, it isn't going to work.
They've already hyped up the media and a bunch of other people to do this.
And it's gone into crazy overdrive that leads to a civil war between the people that actually
work in their heart and are strong and are focused and a bunch of unworking, stupid, lazy,
baby, victimology wimps.
And it's just a disaster situation.
I don't want to dominate Chuck E. Schumer and all of his bizarre, dumb, down, drooling
constituents that can't even find their ass with both hands.
I want them out of my life, but see, they won't get out of my life.
This is like the bad neighbor or the old girlfriend or whatever that won't go away,
except I was never a boyfriend of the Democratic Party.
And so it's extremely dangerous.
All over Europe, the Germans are about to go totally nationalist.
The Swiss, the Swedes, the Dutch, the French, the Italians, it's already happening.
It's over.
They went too far.
It's seismic.
And then they think if they can destroy Trump, and then they chose me too, because I have
Americana and have a spirit they hate and I'm not scared of them.
I was big and you were big.
You were important.
You launched Trump.
You're Americana.
Black, white, old, young, male, female, Hispanic.
You're great.
You love liberty.
You're red, white, and blue.
You're who they hate.
But they see me and the power you've manifested through InfoWars.com and NewsWars.com.
And the tens of billions of views and all the rest of it, they see that as the enemy.
So they think if they can destroy me, that will demoralize you.
They don't even know about people once they wake up and take the Alamo.
They figured it was a suicide mission.
Travis said, we're probably all going to die across the line.
Everybody stepped in, stepped behind it.
Nobody said no.
Everybody stepped across.
And the guy they sent out with a letter didn't want to be sent.
See, those were different people.
But when they killed everybody and even killed the four or five wounded prisoners, did that
make the Texans give up and go, oh my God, they killed everybody?
No.
Firebombed civilian targets, nobody had ever done that in modern war in London.
At first, he was targeting military bases and the Brits wouldn't give up.
But most of them are actually against the war, but they follow the government's rulings.
As soon as they firebomb the civilians, the polls went from 60% against the war to 99%
for it and the rest is history.
And so that's what I want to tell you is the left only think a few steps ahead.
They're manipulators.
They're scum.
They're low IQ.
They just cheat because that's what they do.
And things are going to get rough.
But I can tell you, if you stay vigilant, if you stay involved, if you stay focused, they're done.
I mean, this is going to be so decisive 10 years from now.
When we look back and we're dealing with AI and the Chai comms, there'll be big threats coming.
But domestic leftist traders selling us out to big banks and the Chai comms in Hollywood, Hollywood's
not going to be there anymore as you know it, it's all going to be gone.
And we're going to be like, thank God we finally fixed all that because, whoa, the next level is coming.
The drug resistant, you know, viruses and bacteria, the Chai comms, the collapsing third world.
We're going to have to get in there and fix that and prop those places up and really help those people.
The globalists have been, whoever they can, a sabotage.
So we got a hell of a job ahead of us and we better get going here.
But once we get these people out of our way, we're going to win.
The problem is they're moving hard and they're crazy and they mean to kill the president.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth.
One of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
Flora Life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora Life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
We're all in the top 5 or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com for a slash show.
Subscribe to the free podcast.
Just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com for a slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you
and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com for a slash show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out, this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an Info Wars Life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone.
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids.
So you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
So thank you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowarstore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
It's so essential to spread the word.
And again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow you'll want to tune into the broadcast.
I'm telling you that right now.
They're making their move, man.
The fact that mainstream corporate media is now going from saying ban Alex Jones to ban all conservatives ban all Trump supporters and then saying arrest everybody and just foaming at the mouth like this is just unprecedented.
They are so scared that America has gotten away from them.
And they think that if they intimidate you and kick you off Facebook or YouTube or wherever that you'll somehow then start groveling to them and they're a bunch of crazed anti free market anti prosperity jerks.
I'm sure it's coming up next hour and over the phones. I've got a bunch of clips from a cabinet testimony that's got them so upset they're having hearings tomorrow in the Intelligence Committee of the Senate that's headed up by these globalist and Senator Warner, who's calling all the censorship anti Russian propaganda operations.
Well, I could call him a Russian and say he should be put in prison.
The Democrats have bigger connections to the Russians than any Republican.
I have no connection.
So we're in America beyond McCarthy. He actually went after people that did have connections, but they got to come testify in Congress.
I don't get that, do I?
There's an 11 minute audio tape. It's on info wars.com Bob Woodward.
They haven't really said I've looked it up.
I believe probably criminally leaked this because a lot of this stuff's off record with Trump, but Trump's chewing into him.
This is a middle of last month about him reportedly lying about things he said people told him Trump said in his new book.
And so Trump is chewing him out.
And now we have people involved in this going public saying yes, I never told Bob Woodward this ex Trump lawyer John Dowd denies quotes in Bob Woodward's book.
More are now coming forward.
Ask if he disputed the accuracy of quotes attributed to him in CNN's report Dowd replied yes.
Ask whether he'd ever describe Trump as an effing liar, warn Trump he's at risk of orange jumpsuit, or describe Trump's interview, prep the Mueller.
And they go on to say yes, it's all a lie.
So again, ladies and gentlemen, that's how they operate.
Of course, they've already been caught lying thousands and thousands and thousands of times.
Why would you I mean CNN goes on and says no one censoring conservatives when they've led the move to do it.
The New York Times publishes that we have half the traffic we had a month ago.
This month we're up like 70%.
And we had days where it was double any record we ever had.
We had a week actually.
But again, they want to demoralize you.
They want to demoralize you.
They want to tell you, oh, we crushed your champion, he lost, he's over.
Oh, he's not even on the iPhone or Android apps now.
No, we just hit number one on both.
So they delisted them.
They're still there.
And our new flat plateau is the highest plateau we've ever had by about 7%.
And that's just info wars.
A lot of our Travis now sent to news wars.com and others that I think are even better sites.
We're redoing info wars soon.
But regardless, go to info wars.com forward slash show info wars.com forward slash show and click on the podcast for yourself.
Click on the live streams.
But more importantly, share them and then tell folks about the local AM and FM stations.
I know Facebook and all these people all cares about TV stations and cable stations and radio stations.
Well, they're big audiences and we've gained in the last year, as we didn't watch until then, 400 plus TV stations, some big, some small, all precious, over 100 cable systems.
And close to 100 more radio stations.
So again, America's instincts are there and they're fighting back and the globalists don't like that.
And they want to set the precedent to say, look, banning really works.
Big tech, let's ban all the conservatives.
It's just flagrant admissions of such wild criminal activity.
So un-American, so classically evil, and they're doing it like your morons.
And our wonderful president is saying no to it.
Let's go ahead now and start going to part of the president, Bob Woodward.
It gets really heated.
Here it is.
President Trump, how are you?
How are you?
How are you doing?
Okay, real well.
I'm turning my tape recorder.
That's okay.
That's okay.
I don't mind that.
Harry, we missed the opportunity to talk for the book.
Well, I just spoke with Kellyanne and she asked me if I got a call.
I never got a call.
I never got a message.
Who did you ask about speaking to me?
Well, about six people.
If they don't tell me.
Senator, I talked to Kellyanne about it two and a half months ago.
She came for lunch.
Well, it's too bad.
You and I had a conversation, you know, a couple of years ago.
And so that, I think, got you there a little bit.
And we had a conversation many years ago, if you remember, in Trump Tower.
Yes, I did.
That has to be 20 years ago.
And you were thinking about doing a book about me then, which is interesting.
Who knew it would have been on this subject, right?
That was not in the cards at that time.
That's right.
Well, I'm sorry.
I still remember that.
I spent a lot of time on this talk to lots of people.
And as you know, when they're living, we're at the pivot point in history.
Right.
And I would have liked to have done that.
And I maximized my effort.
And somehow it didn't get to you.
It's really too bad because nobody told me.
Let's just go back.
I don't have my mic on.
They always lie and they always say they've talked to you.
That that's just what they do.
And if you do talk to them and they don't want to have your quotes, they go, oh, talk to me again.
And then they always want again and again and again until they publish.
And then one minute before they publish, they go, oh, we're going to publish.
We wanted your response.
Oh, sorry, you didn't get that because they're not media.
They're frauds.
Let's continue.
It's really too bad because nobody told me about it.
And I would have loved to have spoken to you.
You know, I'm very open to you.
I think you've always been fair, but we'll see what happens.
But all I can say is the country is doing very well.
Back it up.
He'd always been fair because you weren't the president yet.
He's a henchman.
He's an assassin of truth.
So now Trump knows he told all his lies.
Let's continue.
Just about that at any time, we're doing better on unemployment maybe than ever.
You know, I mean, if you look at the unemployment numbers, you've heard me say it.
And we're doing better on unemployment than just about ever.
We're having a lot of companies that are moving back into our country.
The pause again.
Yeah, Trump's totally mad that Google searches the news.
Nobody covers the economy.
Nobody covers it coming back because they're the ones that artificially suppressed it
because they hate the country.
They hate flyover country.
They want us to press like Bill Maher said because their scum continue.
It would have been unheard of two years ago if the other administration or representatives
of it had kept going or kept, you know, if the other group at one, I will tell you that
you would have, I think you'd have a GDP of less than zero.
I think we would have been going in the wrong direction because regulations are such a big
part of what we've done, Bob.
Well, I understand that point of view.
And as you know, it's also a difficult time where the political system and you and my
business is being tested.
And I take it very seriously.
I've done books on eight presidents going back from Nixon, Obama.
And I learned something about reporting, frankly, Mr. President.
I've got to go talk to people and see them outside of the White House and outside of
their offices and gained a lot of insight and documentation.
And it's, you know, it's a tough look at the world and your administration and you.
Right.
Well, I assume that means it's going to be a negative book.
But, you know, I'm sort of 50% used to that.
That's all right.
Some are good.
And some of that sounds like it's going to be a bad one.
It's a chance missed.
And I don't know how things work over there in terms of.
Yeah.
Hit pause again.
This is all we never got you to counter any of this.
We're setting you up and Trump's figuring this out now.
Oh, now you could get a hold of me.
Horse manure by a con artist, Bob Woodward.
But Bob, this hit in the 1974, you little globalist and you're not going to get away
from it.
You're not going to get away from it.
And this is the time you slime bag.
What just imagine being filth like that?
We're going to break and come back and put the rest of where they get in the fight.
No one's choirs coming in studio.
I want to break down.
Just remember, they say I'm failing.
They say I'm going under.
It's not true.
But if you don't support us, we will.
And I've got big stuff that you'll be blown away with once we're able to launch it.
But it takes a lot of capital to do it.
Special 50% off on a bunch of our best selling items like bodies, ultimate tumor formula
that's about to sell out.
Ultimate bone broth formula.
Incredible what it does for everybody.
All the other great products, infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com.
Thank you for the support that we needed more than ever in the face of the enemy.
And believe me, these are foreign usurpers that have hijacked the country.
But we're beating them.
Thank God.
Thanks to you.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process
with an all new natural caffeine boost included.
Powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, it could become one of our fellow infowars
favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract, your
Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up, all supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has.
It's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstore.com.
The scientists at infowarslife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients,
but our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Yeah, I know you can't stand it globalists.
We're going to sabotage your operation, sabotage America.
So it's about seven, eight minutes left.
Full video is up on infowars.com, the audio, but it plays in the video player.
A Bob Woodward, letting the president know, I never quoted you, I never called you.
That's really what happened.
He claims he didn't.
And then getting into the fact that it's a giant hit piece and trying to get a rise out of him,
telling him what people told him that he basically made up, which he's famous for.
So let's hear the charlatan attacking the lion. Here it is.
You know, it's a tough look at the world and your administration and you.
Right. Well, I assume that means it's going to be a negative book, but, you know,
I'm sort of 50 percent used to that.
That's all right. Some are good and some are bad.
Sounds like it's going to be a bad one.
The chance missed and I don't know how things work over there in turn.
Very well.
Well, if you would call Madeleine in my office, did you speak to Madeleine?
No, I didn't, but Madeleine is the key.
She's the secret because she's the person I talked to killing.
A lot of them are afraid to come and talk or, you know, they are busy.
I'm busy, but I don't mind talking to you.
I would have spoken to you. I spoke to you 20 years ago and I spoke to you a year and a half or two years ago.
And I certainly don't mind talking to you and I wish I could have spoken to you.
Well, but, you know, but nobody called my office. I mean, you went through, I guess, different people.
President, how can I spend all this time talking to people and like Kellyanne and Raj and Republican senators?
Who were the senators? No, they never called me about it.
Senator Graham said he had talked to you about talking to me. Now, is that not true?
Senator Graham actually mentioned it quickly on one meeting and, you know, that is true.
That is true. Well, no, but that is true.
I mentioned it quickly, not like, you know, and I would certainly have thought that maybe you would have called the office.
But that's okay. I'll speak to Kellyanne. I am a little surprised that she wouldn't have told me.
Actually, she just walked in. I'm talking to Bob Woodward. He said that he told you about speaking to me,
but you never told me. Why didn't you tell me? I would have been very happy to speak to him.
All right, so what are you going to do? Well, if I have another bad book coming up, you do.
It goes on and, you know, I, what you can count on is that I've been very careful.
And Evelyn, are you on? Yes.
Evelyn Duffy, who is my assistant, Mr. Evelyn, she transcribed all the tapes because with permission I taped people for hundreds of hours.
Good.
And I think there's nothing in this book that doesn't come from a firsthand source. Is that correct, Evelyn?
But are you naming names or do you just say sources?
Yeah, well, it names real incidents.
No, but do you name sources? I mean, are you naming the people or just say, you know, people have said?
I say it two o'clock on this day. The following happened and everyone who's there, including yourself, is quoted.
And I'm sorry, I didn't get to ask you about these.
I mean, you do know I'm doing a great job for the country. You do know that NATO now is going to pay billions and billions of dollars more.
As an example, than anybody thought possible, that other presidents were unable to get more and it was heading downward.
You do know all of the things I've done and things that I'm doing.
I'm in the process of making some of the greatest trade deals ever to be made. You do understand that stuff.
I understand and I would love to go through a discussion with you about NATO because this, you know, goes back to early in your administration and your concern about it and the agreement.
All right, let's stop right there.
We put this out as a tape on infowars.com. I'll put the rest of it on there, but that's when it really conceded.
The point is, Trump's like, I'm an American president. Things are working. They're getting better. I'm doing a good job.
No, you're doing a bad job. You're a failure because these aren't a bunch of anti-American scum.
A bunch of wannabe elitists who are trained to hate you because criminals and parasites always hate who they're targeting.
Thank God we're exercising these demons of the left and all the disgusting establishment elitists. Good Lord.
We'll be back with critical intel. Stay with us.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Here's why the Democrats are panicking. In just the last year, the number of black Americans saying they're going to vote Republican because the front's double.
The same number for Hispanics, that's right.
In part of the KKK, the Democrats is in full panic mode.
They would make America great means to me. The fact that I can wake up every day of my life and if I choose to make the right decisions, I can be whatever I want to be in the greatest country in the world.
The president's here. It'd be cool if I do some tricks for him.
I support. I mean, I'm still here. Everybody's having a good time, so it's just, it's a good vibes.
I stand for all his policies, both religiously and politically, and I just think he's been doing a really great job.
I just want to see, like, just what I've never seen in him, and it's exciting.
He's already done so much for the country, and he's really doing a great job.
Have you guys been affected by any of the policies that he's enacted personally?
I have. As far as abortion goes, that was one of my big issues. I very heavily stand for the unborn, and so his policies, as far as that goes, has really, really affected me.
I just like him, you know, I live in New York back in the 70s when Trump was on his rise, and I always had that operation for Trump and the things that he was doing in New York City back in the early mid-70s.
So when he became a candidate for president, I just still had a, you know, a joy for him, you know.
I've got more friends in the unions now than I ever have before.
They are hiring at a rate that they don't have enough minorities to fill. There's not enough of them.
These guys aren't going out and applying for these jobs. They're everywhere, and they're begging for minorities.
Wages are going up. The economy's thriving. Jobs are being provided. I mean, the guy creates minority jobs just by showing up.
Trump's still Trump, and now there's a motivator, a person that do things and a person that can get things done, and nothing you can do or say about it can change.
That's so well.
So why do you like him?
Huh? Because he speaks his mind. He don't play around with it. You know what I mean? He goes to the point.
Do you think some of these other politicians are being fake a lot of times?
Absolutely.
He is a great man for our country. I do believe so, yes. I do. I love Trump. Go Trump!
The hate is clearly over there. He's trying to get that freedom.
You can feel the vibes of hate coming from over there. You look over here and the people aren't screaming at this. The people aren't screaming.
Peace for protesters. This is not what peace for protesters is all about. This is what they think is acceptable. This is not what Trump stands for, but they don't understand it.
Why are they mad for us believing what we believe and we're not mad at them for believing what they believe?
I mean, I think it's all out here to get each other out of our skin, and I love it. It's out here for entertainment purposes for me.
They say, because I'm black, I should be over there. And I'm not black. I don't go by white. I go by two or more races.
What were they saying to you? They said something about a white girl or something. I don't remember.
I can't find the hate. I've been looking for hate all day. Hate was over here with the protesters. There's been no hate in the Trump crowd.
I've got nothing but love all day, so I don't understand where the racism or the hate or whatever they say about Trump.
Trump's not a racist. He's an American businessman. It's that simple. The divide was created in the Obama administration, and that wave has just been rolled by the media, and that's it.
Trump creates nothing but greatness.
Inspiracy theories were first spread by radio talk show host Alex Jones.
But to get the employee at YouTube on tape admitting that they do it, I mean, you must be a threat if they call you out by name.
Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones. Alex Jones.
Alex Jones is a lunatic. Because they know that these are legitimate news organizations, and if at that point somebody decides they're going to scroll past that and go find Alex Jones,
well, if they were looking for him, it's being with anyone. That might have some threat to this country.
There's a guy on the radio. His name is Alex Jones. Alex Jones. There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
Time to stop submitting a mischarity. It's time to realize that we're being enslaved. I heard that on Alex Jones.
Info wars went even further. Info wars. It's a radio show hosted by Alex Jones.
We are in an information war, and we are losing that war.
Nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great man. Info wars. believers. Info wars. Info wars. Info wars. Info wars.
Info wars. Info wars. Info wars.
Info wars. Info wars. Info wars. Info wars. Info wars. Impho wars us. Impho wars us. Impho wars us. Info wars us. Info wars us. Info wars us. Info wars us.
looking at widely reported information from InfoWars.
InfoWars.
InfoWars.
InfoWars.
InfoWars.com.
I want freedom!
That's what I want!
And that's what you should want!
Hello, this is Hank Hill, and I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Owen Schroyer, sure, he's got a big plan, a big idea that I concur.
It's going to be massive if you think it's important.
The sky's the limit.
If you choose to take this mission, let's come in at 33 after with the classic Mission Impossible.
I had it in there like 20 years ago, in about 5 years.
I'm not mad.
I have to say it on air that it happens.
We always play the high-tech new one.
I want, as a form of neuroses, at 33 after, I need it.
I need to hear Mission Impossible, the classic, from the 1960s.
Owen, the energy level's very, very high.
I'm sure you've seen the news.
Literally hundreds of articles, republished thousands of times, shank ban Alex Jones, ban everyone.
Fake news by Bob Woodward.
People say we never said that to Bob Woodward.
He doesn't have tapes of it.
A total hoax by him.
Total desperation by the Deep State.
Alex Jones said bans would strengthen him.
He was wrong.
No, I said it may destroy us.
But if listeners choose to take action, if listeners choose to believe in the First Amendment, it could backfire, but it's up to you.
And what's that right there?
Almost double the highest ratings we've ever had and the new plateau going up in the month of August.
The new plateau was the previous highs.
And I already said on air, our traffic was like three, four times what it's ever been, and then now it's really high.
And of course, this is Google Analytics, which is only off Google devices. We showed our own analytics earlier.
But I mean, let's sit here and let's show this to everybody.
That is from our own internal analytics from Cloudflare.
Now that new peak, these lows are old peaks.
Look at that, baby. That's on the 6th and the 7th and the 8th. Everybody was like, oh my God, what's this thing I can't see?
Right when they banned you.
Let me go see this thing.
This, in our own analytics, is three times the traffic we had on election night, 2016.
Three times.
And that first peak was that weekend where we were doing coverage of all of their protests to the Patriot prayer marches,
and they said, nope, you know what, we have to shut Alex Jones down.
He's got too much reach. He's got too much.
Yeah, and then this is the new plateau.
But according to our analytics, it's about 20, 30% bigger than the last plateau, but Google says 7%.
The point is, the New York Times, though, says we're failures.
Just like when the app on Android and on Apple, millions of downloads, went to number one in news, and they just delisted it.
You can go get it at infowars.com.
It's still there, but you can't find it in the search function.
It's gone.
This is organized fraud, Owen.
I mean, the thing is, is that they were always liars, but now they've gone and said, oh, let's stop lying.
They go, no, let's quadruple down.
And then now top Democrats are saying, actually, don't impeach him.
It'll cause a civil war.
It'll cause depression because Trump got into power and he could remove some of the globalist tariffs that people had.
So that brought back a bunch of stuff.
That's just phase one. That's nothing.
10% growth rate is easy.
The president's right.
4.6 coming up.
So we're going to go to break and come back with Owen Schreuer, who's here with me.
Quite a time to be alive.
Infowars.com, newswars.com.
But my God, these people are a pack of liars, and they hate you.
They disrespect you.
They think you're morons.
I mean, these are the villains.
They are the hecklers of our age.
They call us Nazis all day, and they're funded by that old, ugly, evil Nazi collaborator, you know, that wart.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey, or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
If you like alkaline water, or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon Living Water Bottle.
It creates alkaline water on the go, while reducing plastic waste and saving you money.
Made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon Bottle increases the pH up to 9
to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better, and can even boost energy.
The Dillon Bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
And get your Dillon Bottle today at DYLN.CO. That's DYLN.CO.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that.
For children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year,
and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier
as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be,
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShieldM4sLive.com.
Look, I've never been bouncing off the walls like this.
In 20-something years on, everybody knows that I can feel the energy, I can see it,
I can tell you they're getting ready to make their move.
We're winning.
Trump's amazing.
They are lying.
They've made a conscious decision in media to cover each other at the Washington Post,
at the New York Times, at CNN, when they just go out and say,
ban everyone, and the next day you go, you're banning people.
They go, no one's banning anyone.
They're trying to break our will right now, and they're so upset that they artificially
suppressed the economy and sold off U.S. productivity and riches,
and that things are coming back and that Trump isn't gone yet, and the word is,
like I told you before, the last election, there's a huge red wave,
even though there's going to be election fraud.
The wave's going to be so big, they're frauds of seawall.
It's going to go over the top, thanks to you.
Call everyone.
Go on C-SPAN.
Go on local TV, local radio.
Go speak at city council, PTA, your church.
Get involved now.
Vote, vote, vote, vote, vote.
But even more importantly, pray to God for justice, because Owen,
I played Mission Impossible Music, come in and we'll play it next segment.
We have a mission for people that if they choose to accept it,
we'll ensure the victory, but I mean, do you energetically,
also intellectually, but spiritually feel and see what we're dealing with
and the fact that it's all confirmed?
What a bunch of criminal, twisted, weird, mutated, hateful,
anti-Americans, when you look at what they do and their lies and what they,
this is the scum of the earth that gravitated towards power.
We as normal people didn't want power, but now we're awake to them
and we're removing them and they are freaking out like Linda Blair
when the priest is putting the holy water on her.
Let's use the old Star Wars allegory.
Alex, we're driving in the crevice of the Death Star
and the opening that we have to shoot through is, you know, a tiny little hole
and it's closing and we've got the time right now to send the blasters
through that hole and blow up the Death Star.
And we have to pull the trigger.
And we have to do it now and we have to act and this midterm election
is going to be, I think, the pivotal point that we have
and maybe the last time we have to blast through that thing.
Without it really being horrible and that's the thing,
America killed 55 million babies and we done a bunch of bad stuff and we were pinned,
but you know what, the father and me and the nice guy wants to win in this round.
We're going to win. It's just, how bad is it going to get?
Well, look what you were doing.
This is a painless victory if we can have it.
But do we really deserve it, Ellen?
Probably not. I mean, but do we even deserve to be here?
You know, it's the Bible tells us it's by God's grace that we're even here.
So we don't even deserve to be here to begin with.
That's right.
So maybe we will win this victory even though we don't deserve it.
But Alex, look at what you're talking about where they say,
there's no censorship happening.
You're crazy.
It's like as they're removing half the audience.
In the same show, they go, ban them all, take them.
And next, no one's taking one off.
Trump's crazy.
And you're like, it's on purpose to like mess with people.
But look at what they're doing right now to judge Kavanaugh.
What are the Democrats doing?
They're all saying, well, we don't have the documents.
So we can't read those documents.
We can't confirm a judge until we have the document.
Whoa, hold up.
What about Obamacare?
You didn't care about the documents then.
Oh, that's genius.
They didn't even read it and they voted on it.
And then Hillary had the documents.
You know, she's got to be arrested until we have the 35,000 emails.
So that is smart.
It's total fraud.
It's total fraud on this race.
But everything they do always blows back on their face.
I mean, would the documents even change their vote?
Of course not.
No one's ever demanded everything he wiped his ass with.
Except for the Democrats.
Because that's what they're into.
And I'm sorry to talk like that.
But they're like, we want one.
He was a clerk at the session.
So people are like, what?
That's what Mueller's doing.
And I can't believe they actually found him in a few weeks and dumped him off.
But that's what I'm saying.
It's like, OK, here's even the documents.
Go through the documents.
It's not going to change their vote.
In case he ever clerked on him like five courts.
I mean, people are, this is why people...
How the hell could you even demand that?
You want what he wrote in his law journal.
You want his rulings.
You want his statements.
That's all that's admissible.
Not every judge or court he was ever involved in.
By the way, they were silent for the, I believe it was, six opinions by Judge Kavanaugh.
Six opinions by Judge Kavanaugh that made Supreme Court decisions.
Six opinions.
Oh, he's a very respected judge.
So it's the same type of fraud.
But people are seeing this, Alex.
Diane Feinstein, during her open, her questions today, she said that she wants a Supreme Court that is multi-religious, multi-ethnic, and get this multi-economic.
Wow, Diane.
Wow.
Yeah, you really got to know that.
The two don't live together, lady.
Oh my God.
Can we find that clip?
Yeah, we can.
Diane Feinstein calls for multi-economic court.
If we can't find the raw clip.
I recorded it earlier, I was doing a live stream earlier on Twitter.
Doesn't she get communism and socialism?
Doesn't live with capitalism?
But doesn't it just show you where they're headed?
Like, I want fish that, I want fish that fly, you know, or I want pigs that fly.
It's like, what is the Supreme Court supposed to be, Alex?
It's supposed to be justice.
It's supposed to be what we determine as justice and law.
And we want pre-market.
If you want to go to North Korea or Venezuela, go.
No, we want this piece of filth.
No, it's not about justice for the Democrats.
We need to make sure that pig woman went to Congress with no money.
$80 million now finds her.
Her husband has billions in biotech money.
She gave to him.
But these are the people that, this is why Trump got elected.
We're sick of seeing these people.
But you know what, Alex?
When it comes to your censorship, you know, Alex, bugs can be an annoying thing.
But you're kind of like a bug in the globalist ear.
But the problem is every once while you leave the ear and you land on your,
and you land on their cheek and you sit there for a little bit and they're like,
oh, I got them.
And then they end up slapping theirself in the face.
They're like, oh, did we get him?
Did we get him?
And then he lands on the other cheek and they're like, oh, wait.
All right, here, here, slap him, slap him.
He's like flies to land on Obama.
I think it's a big old poopie.
All right, I got him.
We got him.
Fly goes, look at that big old poopie.
And there goes Alex Jones.
Oh my gosh, he's gone.
Fly's like, I smell poop.
Over to Obama.
We actually had like five different times where flies are like flying around.
It's like a pig sty or whatever.
They land on her too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Pig pin from Charlie Brown.
Yeah.
That's who it is.
But Alex, but look, you got a big announcement when we come up.
All I'm telling folks is come home or relax, Dave.
I got totally crazed when the New York Times is Jones's traffic's down by half
and it's record traffic.
And by the way, that's what's crazy is we provided him with that.
Look at that down by half.
This is down by half.
Jones is traffic.
It's down.
Oh my gosh.
The New York Times said Iraq had WMDs.
Hold on, Alex.
And they go, well, look, it's gone down since then.
No, that's a higher average than what it normally is.
See.
No, but don't you know that's going down right here?
This is your traffic.
This is down.
That's decreasing.
Yes.
The stock market's down under Trump.
That's them to feed.
Yeah.
Unemployment is up.
They're not on Wall Street.
They don't call it Trump Mountain.
No, this graph is not blue.
It's red.
It's not Trump Mountain.
The New York Times says this is red.
It's Trump Valley.
The stock market is Trump Valley.
God, Trump gets in.
It's not Trump Mountain.
Let me see, 2017, January?
Straight down.
Yep.
Trump Valley for the stock market.
Hillary got in.
Remember how they said that the trade negotiations with China would take the stock market?
Oh, they went up 1,000 points.
Yeah, because it was all one-sided screw jobs.
Like, Canada has 280% tariffs on us.
Mexico went, you know what?
You're reasonable.
We could cut a few things where we're screwing you over.
I'm like, okay, go.
Canada goes, no, we're keeping them.
We're going higher.
And then imagine if an anti-American company like Nike decided to manufacture their goods
in America again.
Could you imagine what that would do for the stock market?
Oh, but instead, let's worship Bozo the Clown Kaepernick, who sucks, running around Virtus
signaling about how much honor he's got when it's all about pissing on America.
You know what?
You have a right to piss on America, Kaepernick.
I also wish you'd get the hell out of it.
But here's the other right to say you are a moron.
You are a low IQ idiot.
We're good old fashioned comfort.
Get Diamond Gusset Jeans.
Every stitch guaranteed.
And our Defender motorcycle gene comes cavilar reinforced.
See them at GUSS-S-E-T dot com.
That's Gusset dot com.
Or call 888-848-7738.
That's 888-848-7738.
Diamond Gusset Jeans got it.
No.
And these are the cars from the
Staying healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home, but sometimes
supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why InfoWarsLife has created a powerful new addition to the Super Blue line, Super
Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in 1 oz., 3.5 oz., and 16 oz. bottles, Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom,
kitchen, or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula is dentists recommended for daily use whenever you feel
like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing formula, just a small spray will help you
stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients, Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver for
a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, staying toxin-free is easy and affordable.
Stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle, only
available at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric
root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support
your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And maybe you're ready to hear from me.
We've got some good news, ladies and gentlemen.
The worm is turning in D.C. and the old fellows up there that run that situation, they are
very, very quickly realizing that big tech is censoring every conservative, every Christian,
every veteran's group, every libertarian group, and more importantly, members of Congress.
So this is BreakingOnInfoWars.com.
I'm in criticism of firm Hatch once Google investigated capping off a week of attacks
on the company.
Senator Orrin Hatch called Thursday for an investigation into search giant Google's possible
anti-competitive practices.
We'll give you more on that coming up.
My mic sounds different.
It's something happened.
Something changed in there.
Oh, there it is.
It's not plugged in.
There you go.
Okay.
We're back.
Owen Shroyers here.
And I'm so wound up.
I'm bouncing off the walls for the poor crew behind the scenes.
It's that it's so epic.
We exposed.
You exposed.
You're the power of InfoWars.
The blood, sweat, brains, guts, muscles, you name it.
You exposed that they were censoring everybody.
You made a noise.
Now Trump did something.
Now it's a snowball with 63 days left.
They have responded like criminals do.
They've taken a hostage and have a gun to America's head, and they're getting worse.
The Democrats are getting crazier.
And so now that they're lying and saying, I've been shut down and I've been bankrupted,
which is their goal, if you forget about us, because the truth is massive support came
in.
Now it's starting to trail off, but it's still better than ever.
They're trying to celebrate that we've been shut down and that we're going bankrupt and
that we don't have any visitors so you don't realize their power has been broken and that
big tech and the Democrats are failing.
This is military.
That's why I showed you what's happening.
It's like them Tokyo rose a month before we bombed Hiroshima and Nagasaki with A-bombs.
I'm not saying we're doing that.
It's an allegory.
It's an analogy.
Of course, the listeners get it, but they'll lie about it.
They said that America had been destroyed.
It wasn't true.
Now, if you notice, our new plateau doesn't have spikes.
It's a new plateau.
There you see the first two weeks of us being banned triple.
That's Google.
Our analytics say triple.
That's basically double our previous record.
But now the new plateau overall is 7% higher than all our numbers combined.
They say we've been shut down.
It isn't about enforcers.
It's about the mindset that they want to say we're losers and they want to make you think
you've lost, but here's what's happening.
We haven't just gotten more hardcore listeners.
The quality's gone up.
The support has increased.
Here's the problem.
All I can do is tell you the truth.
Our hardcore listeners that have loved us over the years, the two in and out, they've
come in.
They're there.
Our baseline listeners are there, stronger than ever.
When we're getting more AM and FM affiliates and that's great, those are huge audiences.
But in the outreach, reaching new people during this critical time when they're ready to
be awakened and the globalists miscalculated by demonizing info wars and trying to shut
us down, they need us completely shut down now or we'll actually get that new audience.
They get it.
So they need to completely destroy us and make sure we have no outreach because people
are now ready to listen.
You don't just censor somebody, you've got to destroy them.
And that's why Owen had the idea.
Last week we're launching it here and we've got a limited staff, but the key to this is
showing the great work you do.
You posting it to YouTube, Facebook as a citizen, you're allowed to talk about what's happening,
getting it out there and then we can magnify it here, but launching a plan that Owen has.
And again, here's the New York Times saying ban Alex Jones listeners from the internet.
There's headlines all over the news.
If we can pull one of those up, pull Watson wrote an article about it.
And they're saying get his listeners off here.
I found it right here, Facebook, all over being lobby, New York Times, lobbies, Facebook
to shut down private info wars fan pages because here's what happened.
Like water following gravity or plants, you know, turning towards the sun or men and women
being attracted to each other.
It's gravity.
You knock our 5 million followers off Facebook off, even though they are the shadow bandits
down to 5% last year.
We were already banned.
All it did was take all these hundreds of fan pages with 20,000 likes or 100,000 likes,
whatever.
They all have gone up 30, 40% the last month and then they just magnified and then see the
globals are figuring that out.
Oh my God, we shut him down, but other people now we got to shut them down, which is another
chain reaction and more people who have something taken away like a dog.
It's got something in his mouth.
Try to take the ball away.
You get the tug of war now.
Now it loves that ball like and this is why they're so stupid.
So when you're a smart guy, I want to watch him for his army next segment and you'll host
a little bit in with Paul coming up.
But tell me, Paul says Watson, what do you think the thinking is here because we would
be destroyed if the listeners didn't get it and stand up.
But because of them, we are still here and with the lawsuits and the attacks, we need
more money to even be even killed.
It's like God just keeps providing.
It's exactly what we need.
And then they do something else and all of a sudden I was like, blup, like without me
even saying it's like metaphysical like Newtonian physics, every action opposite an equal reaction.
It's like literally they attack and then God just goes, blup, blup, blup, blup, blup, blup,
and it's almost a free will thing.
It is like when you care and just metaphysically move, it's getting crazy.
Well, they underestimated their enemy, Alex.
Their enemy was the American people.
They underestimated the American people.
They thought that they were drugged out of their minds, fluoridated out of their minds
and either not interested in news and current events or they were following sports or the
Kardashians or hip hop or whatever the most trendy distraction was in their lives.
But there's a worm turning, as you said earlier, there's a worm turning right now where it's
like the lure of sports and pop culture is not as shiny.
It's not as mystique.
It's in vogue now to say, oh, and it's been, it's been the thing that takes those energies
and distracts them.
Exactly.
That's all imploding and people are getting what that energy is really about.
And this is why Kanye West seems like he's the smartest man on earth right now because
he just gets it.
He understands that, wait a second, if the entire culture, if the entire establishment
society is going against something, Kanye West is an individual just naturally, instinctually
has always said, I'm going to go against that.
I'm going to be opposite that.
So he sits here and says, yeah, look, I support Trump.
He even says, oh, I don't know about his policies necessarily, but I like Trump.
He was the underdog.
They kept telling him he couldn't win.
Well, now he's definitely winning.
He's the most talked about human on earth probably ever since Jesus.
And so he's having these victories and they don't know what to do.
They didn't think he'd get elected.
They thought they could bully America out of electing him.
You know, there was actually an amazing thing, Alex.
It was, I think it was a journal review and it was February 2016 and it had a bunch of
different radio hosts and news hosts and authors and everyone saying never support Trump.
And I was actually shocked at some of the conservatives I found on that list like Dana
Lesh.
And I'm not here insulting Dana Lesh.
It's just Alex, we knew where the victory was.
Well, yeah, they're banned, they're not leaders.
She's good looking.
She's smart.
She's not a leader.
Because you can act like a leader.
A leader means you do the right thing even when it looks like the odds are against you
because you know it's right.
That's called leadership.
But, I mean, we saw Trump pretty much day one going against this grain and did not give
a damn whether they said he could win or lose.
It didn't matter to me whether they said he could win or lose.
I was going to support him because we knew the gut level and we knew he was going to
win.
You know what I'm saying, we're tuned into, I like to call it the frequency, we're tuned
into the force, we're tuned into God, we're tuned into planet Earth.
There are things out there, there are existential wavelengths that people can tune into and
There are more things in the world in heaven than in all your books.
It's like when people, and I remember I had the same thing happen, you probably had the
same thing happen.
Oh, who's going to win the presidency?
If you, Donald Trump, everybody remembers the famous Ann Coulter segment.
I agree, but now they're getting more and more desperate.
So I know we're confident, but I'm telling you, they could blow the president up with
a nook.
I mean, these people are crazy.
And what would that do?
They could work for him.
Exactly.
Like he said, there's no, they have no victory.
They can, they'll burn the earth to the ground, but they won't win.
It sounds like the devil.
That's what the devil does.
Well, I mean, the more and more people look at these people's eyes, they see the devil.
And I'm not just saying that, they really are devils.
They got big plans and you're part of them when you choose this mission.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage.
And that's why we need you to go to the site now, if you're not in the market for one of
our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution, 25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500
would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and destroy their
campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me like first demonize info wars, lie about us, build a straw man,
then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then walla two weeks later, ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds, go to info wars dot com forward
slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing
your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and give us your
emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our
own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about info wars dot com forward slash show how they can
download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with
the information and point out, this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium
formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure
deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones.
You may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients, perfect for a hot
summer day or relaxing at home.
Vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids
and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today available at info wars store dot com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I was just joking about the big news and I said I wonder what the next thing is.
Well, they'll videotape you out with your four children in public and the left all
celebrated that had my kids taken away, which wasn't even true, I have them and now they
just walk over to public, you'll F you and your family when I was my kids, they get really
pissed when they see me with kids because again, they don't have kids, they've given
up on life.
It's weird, man.
No, we have to face these people.
These are the goblins that we face in the street.
It's a real, real battle with Mordor.
All right, let's get into your mission impossible for the listeners to take action where we're
counting on all you folks without you, they can win, but it's so much fine, especially
if you put up, say, a hundred things on power polls legally and lawfully with info wars
dot com forbidden information, we're going to create the enforce army subsection of
info wars with some good art you can print off and do your own.
Don't wait and put these up and do all this and it just becomes huge news like Sebo does
out in California like we did years ago with the Obama Joker because they're trying to
kick us out of the Internet, well, let's hit him in the third dimension, which don't worry.
This week you're going to want to tune in because we're going to be on the ground in
big ways just info wars dot com news wars dot com.
Don't worry.
Don't worry.
They haven't shut Jack Diddly squat down.
Go ahead.
Well, that's exactly it.
Alex, they want to essentially have total control over what we see and what we're exposed
to and how do they get that control through the levers of the digital platforms, Facebook,
Twitter, YouTube.
That's the digital world where most communication happens and most messaging happens.
So if they want to try to ban us from the digital world, which they are trying to do,
we will jack into the 3D physical realm and we will break into their matrix there and
then bring people to our platform.
And I was calling an operation third dimension, but you know, so it's like the info wars
armies first mission is operation third dimension.
So basically here's here's a couple of things that I have in mind, Alex, one, the the bit
the one thing like you said, if you if we can have some sort of a stunt that makes national
news, that's huge.
And it doesn't hoarding events, unfurling info wars things, exactly, confronting Bill Clinton.
It doesn't even.
Exactly.
Something like that.
If it's like with the Bill Clinton is a rapist thing that became national news, right, just
people saying Bill Clinton is rapist, getting on the television saying that that became a
national news thing.
Now, a lot of this stuff will have to kind of war game behind the scenes so that the
enemy doesn't get privy to what we're doing.
But a lot of this will be war gaming on the war room with myself and Roger Stone, three
to six weekdays here at info.
So now the info we already planned this years ago, knowing this was coming, the war room
is going to be the coordination of the operation.
Exactly.
And the one thing that I am saying in public that I want people to do, everybody knows
I came from the sports media.
Okay, so here in September and October are two huge months for sports.
These are huge targets in the information war.
So you know, I just have a vision, Alex.
I can see it now.
It's Yankee Stadium on a September night or an October night.
It's postseason and there's a nice ambiance.
People are filing in.
You can hear the sodas crackling and the peanuts.
Kill it all.
Yes.
And Obama's having a hot dog in the private.
All the days.
Yeah.
Anyway, but, but, but they're hanging from the, from the, from the side of the rafters.
There's a big sign that says free Alex Jones and 60,000 people are in Yankee stadium free
Alex Jones.
Who is Alex Jones?
I've never heard of Alex Jones or I don't know, you're at a big college football game
at your, at your homecoming weekend for college football and you and your buddies decide you're
going to get some king size.
Well, it's the morning before like they do on the news, they hold up signs about their
team hold up free Alex Jones college game day.
That's right.
They do it every week.
The big college football game, college game day.
Everybody puts up a sign.
Infowars.com is banned.
Free info wars.
Free Alex Jones.
Here's the thing.
Cause they've used sports, which are great to divert us, use our animal instincts, often
things that don't matter.
Use your information warfare instincts to put up info wars as banned.
Hashtag free Alex Jones.
So this is how we're going to red pill people break into the mainstream matrix in the physical
realm since they're trying to deny us that access on the digital realm.
And here's the other thing too.
Alex, like you said, okay, everybody can go on and do a little tweet and hashtag and
put out a popular tweet.
And then the leftist can block that.
No, no, no, they cannot stop you third dimensional, but, but let's say this Alex, this, the,
in the 3D world is more fun.
You know how much more fun it is to go out there and do not climb up on a billboard of
some leftist, globalist politician, running for Robertson spray paint over at info wars.com
for boat.
Do not.
Do anything illegal.
Yeah.
We have a mission statement.
Nothing illegal, nothing that's violent.
We're totally peaceful.
So that isn't.
But you could get those big projectors on the side of a big building, like during a college
game and sit night or after or to project up on the building info wars.com for boat.
Ah, or, you know, let's say you, you know, own a business or let's say you, you can call
to this week to just, just, just search engine, local air advertising.
They have companies, maybe $1,000 to make the banner, a couple thousand go up to the
flight, you guys that got money and gals put it on the table, info wars.com, forbidden
or free Alex Jones, get airplanes up like I did all over the country.
I spent hundreds of thousands of dollars putting things up, saying Hillary for president
and it got on national news and it kicked off.
It's the will folks.
You got to do it.
And some of this stuff is going to take some money, you know, it takes, it takes a couple
hundred bucks to buy a front row seat behind a baseball game or just the timing like when
Bill Clinton goes, and as everybody knows, you're a rapist.
Yeah.
Well, and that's priceless.
Now, something like that is priceless.
Exactly.
Going to an event and stealing the show like that is priceless.
But like yesterday, a ball game, there was a guy sitting right behind perfect camera
view right behind the home plate in a baseball game with a MAGA hat on.
You know what was on TV for nine straight innings?
Make America great again.
You know what I don't get?
I don't have a lot of money.
Like I said, we were making more money than we ever made since this ban happened.
But earlier in the year, they'd taken some sponsors, done some stuff we were behind.
We're still not ahead, but we're doing well.
I'm just working to do the facts, folks.
And but I don't have the money.
If people have the donations, if I got $100,000, I would literally parse it out to whoever
would do it and then go with their size behind home plate.
And then that $100,000 would be like $20 million to advertise.
Exactly.
Because you're going to have a million people watch the game on TV.
You're going to have people at the game wondering what's going on.
And guess what?
Here's the one thing.
And this will be kind of an interesting thing to test here, Alex.
Well, they're trying to suppress your speech.
Fight back America.
Well, it used to be normal.
I'm telling you, Alex, you could go, even in the 90s, you could go and hang any sign
you wanted at a ball game.
I was going to ask you what your sign meant.
Infowars.com.
No one's going to ask you to take.
Oh, but now I don't know.
So maybe there's another thing we're kind of testing too.
Are they going to censor free speech actually in the 3D world?
No.
Are they actually going to come after you?
Oh, but guess what?
Well, the left wants free speech zones.
The left is banned among universities.
We've got to let these little bastards know.
Everything you announce, publicly, pro-second amendment, land rights, pro-life, and if it
comes out and they have bike locks, well, the little turds aren't going to be in baseball
and football games.
Well, you know, maybe you've got a nice Infowars Navy t-shirt with the red logo that's really
loud on the front.
You just have four people sitting behind home plate standing there.
They all got their Infowars shirt on for nine innings, on TV for nine innings.
So stuff like that.
There's other things.
People know.
We're invading those spaces with the truth.
It's all about jacking into the matrix.
There's a mainstream matrix that they don't want your political message there.
That's what they're showing you right now by centering you on social media.
So we have to go into the physical 3D world and put our political message out there.
The people strike back.
So here's the deal, though.
There's going to be some organization here because what I need to do is get people in
touch with one another so that you can meet other like-minded people who want to go out
there.
The house is going to work.
So InfowarsArmy.com is where you can enlist.
Oh, it's up now.
Yeah.
There's going to be an enlistment thing.
Oh, my God.
I didn't even know that.
Wow.
There's going to be an enlistment thing at the bottom of the website.
And there's different rankings, too.
So it's pretty easy.
You become a private.
You put an Infowars magnet on your car, an Infowars bumper sticker on your car.
You wear a Trump hat around.
When you go out, you're an Infowars shirt.
Okay, you're a private.
Let's say you decide you want to hold up a sign at a college football game that, you
know, 50,000, 100,000 people will see and a bunch of people will be talking about and
you organize that with your buddies and you're all waving a big Infowars.com sign.
Free Alex Jones sign at the college game.
Maybe you're a, maybe you're a Sergeant First Class material.
And then there's also the University Wars division.
We want to get people filming Marxist professors spouting off ideas.
Undercover.
Undercover, too.
Yeah.
So, so there's the University Wars division of the Infowars Army and then the Infowars
Army, which my, and here's the thing too, Alex, you know this, I mean, look, I think
I'm a pretty creative guy.
I have some pretty good ideas.
I can't think of nearly any of the stuff that these people come to me with great ideas.
Like for example, like, like Caitlin Bennett goes and trolls her entire Kent State campus
by dressing up as herself.
So come out with brilliant ideas on your own and come to us with them.
So we're going to organize.
That's what we got to do too.
We're going to organize and we're going to, we're going to activate and we're going to
jack into the mainstream matrix, the 3D world.
And if they want to stop us from marketing and getting our message and, and accomplishing
making America great again in the digital world, we'll screw them.
We'll go out into the 3D world.
It's more fun that way.
And then we'll take up with the internet and we'll take up a broadcast, which you've
already done.
And then you make and then you, and then you become the news, you see, you see, then you
become the news.
And I'm so proud of our AM and FM and TV affiliates.
I mean, it's been exploding the last year and a half, but it's now 20 plus stations
a week.
It's insane.
The radio stations and TV stations get it and they get a censorship happens in internet.
The big audience is coming back to them.
But here's the other thing too, that our audience needs to understand.
You will amplify our message because that's what, oh, wow, info wars.com is getting free
marketing and stadiums and on the streets.
I want that.
I want, I want to get on board that.
I want to broadcast that.
Imagine because they've picked us as the target to be demonized, destroyed, shut down for
everybody else.
If America rallies and holds us up, it will be unstoppable.
Let's do five more minutes for PJW from London.
Take so we're talking about info wars army info wars army.com.
This is your mission.
You choose to accept it info wars life is launching it's really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from
berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your
body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as
micro ZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality
products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out at a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber, get yours today, infowarslife.com.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We're back live now, you heard us plug the URL, but to make it more fun, it won't be
up for about five months till we've lost the election, I'm not being sarcastic.
Infowarsarmy will be up later today at infowarsarmy.com, Owen has an email which probably doesn't
work either, but that's okay, I had to bitch on air to get it done, I'm not mad, I'm not
mad.
Took me an hour to get a freaking screenshot of us being number one, okay, you know, and
I mean, and again, I have to do that to get it, I don't even want to do this on there.
I want to do this on air, but I have to.
So Owen, start over nicely for, you can play it off email, you're not going to get a website.
So just start over, go ahead.
Well you can send an email right now to infowarsarmy at infowars.com and that is how I've kind of
been aggregating people right now, but I was hoping to be able to build this database off
info.
That's why I didn't want to do this.
I have to know stuff is ready before we do it, you understand?
I can't get a screenshot, Owen.
People don't want to get me on air like this right now, it's been too much today, go ahead.
We're going to get it done, we're going to get it done, we're going to get it done because
it's what the audience wants and that's- And the listeners are going to take action, they're
the ones that won't be stopped, they're the amazing people that make infowars happen.
Yeah, their will will not be, will not be distracted from and then exactly won't be
stopped.
So the goal here is with my initial push in the month of September and October, two huge
months for sport events.
So we need to jack into while there's all the coverage, all the attention, millions
and millions of eyes on Pennet Chase and baseball and baseball playoffs and the opening NFL
kickoff and opening college football kickoffs and conference season and everything.
There's a huge to do, huge media coverage, they have college game day on campuses, everybody
knows what I'm talking about.
So we can jack into that, put a free Alex Jones sign, hang it from where the banners
are at the big college football stadium, have, I said, why don't you get a bunch of buddies,
you get a bunch of king size white sheets and you write info on one, wars on the other
and dot com on the third and you're sitting there waving it for a hundred thousand people
to see at a college football game.
So if they want to try to ban us from the digital marketplace, which is what they're
doing, they don't want us to exist there.
So we'll go out into the real world and do it there and it's going to be organized.
I'm going to be able- And by the way, you've got a pledge from me, I'm going to be in the
third dimension a lot now.
Just wait, just watch.
So Alex, you know, that like- I'm not going to sit around and hear anymore.
And I'm out there too with the people and that's the great thing about it is we do go
out there and meet you and I will be meeting you too.
I mean, I still go out there organizing other things that we're working on, so, but you
also have direct contact with me because I'll be, I'll be trying to help people with ideas
and to get active.
Oh, if this takes off like it did in 2016, again, it's so beautiful.
I put a bunch of prize money on it, this time because of budgetary concerns, we have more
money coming in, but we have more expenses than ever with lawsuits, the globalist attacks,
security, you know, all the rest of it.
But I will announce that in the next 62 days of the election, whoever does the best job
on this will get flown to Austin to be on the show and will win $10,000.
But I can't sit there and judge it all and have all the entries come in.
We don't have the personnel.
Okay, we have great people.
It's just that what we're maintaining, what we've got so hard is we try to upscale that
doing new stuff is very, very hard.
What we do, we do well.
Crew's great, which is that we can't sit there and, you know, have a contest and monkey
it around.
I just got to go, that's the best one.
She gets $10,000 just, you know, and flown to Austin to be in studio.
But that's the real prize is defeating the globalists.
The real prize is letting them know they're not going to make you submit and shut up.
You're going to win.
So, give them the email again.
We think that works, right?
I am working the email.
I am responding via emails.
I am in touch.
I am getting a lot of messages and attacks.
Well, give them that because that's how this organization, this operation is going to run,
is the email.
InfoWarsArmy at infowars.com.
InfoWarsArmy at infowars.com.
We have to red pill the people in the 3D matrix, in the mainstream matrix because they want
to block us on the digital platform.
We become the news.
You want to block us?
We'll become the news.
That's right.
Great job, Owen.
We're in the room in 55 minutes, Paul Joseph Watson straight ahead.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact
filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing
220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
And now, live from her Britannic Majesty's England, the dreaded Information Warfare Lord,
Redcoats Supreme, Paul Joseph Watson.
Hello Alex, how are you doing?
Good my friend.
Go ahead and take over my friend.
You've been speaking about Facebook obviously throughout the whole show and them lying about
our traffic.
The other big story up on infowars.com is New York Times Lobby's Facebook to shut down
private info wars fan page.
This is a page that we didn't even create.
This is a closed group on Facebook of individual users.
This is the point.
The corporate media is literally now lobbying Facebook, lobbying these big tech monopolies
to stop individual citizens from posting content on social media websites.
That is absolutely huge.
That is a new level of censorship.
And they're saying don't promote Alex Jones, don't promote Trump.
They're saying you're not allowed to talk about this or your band.
This is now actual word control beyond 1984.
It's next level Alex.
And you know, I went on this page earlier while it's still in existence before Facebook
shuts it down.
Most of the posts aren't even about you on even about info wars.
It's all kinds of different news sources.
So it's not even centric on info wars.
We didn't create it.
It's got posts going up every few minutes from all these people in this group.
It's a private individual group and the New York Times directly went to Facebook and said
look at these screenshots, look at this hate against Muslim and transgenders.
In the article, they provide zero examples of that.
And of course, now we know that their their meaning of hate is basically any criticism
of Islam whatsoever.
So they couldn't even provide any examples for it.
And in the article, they admit the time since screenshots to Facebook of activity taking
place inside these groups, this dangerous stock festering corner of Facebook, Facebook
removed several comments saying they violated the company's policies on hate speech.
The groups themselves, however, remain active.
So this is the exact same playbook that CNN that Buzzfeed used for the past six months
starting back in February with people like Oliver Darcy, who has a creepy obsession with
Alex Jones, going to YouTube, going to Facebook, demanding they take down our content, our
channels, our pages over and over again.
Now this headline on the New York Times is Facebook's private groups offer refuge to
fringe figures.
And the New York Times, Kevin Roos reveals how a private in four Wars Facebook group
with more than 110,000 members has survived the crackdown until now, because the corporate
media demands that it be removed.
So it must be removed.
Absolutely Orwellian policing of individual users activity and Paul, I'm going to get
out here and let you cover this, but I'm going to be listening, but let me explain something
and I need your help with this.
You wrote about it two years ago.
We did Obama signed an executive order in the CIA to have a group that stayed behind
to quote, stop Trump and stop Russian meddling.
Well, they they mean all patriot news, all pro-American news.
And so I'm telling you the New York Times, the Washington Post CNN, they're in the group.
They're listed.
So that's why they lie so bad.
They believe they're secret agents doing all this lying about us, their job is to take
us off air.
And they say once they've taken us off, they're going to take everybody off.
So this is a literal stay behind row group in the government doing this, Paul.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Down to the level of policing, what individual people can talk about on the internet?
This is the next level.
This is what will happen if we allow them to get away with banning us.
In fact, I wrote an article a week ago, a big article, the social media purge of conservatives
as a giant election meddling scheme.
And in that, I talked about how it's documented there, there were 45, at least 45 top Facebook
employees who had previously worked or volunteered with Hillary Clinton's campaign.
You had the Facebook COO, Cheryl Sandberg saying in the release WikiLeaks emails or
Podesta emails, how, quote, badly she wanted Hillary Clinton to win.
She visited Hillary Clinton multiple times.
Obama's former campaign director openly admitted Facebook was, quote, on our side during the
2012 campaign.
So now you've got these executives going in front of hearings this week, Jack Dorsey
removed a few shadow bans on people.
But meanwhile, New York Times is literally lobbying Facebook to shut down this private
group that we didn't even begin, that we don't even post on, that 90% of the posts or even
more aren't even related to him for was in any way.
And they said, oh, we've shown them the screenshots and they still haven't shut it down.
The obsessive level of meddling and lobbying to get their competition shut down, absolutely
unethical to the T and abuse of their platform, going off the same model that Oliver Dorsey
and CNN did back last month when their lobbying was successful in the end and guys shut down.
So again, in this article, I make the point.
This is chilling.
This is corporate media outlets now trying to control what individual citizens can post
on social media websites, go through the history of how CNN did it.
And again, Jack Dorsey is in front of the committee this week.
Tomorrow, I think it is, I think it's representative from Google and Facebook.
So this is really coming down to the wire now.
We had the petition, we got over 100,000 signatures in three days, that was absolutely
massive.
Of course, no corporate media outlet reported on that.
So this needs to continue to build.
We can't just let it go because they're going to intensify the pressure down to the level
of individual users and what they can post on private Facebook groups that we're not
there.
It's basically a fan page.
We didn't start it.
We don't operate it.
In fact, if you go on it now, you could scroll down and see a nine out of 10 posts that
probably not even related.
At least they weren't earlier today to info wars.
So it's absolutely incredible, the level of censorship that we now see.
Meanwhile, over in Germany, and I'm going to get into this more in the next segment,
there's basically about 10 stories out of Germany.
It's absolutely exploding over there.
Of course, we had the big protests and counter-protest in Chemitz, Germany, where they had a 35-year-old
German citizen who was stabbed by two migrants.
People basically are saying, enough is enough.
They're out on the streets.
Angela Merkel, whose popularity is at a record low, around 30% the lowest in her entire political
career, is calling them all.
Nazis, if you watch the videos like the one we're playing now, it's reasonable, rational
people.
They're not even talking about race.
They're talking about, in this example, a guy who can't even take his wife and his
daughter-in-law into town because they get sexually harassed by Muslim migrants on a
regular basis.
And these are the same stories we hear coming out of all these different German towns.
It was the same story that I saw with my own eyes in Dresden when we went there a couple
years ago for the Bilderberg group protest, gangs of Arab migrants on the streets outside
train stations, the police circle around in a van every half an hour and do absolutely
nothing, harassing young girls.
In one case, these girls getting harassed were not even women.
They were like 14-year-old girls by these Muslim migrants.
It's happening all over Germany.
This is why now AFD, the Anti-Mass Migration Party in Germany, is number two in the polls
in terms of popular support.
It came out of nowhere.
That is absolutely huge.
We've got an election in Sweden coming up next week.
In fact, I think it's on Sunday.
I'm going to do a video about that and cover that more.
Well, literally on one night, a couple of weeks ago, you had 80 different cars set on
fire in numerous different cities around Sweden, even though Sweden is doing in an election
season really well as a country economically, which normally would absolutely guarantee
the ruling party would win that election.
Despite the fact they've got really low unemployment, their economy is pretty decent at the moment.
The ruling party is going to get absolutely crushed because nobody has addressed these
massive problems with violent crime, with cars being set on fire, with terrorism, obviously
we had the attack in Stockholm last year, and with the complete lack of integration of these
huge numbers of migrants that have come across in increasing numbers over the past few years.
Even though their economy is great, even though every other indication should suggest that
the ruling party in Sweden, the social democrats, should win by a canter easily by a landslide,
they're not going to win.
They're going to get their butts kicked.
They're not even going to be able to form a coalition.
It's going to be a minority government, and Sweden Democrats, the only major party that's
promised vowed to address these issues, is basically going to get, the polls suggest
at least 20%, up from 14% in 2014.
But no major party in Sweden, despite the fact that it would enable them to form a majority
government, will dare form a coalition with the Sweden Democrats.
Even though, you know, you could compare them to the AFD in Germany, for example, they're
not even as right wing.
Some people criticize them for not being right wing enough, but they're the only party that's
promised to address this, and coming up in the next segment, we're going to go back into
Germany and tell you about this, because this was what should have been a national news
story.
A gang of Syrian refugees attacking a nightclub, beating guests, shouting, we're going to
kill you all.
This is an absolute shocker.
We're going to get to it on the other side of the Alex German Show Live breaking news
at infowars.com.
We'll be back.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago, when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement, and I've helped thousands of people deal with
tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes, you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, or go to my website, danpilla.com, that's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
It's a no-brainer.
A big, bulky water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey, or bigberkeywaterfilters.com, that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lailani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family
use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at InfoWarsLife.com, because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured, you're fighting the
Info War, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show, and now
your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
Germany is absolutely exploding right now, protests on the streets of Schmitz and these
other countries.
Headline just went up on InfoWars Europe.
Schmitz locals blast German officials media at heated town hall.
Locals from around Schmitz Germany slam mainstream media and politicians who have smeared anti-mass
migration protest as Nazis and far-right extremists during a heated town hall.
They had a small selection, probably a handful of neo-Nazis show up for one of these protests.
And of course, immediately the media pointed their finger and said, oh, they're all neo-Nazis.
They're all far-right extremists.
Angela Merkel, whose approval rating is in the toilet and has been for about a year or
more, called them Nazis basically through a government spokesperson, called them Nazis,
called them far-right extremists.
You watch the videos out of Schmitz, like this one we're playing right now on others.
They just seem like ordinary people who are concerned about the rise in violent crime,
about their daughters, about their wives being harassed in the streets, about what's taking
place on, you know, in their neighborhood.
They're living amongst it.
They know what's happening.
This isn't just an excuse for them to express racism.
They're seriously furious about the changes in society that this mass migration agenda
has had in Germany.
The article goes on to say, present in the meeting, which was aired live by NTV, that's
a shock that they actually broadcast it, given what's happening with the German media, refusing
to cover most of this, but Schmitz, Mayor Barbara Ludwig and Saxony's Minister of President
Michael Kretschmer, one after another, residents voiced their frustration with the radical
transformation of their city by mass migration, the negative effects of which have pushed
the citizens into the boiling point after the death of Daniel Hylig.
He was the guy who was stabbed to death by Iraqi and Syrian migrants.
That's what's touched off the protest in Schmitz in the first place.
He said, I'm sick of the fact that when Germans dare say a non-German committed a crime, they
are immediately condemned as Nazis or right-wing extremists.
And that is exactly the smear that we've seen in recent days.
They found a handful of Nazis doing sick hiles and then suddenly everyone at this protest,
men, women and children who live there, who experienced this change in society, this violent
crime, suddenly they're all neo-Nazis.
Well, no, that's smearing ordinary, decent working-class people who are voicing real
concerns about the impact that mass migration has had on their towns.
Another example of which is this, top story on Infowars.com, Germany, Syrian refugees
attack nightclub, beat guests, shout, Allah Akbar.
Muslim migrants armed with knives and metal bars attacked a nightclub in Frankfurt while
screaming Allah Akbar and we are, this is what they said, quote, we are Arabs, we'll
kill you all.
Literally that's what they said during this attack.
It was an absolute miracle that nobody was seriously injured.
Basically what happened was two Syrian refugees and the police later confirmed that they were
all Syrian refugees started an argument in this nightclub.
This nightclub was having like a 90s dance night.
These two Syrian refugees started an argument, started provoking and harassing guests and
suddenly out of nowhere because Islam is such a tolerant religion of peace, they stood
up and started screaming, quote, we are Arabs, we'll kill you all.
That's going to ruin United, isn't it?
So they eventually left the club after the bouncers kicked them out, whatever, but they
came back.
They came back with reinforcements.
They came back with eight of their friends.
So then you had a total of 10 migrants irate over God knows what armed with iron bars,
armed with knives, shouting, we're going to kill you, shouting, Allah Akbar, which even
though who was it, Jake Tapper said was often said in beautiful moments of peace.
No, it's normally said right before a terrorist attack.
If you've got 10 individuals of Muslim descent shouting, Allah Akbar armed with knives and
iron bars might let you a little bit concerned.
There's definitely going to ruin your Saturday night, isn't it at the nightclub?
According to the chief prosecutor in the case, guests were then attacked and beaten while
the gang threw stones at the building and the victims.
They literally tried to stone people, basically.
The owner of the club said it was a war scene.
We were celebrating the nineties and suddenly we were in a war zone, not in our hometown.
It was spooky.
But I guess he's a neo-nazi too for saying that it wasn't like being in his hometown,
just like Angela Merkel smeared all those decent ordinary people in Chimitz for saying
very similar things.
So this attack continued, literally 10 migrants armed with iron bars and knives attacking
this nightclub.
Some of the guests at the nightclub attempted to hide under cars while others sought refuge
within the nightclub as the migrants in some cases then attempted to stab people, is the
very tolerant and its religion of peace.
The owner said, quote, it was pure horror, sheer horror.
People were hit by stones.
It was indiscriminate.
He said, we had to see if there were any dead or seriously injured people, noting that
it was unbelievable luck nobody was seriously injured.
According to the prosecutor, all 10 of the attackers were Syrian refugees.
Now they only were able to arrest two of them, the two that started the fracar in the first
place, because the next day they attacked somebody in the street.
Then it turned out that one of the individuals had previously attacked someone back in August
with a baseball bat.
These are very tolerant, peaceful people.
So this story, which should be a nationwide story in Germany, it was reported by one German
newspaper.
Can you imagine that in Germany, an attack on a nightclub, people being beaten up?
This would be a national story.
Can you imagine if a gang of 10 neo-Nazis went to a migrant center and started throwing
stones at it, started beating people up with bats, started attempting to stab people as
the migrants screamed and ran away in terror, as the white supremacists did sick hiles and
chanted pro-Hitler slogans.
That would not only be a national news story in Germany, it would be a global news story.
We'd never hear the end of it.
This was in one newspaper.
One newspaper in Germany.
This happened over a week ago.
Nobody's reporting on it, apart from one newspaper, The Morning Post in Berlin.
This is the level of control that they have.
We've done stories in the past where owners of German broadcast outlets have admitted
they don't report on crime stories involving migrants because, quote, they don't want to
rile up resentment amongst right-wing people.
So they literally censor the violent crime that's impacting people in these German towns
and cities in Schimitz most recently.
They'll cover it up deliberately because they think that that's for the greater good.
They literally think that censoring the reality of what's happening in their own country is
necessary and virtuous because it won't embolden the right wing.
Absolutely despicable behavior.
Now guess how the mayor of this town in Frankfurt, this area of Frankfurt, guess how the mayor
responded.
She responded by asserting that most of the areas migrants are well-behaved and don't
commit crimes.
So again, violent crime in Germany has risen.
The government's own statistics admit this.
They admit that 90% of that violent crime is due to, quote, migrants or refugees.
So no.
When 10 armed gang members terrorize and viciously beat and attack people in a story that's basically
covered up by the media, no, the appropriate response is not to say, oh, but these other
migrants didn't do anything.
No, this is a problem.
The violent crime rate is exploding.
We know why.
Talk about it.
Face it.
Deal with it.
OK.
You can't fix the lack of integration that we're experiencing in European cities by silencing
the people who complain about it by paying them home visits because of their offensive
Facebook posts.
Because what happens is yet explosions on the streets.
You get riots.
If people are not having their genuine concerns addressed, then they're going to get more and
more furious, and it's going to end up terribly for everyone.
Address their concerns.
Admit you have a problem and try and do something to fix it, for God's sake.
We'll be back.
This is the Alex Jumpshow Live, June 4th, at dot, com, go away.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you.
But the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Share your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, or order
online, hbextract.com, heart and body extract, 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
InfoWarsLife and InfoWarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winner's
Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winner's Sun is a premium-quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient-dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens, simply put, if you want the best at an extremely
low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent
laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand-new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, and healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, it could become one of our fellow InfoWars
favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Regie extract and Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstores.com.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me, leg.
First demonize InfoWars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility
to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and Islamophobia.
And then, voila, two weeks later, ban InfoWars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter, and give us your
emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our
own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, forward slash show, how they can download
the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information
and coin out.
This is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
News, analysis, reports, it's the Alex Jones show, and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
Before we get back into this news, and I've got more news about Germany, it just never
ends at this point, I want to direct you to infowars.com, of course, The New York Times
or the media publications are lying, they're saying that we're crippled, that we're never
coming back.
We've been able to thrive because of your support, specifically, exclusively because
of your support, and we have numerous great specials available right now for you to take
advantage of, including bodies, which is 50% off, is back in stock for a limited time only.
This is the ultimate turmeric formula used as a medicinal herb for thousands of years.
Turmeric is one of the most studied ingredients known today after a long search for the perfect
turmeric formula.
We've finally got enough bodies back in stock to provide our fellow info warriors with 50%
off.
Now is the time to stock up.
Dead with black pepper, bodies is turmeric supplement that takes advantage of the power
of turmeric, though the 95% of its active ingredients, now we advertise it on the basis
of joint support, mobility support, flexibility support, inflammation support, and immune
support.
Also, if you read the peer reviewed studies about this, has excellent benefits in terms
of mood elevation.
We don't make those claims, but you can go and research them separately for yourself.
What turmeric is basically proven to do so, and our product is bodies, it's 50% off stock
up right now, I think it's a two month supply in one bottle, so you can really stock up
its 60 day supply right there.
Select the auto ship option, so then you don't have to keep remembering to go back and order
it again, and with that auto ship option, which you can do 60, 90, or 180 days, you
get a further 10% off.
Look at those independent reviews for bodies, 4.9 stars out of five, they are independent
certified reviews, 101 reviews, people are absolutely delighted with bodies, the ultimate
turmeric formula.
Support this network, we need your ammunition more than ever in the fight in the Info War
against the mainstream media.
That is 50% off, it's back in stock right now at InfoWarsStore.com, where we also have
ultimate female force, again, at 50% off.
After seeing how much people loved Alpha Power, we decided to make a powerhouse formula, but
exclusively for the ladies in our audience, it is the ultimate female force again, 50%
off at InfoWarsStore.com, get it today.
Now, going back to the news, Nike shares are currently hovering at about minus 2.8%, obviously
there's this boycott going on, minus 2.9% right now.
Headline out of Breitbart, Nike shares drop as Kaepernick had triggers calls for boycott.
Now, obviously the reason that they did this whole campaign with Kaepernick, he's a loser,
he hasn't played football for two years, he's a failure, he's a waste of space.
They're not doing it because they're investing anything in calling Kaepernick as a person
who individually can sell products, okay?
He hasn't played a game for two years, he's not going to inspire a lot of sentiment in
consumers, is he?
They're doing it because this is a form of free advertising.
The virtue signal is the new form of free advertising.
This is a PR stunt on behalf of Nike to get media attention, be it positive or negative.
Yes, they're going to get a temporary crash in the stock for a couple of days, it's down
at about minus 3% right now, but long term, how much is all that free advertising really
worth?
People across the country burning their Nike products, ripping the check mark off the Nike
products.
On the flip side, which is even funnier, you have liberals worshipping, literally falling
all over themselves to worship, a giant transnational corporation, which has become infamous, obviously
over the past few decades, but child labor and mistreating workers.
That is the new face of the resistance, a company that literally hires a child labor
and mistreats workers around the world.
That's the new face of the resistance, and now that they've enlisted Colin Kaepernick
to be the new face of their campaign, they're getting a lot of free advertising, and that's
the entire point.
So boycott or not, which will obviously peter out after a few days, Nike gets what they
want, they get press attention without having to pay much for it.
That was the goal from the very beginning.
Meanwhile, resistance icons fantasize about holding show trials for Trump supporters.
This is the new level of Trump derangement syndrome we've seen the shrieking and the
wailing with the Supreme Court hearing just a few hours ago.
Now we see Gary Kasparoff, this left-wing hysteric, and Bill Crystal, the neocon, both revealing
recently that they're fantasizing about holding show trials for supporters of President Donald
Trump.
It's not enough to literally try to turf him out of office to be part of this deep state
plot to sabotage the presidency, no, that's not enough.
His supporters have to be put on show trials too.
This was a tweet from Kasparoff, he said, those who stand against Trump will move on
to many different things when he's gone, but those who still support him should never
be forgotten or forgiven.
He's literally almost invoking some kind of gulag punishment for the Trump supporters
at this point.
Those who stand against Trump will move on to many different things, that's what he
said.
On the second tweet, which only got a tiny fraction of the retweets and likes as the
first one, which got 10,000 retweets, Kasparoff said, well, I'm not talking about functionaries
attempting to keep the government working despite Trump, but people of influence who
know exactly what he is and enable him for their own gain.
That's what he meant by should never be forgiven, Kasparoff said, quote, for giving a crime
or threat that is still clear and present invites further offence, I'll leave forgiveness
to the next generation when the threat is gone.
What is there to be forgiven?
I mean, for God's sake, this is the point.
If you're resisting, you know, record low black unemployment, record low Hispanic unemployment,
if you're resisting widespread blue collar economic recovery, you're not part of any
resistance.
Okay.
Nike is not part of the resistance.
That's not authentic.
John Brennan is not an authentic part of any resistance.
He's part of the deep state.
You're not part of the resistance.
You're part of the establishment.
Trump was the resistance.
Okay.
You're not part of that.
You're part of trying to overthrow the backlash, the rightful backlash that the American people
had against the deep state, against these corporate monopolies, case in point, right
bar headline, majority of blue collar workers were better off under Trump than Obama.
The majority of blue collar American workers say they're better off today with the economy
under the direction of President Trump than they were during the Obama years, and you
Paul reveals.
Listen to these numbers.
This is the Harris poll of more than 1000 blue collar U.S. workers in fields such as
construction, manufacturing, maintenance, and agriculture, you know, the very kind of
people that President Obama betrayed, he said, shut down the coal plants.
These are the people who are now saying in a majority of 55% of workers, they're better
off with their jobs and economic opportunities than they were five years ago when President
Obama was in the White House because they finally have a president that addresses their
concerns that is trying to get the country running again.
The vast majority, 85% said their lives are headed in the right direction and 69% said
their local communities are on the right track.
The majority of 51% of blue collar workers said the United States is headed in the right
direction under Trump.
So again, this mirrors Europe.
If you look at similar polls in Europe over the past year or so, you will see when they're
asked, when the people of Europe are asked in these different countries, are they more
positive about their children's future than they were before?
In the Czech Republic, in Austria, in Poland, in Eastern Europe, people are way more positive
about the future of their children.
You compare that to places like France.
I think it was 9% of respondents said they were more hopeful for their children's future
over their own.
And it's because those countries, the French, the Germanies, are still embracing this globalism
which has betrayed them at every step of the way, the Eastern European countries are getting
away from that.
They're getting back to a nationalistic, family-based society which actually keeps people happy and
keeps them in gainful employment, actually gives them optimism and hope about their future
and about the future of their families.
Talking about hope or lack of it, South Africa unexpectedly slides into recession for the
first time since 2009.
Well, imagine my shot.
What do you think caused this?
Do you think it's potentially the fact that they could be about to embark on one of the
most suicidal and potentially genocidal policies ever devised?
The same policy that Zimbabwe enacted which led to widespread starvation, the government
seizure of private lands which were stolen by white people, even though they weren't
stolen, they were rightfully acquired, they were bought, they were purchased.
Now South Africa is reeling amid concerns of land appropriation.
The RAND is tumbling, the local economy is collapsing, the Pretoria-based statistics
South Africa announced Q2 GDP contracted at 0.7, they expected a 0.6 increase, it's gone
the other way.
They're already failing because of this ridiculous absurd land grab policy.
We'll be back.
It's the Alex Jones Show Live.
Don't go away.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
You know if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an InfoWars
life.
It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price.
It's stronger.
It's the other equation in probiotics.
It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida.
It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months.
It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins, the amino acids so you can upload it.
Our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified
toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle that's a spray you do.
You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more.
Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering InfoWarsStore.com and remembering that it's not just you that's
already awake but it's other people that aren't awake and it's so essential to spread the
word.
Again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as
you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this
country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield InfoWarsLive.com.
Years ago, InfoWars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew
we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better
product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarko
bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test
of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com, that's InfoWarsLife.com.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your
host, Paul Joseph Watson.
It's the final segment of the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show before we hit some
final news stories out of your corner, tell you about the ultimate bone broth formula
now available for 50% off, that is a giant 50% discount at InfoWarsstore.com at a sale
price of just $19.95, we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've
ever offered, even better ingredients, it's the ultimate bone broth to help you save big
on this new product and stock up, we're dropping the price to just $19.95 at InfoWarsstore.com.
A previous supplier was unable to get the incredible ingredients that we needed to create
this formula while keeping the cost low, since we wanted to make sure that you got the best
value possible, we've now switched to a new supplier with even better ingredients, that's
why now it's the ultimate bone broth formula.
The ingredients include chicken bone broth, turmeric, root, chargar mushroom, bee pollen,
goji berry, alfalfa, herb powder and even more, these powerful ingredients will help
you get the most out of your workout by supporting your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and
ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
The main advantage of that offer today, the ultimate low price of $19.95 for the ultimate
bone broth formula, 50% off available right now at InfoWarsstore.com, please continue
to support this network by buying the products, we need your support more than ever, you can
also see the other specials right there, Brainforce plus 25% off, MycoZX plus 25% off.
These draft of discounts available right now at InfoWarsstore.com, stock up today.
Getting back into this new, there's so much news about Germany, I'm not even gonna get
time to cover it all, number of Germans killed by foreigners highest in years, those numbers
are from the police, but if you talk about it, you're a neo-Nazi, apparently according
to Angela Merkel, Germany repeatedly fails to deport migrant accused of 542 crimes.
This is the level it's got to, but Germany build newspaper report on this, one illegal
migrant who arrived in Germany more than 20 years ago has managed to avoid deportation
despite being accused of 542 criminal acts.
The reason German authorities can't figure out which country to deport him to, oh gee,
I wonder why that is, could it be because he had no papers in the first place and they
just let him in anyway, like always happens, meanwhile the migrant whose name is unknown
has been allowed to roam free.
His rap sheet is extensive, theft, drug possession, assault, he's repeatedly claimed to be from
Algeria and Morocco and other North African countries, however, no state has confirmed
his residency, which is what happens all the time, but they just let them in anyway.
In fact, we had the story a couple of weeks ago about a Syrian refugee woman who spoke
the language, you could tell she tried to integrate, she was, she's one of the, one
of the success stories, but she met on the streets of Frankfurt, I believe it was where
this attack by the way happened, that I talked about in the previous segment, the attack
on the nightclub, she actually met her previous ISIS captor, the ISIS jihadist bodyguard that
had sold her into sex slavery, she met him on the streets of Frankfurt and he'd been
given refugee status just like her, this is what's happening in Germany, this is why people
are out on the streets, Germany, 10 year old boy raped by 10 year old Afghan migrant during
school trip, again, the ages are up for debate, a lot of these late teen migrants claim to
be much younger than they are, there you see the woman who met her ISIS captor on the streets
of Germany after they were both given refugee status, so that's a big story in Germany,
the attack on the nightclub has basically been in one newspaper, that's not even a widespread
story in Germany, Merkel calls concerned German citizen in Schemitz, neo-Nazis that came from
her official spokesman, so if you complain about little boys being raped, if you complain
about women meeting their ISIS captors on the streets of Frankfurt, if you complain about
a migrant accused of 542 crimes not being deported, if you complain about number of Germans being
killed by foreigners being the highest in years according to the police's own numbers,
then you're a white supremacist and a neo-Nazi according to the chancellor of your own country,
wonder why her approval ratings at 30%, what a mystery that is. Germany, majority believe
country gone downhill since 2015 has too many migrants, you see, no matter how many Facebook
posts you delete, no matter how many people you ban off social media, no matter how many
people doors knock on to remind them that they've offended the thought police, you can't
change reality, you can't change the fact that 66% of voters in Germany believe the country's
gone downhill since the mass migration influx compared to just 17% who think that it's
gone better, God only knows what universe they're living in. Meanwhile in Holland, migrant
who stabbed two American tourists cites criticism of Islam as motive, he was offended so he
had to enact his revenge. Again, just don't forget Islam is a religion of peace, it's
just when you offend the believers a bit they violently attack you because they're peaceful.
The Afghan migrant who stabbed two American tourists in Amsterdam says he was motivated
by people in the Netherlands insulting Islam and the Prophet Muhammad. Now let's not forget
the backstory to this, the context, which is that there have been several different examples
in Holland where Islamic terrorists or in one case a left wing extremist attacked people
violently and in two cases assassinated them because they were offended over them making
fun of or criticising Islam. Theo van Gogh, 2004, he worked with Somali born right politician
Ayan Hirsi Ali, you've probably seen her before, who by the way lived in the Netherlands
had to flee to America because she wasn't safe. He produced the film which criticised
the treatment of women in Islam, you can't do that according to the left sacrilege actually
standing up for women's rights that makes you a bigot now. He was shot dead by an Islamic
terrorist in 2004 who was offended over that documentary. Now 2002, Dutch politician Pim
Fortein who was a big gay rights activist was also a staunch opponent of mass immigration
and the spread of Islam because he saw it for what it was in terms of its rampant intolerance.
He was killed days before a national election shot in the head not by a Muslim but by a
left wing extremist who was again offended the fact that Pim Fortein was mean to Muslims
so I guess he deserved to be shot in the head didn't he? That's the reasonable response.
So Holland has this history of people being violently attacked by Islamic terrorists because
they said the wrong thing about Islam. Now public prosecutors have revealed that the
suspect in this recent stabbing who is 19 year old Jawad S they don't give his surname
traveled from Germany to the Netherlands to carry out the attack well because he thinks
the Prophet Muhammad the Quran and Islam are frequently offended in the Netherlands.
So he thinks because Islam is so peaceful that that gives him the right to violently
attack people. The jihadist also mentioned that he was offended over statements made
by right wing Dutch politician and strident Islam critic Wilders. Now of course Wilders
was planning to hold a draw Muhammad cartoon contest in Amsterdam but then a guy posted
a video on Facebook and we featured this in this article as well. He basically said I'm
in the Hague I'm minutes away from where Gert Wilders is going to appear and I'm going to
kill him because I'm an ambassador for the religion of peace. Now thankfully the guy
was such an idiot they uploaded it to Facebook days beforehand the police swooped in and
arrested him but Gert Wilders cancelled the event because he was getting a multitude of
other threats from Islamic terrorists. There was also a Pakistani actor a female who tweeted
that all these people involved in this drama hammock cartoon contest should be hanged again
another expression of the religion of peace. That tweet was up on Twitter but days and
days on end. Nothing happened. Majid Nawaz who is a Muslim reformist through attention
to it. It was finally deleted or she decided to delete it. Was she hit with a seven day
sin bin was she put on the naughty step like Alex Jones was literally calling for people
to be hanged until they're dead. No she didn't get banned for a single minute and that is
the height of hypocrisy that we try to highlight on a regular basis. Nothing whatsoever happened
to her precious Twitter account. Meanwhile in Paris Jewish man beaten in Paris called
dirty Jew another anti-Semitic attack. You have 8000 Jews fleeing France every single
year. I wonder why that is. I wonder why that is. In the small hours of Monday morning
an anti-Semitic attack occurred in Paris. It was 3 a.m. a man was walking between the
7th and 8th are on this someone in Paris when a man driving a motorcycle attacked him. The
motorcyclist tore the chain from around his neck which had a star of David and yelled
quote dirty Jew. Then a second motorcycle came to people got off the vehicle and beat
the Jewish man. They stole his wallet stole his phone. He was left with wounds on his
arms and knees. The attack has fled the scene and have not been found. Of course this is
in Paris where some areas literally have 400,000 illegal immigrants living them in one area
alone in San Denis. I made a video about it. Meanwhile in Sweden Macron the French president
who also has an approval rating of 30% in the toilet has slammed the populist leader
Jimmy Ackerson days before the Swedish election which Ackerson should be thanking him for
because he's so pathetic and hated by everyone to be attacked by him is an endorsement basically
at this point. The endorsement that you're standing up for the right thing. We have a
situation in Sweden where murder is up 40% since 2012. People in Sweden are five times
more likely to be killed or shot than even in Britain which has a massive violent crime
wave. Sweden's election is coming up on Sunday. It's going to be huge. It's going to be part
of the continuing populist backlash against globalism and we'll cover it here on Infowars.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
us. This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout. This incredible
chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom,
goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body. It's time to
experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all new version
of a fan favorite product today at Infowarsstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from Infowarsstore.com you are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at Infowarsstore.com
and I want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad with
colloidal silver and iodine as well. Infowarslife.com or triple A2533139 and your purchase of the
products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
