Trashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the Info War.
The swamp was absolutely horrified in D.C.
They've had 11 hearings that I know of where they lie about yours truly in the First Amendment
and then call for the banning of conservatives, nationalists and patriots across the board.
So I went and spoke at the press conference, I went where the press goes to speak to the
different senators so I could face my accusers, and the corporate media spun it like I was
being disruptive.
Meanwhile, we have video and photos on InfoWars.com of George Soros' groups, known people that
work for Soros, paying the disruptors' cash in the parking lot and then video and photos
of the disruptors, which is well known.
I caught a leftist Soros Bloomberg funded group 17 years ago, no, 18 years ago, it was
in 2000, paying $400 to two young black men to go in and act like gangbangers in front
of the Texas legislature.
And we caught them, there was an ethics committee hearing about it, Hanna Hose and the head
of the committee got in trouble for it.
So I show up, when I was in the front of the USA today concerning Jack Dorsey making the
personal decision not to ban me and Dorsey denying it.
I'm the main topic of the hearings, quote, fake news and censorship, and the media acts
like I'm weird even showing up.
That's the level of their deception.
Now the big news obviously is Trump says snakes are everywhere and clearly this fake New York
Times situation is a composite of different leakers written by a professional writer
at the New York Times.
It is a thing of fiction.
They are not the resistance.
We are the resistance.
Trump is the proud, daring lion amongst the hyenas.
He's helped turn the country around to a 4.6% growth rate projected now currently 4.2, but
the new numbers are going to be 4.6.
Even the Federal Reserve says he's proven they were artificially suppressing us.
And so he's surrounded by traders.
He's surrounded by cowards because the deep state, FBI and leftist CIA is harassing and
bullying and threatening everyone using serious Cold War spy tactics.
And believe me, I know.
I had stuff happen in D.C. and this is the big takeaway that is directly out of a spy
novel and I'm talking to lawyers, a bunch of other people about what I'm going to do.
It would be the day or tomorrow I talk about it for my own safety, but it is next level.
But Mueller is planning to try to frame me, indict me, and then I believe kill me ahead
of them being able to actually have their kangaroo trial.
That's their plan.
They've already tried to kill Stone twice, so this is big league, folks.
It doesn't get any more big league than this.
And when they saw that they're totally blind politically, that I could show up anywhere
I want and take over.
When they saw how they've taken me and built me into Godzilla to frighten the left with
that now when I show up, I am Godzilla.
And so now they're in full panic mode, ladies and gentlemen.
And this is total political warfare where they're saying kill conservative leaders,
kill the president, kill their families, kill everybody.
They're the ones coming after us.
They're the ones that want violence and 61 days out.
What do we tell you they do?
What does this resistance article in the New York Times owned by the Mexican Kingpin say?
Oh, yeah, you're the resistance.
You got the courts, you got the Hollywood, you got the big banks, you got the chai comms,
you got all the media, all the establishment media demonizing this great president.
And what do they say?
The 25th Amendment and what do you have Bernstein and Woodward, all of them are saying, remove
him, remove him, remove him.
He's doing a terrible job.
And the more they do this, the more we love him.
So they just ratchet up now into open political warfare and stuff you wouldn't believe.
They're going around threatening everyone associated with Trump with prison if they don't start
lying about the president.
And they're saying we're going to get you and your family when we take Trump out of
you don't.
It's terrorism.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced four stage compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home.
Including 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the
Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War.
What we've done, so when you tell me about some anonymous source within the administration
probably who's failing and probably here for all the wrong reasons, no.
And the New York Times is failing, if I weren't here, I believe the New York Times probably
wouldn't even exist and some day when I'm not president, which hopefully will be in
about six and a half years from now, the New York Times and CNN and all of these phony
media outlets will be out of business folks, they'll be out of business because there'll
be nothing to write and there'll be nothing of interest.
So nobody has done what this administration has done and I agree it's different from an
agenda which is much different than ours and it's certainly not your agenda that I can
tell you.
It's about open borders, it's about letting people flee into our country, it's about
a disaster and crime for our country.
So they don't like Donald Trump and I don't like them because they're very dishonest
people.
There's also about the New York Times.
When I won, they were forced to apologize to their subscribers.
They wrote a letter of apology, it was the first time anybody's ever done it because
they covered the election incorrectly.
So if the failing New York Times has an anonymous editorial, can you believe it?
Anonymous, meaning gutless, a gutless editorial.
They're doing a great job, the poll numbers are through the roof, our poll numbers are
great and guess what?
Nobody is going to come close to beating me in 2020 because of what we've done.
We've done more than anybody ever thought possible in, it's not even two years.
So thank you very much, I appreciate it.
Now only 61 days to the most important election in world history and I look at Trump, that
bull, that lion surrounded all the hyenas and all the liars and all the scum like Hillary
Clinton and Robert Mueller, dishonorable, evil wicked people with so many crimes, so
many wars, so many child kidnapping rings, so much narcotics trafficking under their
belt and you see Trump out there with all his morals and all his strength, like a North
Star to bring this country back and they put out all these lies and all this propaganda
to try to turn you against him as they pushed for the 25th Amendment to be implemented to
remove him now before the midterms because Kavanaugh is going to get confirmed and there's
going to be a huge red wave despite the election fraud and all the people voting in the names
of dead people and they're now in full panic mode.
But I got to tell you, I can't talk about it yet.
But undoubtedly the most insane thing happened to me yesterday that is like nothing you've
ever seen in a movie concerning Russia gay.
But I already knew what they were doing to everybody's families around Trump and the
intimidation and the threats, but it is just unbelievable.
And I got calls into law firms, I got a bunch of the stuff going on, but believe me, if
Mueller thinks that I'm not going to release all this, he's got another thing coming.
You guys are crazy.
And it shows that they are going for broke.
They are mad dog.
I mean, that guy on screen, if you're a TV viewer, delivered uranium to the Russians
for Hillary to do uranium transfers of 25% of our uranium.
And then he tells us that Trump's a Russian agent.
And because they're the globalists that sold the country out and because they're the outside
power that hates flyover country that says America was never great, will never be great
because they want the economy to plunge, Bill Maher, you've heard them because of that.
They've got to say we're all Russian agents, so they have a way to overthrow Trump, overthrow
the 2016 election and have federally globally controlled elections where we never have real
elections again.
America was on its deathbed, ladies and gentlemen.
So despite all the epic stuff that happened yesterday at the hearings and the Rubio situation
and me confronting the head CNN thought police officer, Oliver Darcy, who admittedly goes
around and runs the banning of major sites like Info Wars and others off of major platforms.
He sat there to my face and said none of that's happening.
So let's pull up 10 or 15 of the articles here where he was calling for me to not have
my book published and calling for folks to take me down off Twitter and saying, look,
he's violating your rules, take him down and then him getting credit for it and he sat
there right into the camera and said, nope, no one's taking you off.
I'm not involved, no.
The total disrespect for the truth, total arrogance, total inversion of reality.
So that's all coming up, ladies and gentlemen.
Now they've had 11 hearings that I know of.
I'm always finding new ones in the last year and a half saying, I'm a Russian agent.
I'm a racist.
I'm fake news that I say nobody died at Parkland in Florida, never said that.
You know, they can out of context twist that on the Sandy Hook.
So what are they going to do?
They're going to frame me for being a Russian and that's what they're planning to do.
100% confirmed.
They tried to do it to me yesterday and I was just polaxed.
I mean, I couldn't believe the nature of it and the folks that did this, they don't think
I'm not going to go public.
I mean, oh yeah, let that fuse be lit politically.
You don't know when that's going to go sky high, do you?
Probably the next three hours.
So like I said, I don't know how this is all going to end, but you want to fight, you better
believe you got one because DC is full of a bunch of cowards and a bunch of followers
and a bunch of people intimidated by thugs on top and Trump's been watching all his life
and sick of it and he thought he could go turn the country around wouldn't be hard because
they were artificially bleeding it on purpose.
That's admitted.
If you had the courage, the hard parts, the courage to be attacked, but you can just get
in there and follow basic Americana free market will be the richest country in the world like
we always were.
We got the right stuff.
I got something and it's super bad.
I got something tells me what to do.
So we're here.
This is the fight for America.
This is the globalist attack.
This is going on.
Everyone should choose a side.
Most people that serve the system near the top do it out of abject fear.
They do it because they're threatened into it.
They do it because they live lives of fear and insecurity and it's all done in the name
of the country.
But what they really mean is it's done in the name of the corrupt organizations and
groups that have hijacked this nation and they have total disdain for you and your family.
It's like the Oliver Darcy guy who has some of the most evil but not evil in a powerful
way like the most pathetic dishonest eyes.
They just ooze betrayal and weakness and just a very effeminate type of evil but it's not
effeminate, it has that twistedness when it's in a man's eyes and just someone totally
turned over to deception going I never said take you off, no one ever took you off, you've
not been taken off anything.
Just that enjoyment like Marco Rubio said you don't exist, I know who you are.
As if denying I exist gives him some power, that's what they do.
Any other person that looks more evil is Brian Sculter and then you ask why do they hire
these guys because that's who they are, the executives like it and that's who wants to
dominate you and run your life.
We come back, I'm going to get to the fake New York Times artist, people say who is the
source, it's a composite made up by the New York Times as I said last night and it's just
a bunch of cowards who have been in and out of the administration who get threatened by
Mueller and everybody and their wives get threatened and so they roll over like dogs
and show their bellies, well there are a few Texans left in this country baby and I'm not
rolling over to nothing, in fact I just put the accelerator down at a dramatic speed.
If you like alkaline water or know someone that does, you're going to love the Dillon
Living water bottle, it creates alkaline water on the go while reducing plastic waste and
saving you money.
If you're made with surgical grade stainless steel, the Dillon bottle increases the pH
up to 9 to deliver both alkaline and antioxidant water anywhere you want it.
Alkaline water is healthier, tastes better and can even boost energy.
The Dillon bottle makes it easy and affordable to be healthy and achieve optimal hydration.
Get your Dillon bottle today at dyln.co, that's dyln.co.
Healthcare reform is confusing but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
When you use public wifi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords, that's why I use private
internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing
anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
Privateinternetaccess.com, it's time to protect your online privacy.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com.
We're call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you
need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
for your body and for regularity and so much more, and it synergistically works with our
50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well as Myco ZX that targets the yeast,
the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products.
You can get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high
quality products at the same time, and I'm doing this to introduce these products to
you.
These products sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come
up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out, and I think it's going to be the same way
with this fiber.
Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say, I don't know what's going
to happen at the end of this, but you want to fight, you better believe you've got one.
Unfortunately, I seek his liberty from my family and your family.
I am so honored to stand with President Trump, the stamina, the energy, how smart he is,
and then you read the news, and it's he's weak, he's stupid, he's racist, he's bad.
He hates Southerners, but no tapes of any of it, all complete garbage, and the lies get
more elaborate, more insane, more out of control, and here's the takeaway.
We're 61 days out, they know they're going to lose the midterms, all the internal polls
show it, they've got bots that can track it all, not the fake polls, and they know the
Democratic Party has lost the people, a total political realignment's happened.
Normally that happens, then the new one party splits into a couple more or into a second
party.
When they know that, they want to ban the election, hold new ones that are staged, and
then split the Democratic Party into two new parties, a Communist wing and a Socialist
wing.
That's what you see happening with the Democratic Party right now, and all these Socialists
and Communists winning primaries.
And they admit in their white papers they're doing this, people say, how does he know all
this?
Because I actually read this instead of watching football and baseball.
And I'm not saying you're bad if you want to watch football, I'm not saying you don't,
I kind of want to go down and see a Houston Astros game or whatever.
The point is, is that I can't do it because we're in a total war.
So I cannot hype enough to you, I don't have words to describe to you how dire the situation
is.
This country's on an emergency operating table, our heart stopped, you the listeners of this
broadcast, InfoWars, President Trump, DrudgeReport.com are the literal defibrillators that started
the heart back.
And they said, oh, you're dead, well, now we're sewed up, we're walking around, we're
on a walker, but we can get a lot better.
And they're like, no, no, no, lay back down, lay back down.
And they want to have you lay down and inject you with a lethal injection, ladies and gentlemen.
They want the control, we have the audio tapes of them saying better cleaners, they hate
Christians and saying it publicly.
We have them cheering, America was never great, it'll never be great.
We have them saying they want a depression.
We have Silicon Valley that I told you 10 years ago is building giant bunkers in New
Zealand.
And they had the media attack me 10 years ago, Jones claims the elite are moving to
New Zealand and building bunkers.
I was told it by a gentleman who builds dams around the world, who's very rich.
And I'm going to leave it at that, who said they're planning something big, they're doing
major projects that are 50 million, 100 million, 200 million dollar projects in New Zealand.
For in case of a societal complete breakdown, of course, they're engineering it.
Next decade's news today, Bloomberg this week, the super rich of Silicon Valley have a doomsday
escape plan, exactly what I told you.
That's why they want me off the air, folks.
Not because I'm fake news, but because I'm real news.
And they realized that I can go anywhere I want and take over the media.
And they can't stand it.
And they know that our numbers went up when they banned us.
They can't stand that.
And so I'm telling you, they're making their move on me because they're making their move
on you.
If you want to pull up the article from like eight, nine years ago, and there's more just
a type in Hollywood elite moving to New Zealand in fours dot com or James Cameron moves to
New Zealand to avoid bio weapon release.
That's the real reason.
See, there's a leftist global plan that once they collapse the third world and scare the
first world enough, they're going to let it enough to create political division.
About 100 million in Europe, 100 million in the US, then they're going to build giant
walls.
And part of this, because he's doing it early to stop the crisis, they're going to build
the walls later, bring in total biometric control and a police state to counter the
collapsing third world.
And then they're going to release a bio weapon that's going to wipe out the first round two
or three billion people.
And then once they get a real hyper police state in after that, then they'll deliver the
true super weapons and then they will retire to their labyrinthine policies while we kill
each other.
But they've got to have automated military forces and drone forces to carry out suppression
and mop ups for some computer models they've got that human directed forces and by that
people directed for a pro human future would be able to basically understand the plan even
once it was launched and then run a countervailing system that would then remove the planetary
cleansing operation that they are preparing.
So the real reason I'm verboten is because there is a planetary cleansing operation prepared
to reduce world population by 99%.
They tell university students 80%, but you're part of the elite 20%, they're going to save
the earth because you're an environmentalist, you're anti human, you're anti God, you'll
be part of the priest class because they don't tell them it's 99%, they can do the math knowing
they're going to be killed as well.
So tell low level folks at the first entry level, we're going to kill 80%.
Then at higher levels, they say, well, it's actually 90%.
And then at the highest levels, they say 99% except one level above that, the final level
because there's always a hidden level, they say, actually, our God tells us we must transcend
humans and merge with silicon and that humans are actually a curse to the universe and that
our God will only let us ascend to Godhood once the human race has been completely eradicated.
And that is the, they believe the interdimensional transmission they're receiving, of course
we are in deep space, that does sound quite like a plan, doesn't it?
But regardless, that's what they believe and they're building the plan for Lucifer and Lucifer
plans to kill, steal and destroy and if God doesn't intervene, there will not be any flesh
spared revelation.
So you need to understand that they are going to kill you and your family for sure if they
have their way and you have to understand that why is Elon Musk having his company destroyed
and sabotaged?
They believe that people in there, I knew this six months ago, but now it's confirmed
blowing up stuff in his plan because he's been in these meetings and said, I don't want
to be part of it, he's come out and told you, beware of those that worship AI gods, they
plan to get rid of everybody by 2050, it's a nightmare plan.
Oh my God, humanity, please wake up and now his company is to be destroyed.
They're like, hey dude, we let you in the club and you said, no, now we're going to slowly
destroy you and discredit you everywhere and that's why you see them doing that.
So it works and so at the end of the day, none of these globalists are going to make
it out of this.
Whatever it is they're building will kill everybody in the end.
There won't be one Luciferian person left, they succeed this program standing there in
this system, supposedly going to merge with some Silicon God and ascend and they're going
to be deceived of course in the end.
That's how it works and that's it, you're not living in a science fiction book, you're
living on a planet in deep space baby, orbiting a standard sun and you're living in the future
and it's here and you're facing a satanic interdimensional attack.
Let's talk tough, let's talk comfort, let's talk about down home value made in the USA
Blue James, like you wore as a kid, remember, there's a place down in Tennessee where they
make blue diamond gusset jeans, they so pride in every stitch, guarantee you love the way
they fit, they put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most, blue diamond
gussets got it, others don't, for good old fashioned comfort, get diamond gusset jeans,
every stitch guaranteed and our Defender motorcycle jean comes Kevlar reinforced, see them at
gusset.com or call 888-848-7738, that's 888-848-7738, diamond gusset jeans got it, others don't.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution, I mean I
cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com
and I want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal
silver and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or 888-353-3139 and your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the infowar to fight the globalists and live in a free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the infowar
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show from the front lines of the information war.
Watch me watch me I got something that makes me want to shout I got something that tells
me what to do sometimes I need to tell me what to do sometimes I feel so nice I want
to say this again I'm going to say this again I'm going to say it very very slowly so the
audience gets it but what horrifies the bureaucrats seeing in the New York Times is Obama openly
set up a CIA office in the last defense authorization act and I know you're like Alex you say this
every day I know for two years because that's how they're funding and doing all this and
they're using spies training reporters how to intimidate and threaten people and then
they've got a rogue group in the FBI and Justice Department running around terrorizing everyone
and we're going to get to that and they're going and threatening people that they need
to set up me and Roger Stone or they're going to go to prison.
They have gone into criminal overdrive and they're doing things so criminal it's like
when a bank robber gets caught and he grabs a little girl and puts a gun to their head
I mean they're at the gun to the head they go and get back get back get back and there's
Trump totally competent kicking by an economy coming back all these great things and they
are saying remove him and this is meant to make him totally paranoid this fake New York
Times piece.
Yes obviously it's Nikki Haley is one of the main sources and one of his former lawyers
but it's a composite professionally written by the New York Times as Anastasia Suza and
others have said.
The kingpin owned New York Times is not the resistance we're the resistance we're the
ones being de-platformed we're the ones under siege Trump's the one under attack and you
just crack the door to letting us in and everything gets better because baby we believe in America.
I'm in the cult of America and you can feel it she's in a lot of trouble right now and
so I'm not scared at all I've got to mentally know that whatever happens guys don't take
care of my children you get to the point we got to tell your kids I took them to school
this morning someday your daddy's not going to be here you just need to be good people
and be strong and stick up for each other do what's right but when you come to that
point you're already starting to say bye to your kids you know how close we are to midnight
folks but you know what it makes you want to do it even more because we're facing true
unadulterated pure evil pure that has a will to dominate us but you know what I have a
will to be free and the stuff going on behind the scenes I'm going to reveal soon is is
beyond anything you've ever heard of in the Soviet Union and the fact that these people
get away with this in impunity makes me love Trump even more and love you even more and
what we've done together it is so beautiful I was in the halls of Congress and they have
these professional agitators that have been caught being paid by Soros the Democrats disrupt
everything and they'll come over you go oh god here comes a zombie because they could
be black they could be white they could be Hispanic they look like somebody sucked their
soul out their arms are always hanging at their side or they they'll just scream out
stupid stuff and you try to talk to them they can't even talk and they say everybody else
groveling to the political class and it's like everyone's afraid of this this is what's
hijacked our country this is shameful this is dishonorable we have a pack of criminals
in Washington and they have the nerve then to say that Trump's a liar and Trump doesn't
stand for anything all Trump's done is deliver on what he said he would do he's neurotic
about it Roger Stone joins us but I'm gonna just say this briefly because I tend to not
plug and if I don't plug we won't be here this is gonna be a long haul they wanted Trump
out by last December they failed they want them out in the next 61 days they had met
at 25th Amendment it's all in this fake New York Times piece meant to make Trump paranoid
meant to make him go crazy I watched him bounding around on C-SPAN last night he's totally energized
he's a fighter like me like Roger Stone Roger and I have never been more alive Trump's never
been more alive look at him that's a lion right there on your screen I am so thankful
to God and my ancestors that I'm an honorable person and that I knew in my gut to line up
with that guy right there and I tell you wherever this train's going I'm on it and everybody
knows it and Trump's gaining in the polls even the fake ones we're breaking their corrupt
will right now and you're about to see their maximum push but I think if the Democrats
in deep state get their hands on a nuke they're gonna try to nuke Trump I think more and more
that's what they're gonna do or crash the stock market because they want to crash it
before they kill him or a movie or drug they could give him something to make him you know
have a heart attack too I just pray for President Trump pray for info wars pray for Roger Stone
and get great products you need I need you to go buy t-shirts I need you to sign up for
auto ship and fish oil and turmeric and all the other great products and for his life
dot com and you stood with us this long and we're gonna continue to move forward despite
the attacks but I can tell you watching the cowardice of other people not our audience
but the cowardice of other people in the political system kind of keep their heads down we're
losing everything because we kept our heads down and thank God we got somebody like Trump
the champion show whether it's brain force or whether it's any of these great products
they're 40 50% off the Labor Day specials gonna go until tomorrow and then we've got
to end it there'll be some new specials but whether it's loyal silver eye nine four to
five toothpaste floor I'd free whether it's the great ultimate turmeric formula or whether
it's the super silver strongest over-the-counter silver out there it's all info or store dot
com and I want to thank you all your support I would see our supporters they had lighten
their eyes amazing matter what color they were they had a spirit of goodness and I'd
see the enemy and they were either these these demonic power gods who were like crippled
by their lust for power or they were like zombies and it's just such an epic time so
Roger I know you've been going through massive insanity and just major political assaults
Gestapo tactics you name it but let's let's talk about Trump right now just just as we're
about to go to break clearly as you predicted a year ago they're doing 25th Amendment they're
everywhere saying it they're making their move do you agree the classic example yet again
of info wars having tomorrow's news today we've been talking here info wars about the
25th Amendment play by the deep state and the two-party duopoly the president based
on some early bad advice from his son-in-law and others has put a number of deep state
quizlings right inside his administration and it's possible if this New York Times editorial
isn't a total fraud that it was written by Elaine Shaw for example the red Chinese operative
who was married to the Senate majority leader and who was the longest serving member of
the George W. Bush cabinet why you would appoint such a person is an odd question or maybe
it's John Huntsman who openly trashed Donald Trump during the presidential campaign but
currently serves as our ambassador to you guessed Russia no I think that the soft coup
is in full gear now this is why they're going after you it's why they're going after me
but we're not important it's Donald Trump they're going after and this bullet is aimed
at his head I say rhetorically and let's hope it's just rhetorically because these people
are hysterical and there's no limits to what they might do we're gonna come back and get
into how Trump should strike back and what he should do but even a lot of globalists
say don't remove Trump it'll blow up in their face but I think they're so crazy they're
gonna try to do it it's an it's entirely possible Alex we they're like cornered rats
now with uh with millions of new jobs and record economic growth they see the handwriting
on the wall and they're desperate to remove Trump before he totally revives the country
that's right they've been running us in the ground by design now we've got the wheel partially
away everybody can see we're steering out of the thunderstorm into beautiful blue skies
and they are pissed to turn us back in to hell we knew it was coming the whole thing
was for me leg first demonize info wars lie about us build a straw man then sue us to add
credibility to that then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms
like bullying children and Islamophobia and then wallah two weeks later ban info wars
completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top
ten news feeds go to info wars dot com forward slash show subscribe to the free podcast just
click on the link whatever you're subscribing to your podcast and it'll pop up there it's
also critical to go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter and give us your email so
that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform
but whatever you do tell folks about info wars dot com forward slash show how they can download
the free android and iphone apps how they can then reach out to others with the information
and point out this is the verboten info this is what they don't want you to see staying
healthy on the go is just as important as staying healthy at home but sometimes supplements
don't work fast enough that's why info wars life has created a powerful new addition to
the super blue line super blue silver immune gargle available in one ounce three and a
half ounce and sixteen ounce bottles immune gargle is perfect for the bathroom kitchen
or wherever you go the incredible new purifying formula is dentist recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean as a powerful hand purifier or oral cleansing
formula just a small spray will help you stay clean when you feel surrounded by toxins with
powerful yet simple ingredients immune gargle features silver soul nano silver for a powerful
cleansing alternative with super blue silver immune gargle staying toxin free is easy
and affordable helps stop the spread of toxins and stay healthy with super blue silver immune
gargle only available at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com real red pill plus
ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve
our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan
favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse
pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart brain healthy
aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful pregnant on base the
real red pill it could become one of our fellow info wars favorite products now with an extra
proprietary energy blend inside including green tea extract your mod day leaf extract and more you
can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way got all the great
stuff that real red pill has it's also got the most edit get the real red pill plus at info
war stores dot com you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic
formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l
tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our
natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the
sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep
support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the
sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com you're listening to the alex
jones show live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones info wars dot com
news wars dot com coming up the next hour i got some of the amazing hd highlights of the press
conferences and confronting the head of a cnn secret police operations who engages in thought
crime detection and eradication that means the first amendment amazing stuff coming up next
hour a bunch of clips i haven't gotten to a ton of other news but they're intensifying their
lives roger we were talking this morning how it's all been scripted the last few weeks with
just amorosa and then this and then that just one fake thing after the next and then we discover
okay the witnesses say they didn't tell bob woodward this but by then we're on to the next line
till it's just such a crescendo and you can see how it's all the same script he's incompetent
he's a moron he hates southerners he hates black people he's a fake but then if he's such an idiot
how do you get elected and then how things turned around it's it's the same new york times that
told us that there was a 98 chance hillary was going to win for two years yeah you can see this as
an orchestrated campaign to dominate the news cycle so you had three days of amorosa five days
of john mccain which is kind of like you know at the beach with bernie uh then you had the woodward
thing but that didn't stay up there very long because it got knocked down so quickly so now
we have the phony new york times anonymous editorial by the way i have an editorial
coming up at stone cold truce it's anonymous but it's from a senior official at the clinton
foundation who says that hillary held the women down while bill raped them it's it's just as
credible as the new york times it's anonymous of course but we stand by it senior senior clinton
a foundation official this is such transparent bs that it's that it's it's almost laughable
if the mainstream media didn't pick up this stuff and run with it like a pack of rabid dogs
and that's the thing is that the rabidness is just accelerating with 61 days left to total cuckoo
land where the stuff they're doing to me that i'll be able to cover soon i'm checking with lawyers
is so insane and so obvious and so over the top i am russians here a bag of money i mean it's
getting cuckoo land you know the thing that's that's interesting though alex and i was thinking
about this last night is president trump has had a number of really historic first but he has never
once gone to the american people with an oval office address something that's been very effectively
used by all of his president i've been saying this he needs to be doing them every week until the
election well he needs to do one now he needs to take action declassify all of the uh of the
fiso warrant material would be an excellent start uh and then go to the american people and explain
why he's doing this it would get the the far left and the democrats and the deep staters
on defense as opposed to offense they've got a track record of lies and criminality
that he has the keys to exposing he needs to do it and then take his case right to the american
people like reagan he's a great communicator he speaks the people's language but he should he
should avail himself of the bully pulpit and he should do a televised address to the nation the
time has come i totally agree with you roger and again words cannot describe how critical this
moment and juncture in history is you've accurately predicted with precision how they'd roll out what
when they roll it out with 61 days left what do you expect him to do with all of the talking heads
saying remove him both parties remove him and nicky hayley but you know behind the scenes working
against him and uh you know pence going and parading around at mccain's funeral i'm not trying to
attack pence i hope he's a good guy but looks like he's hedging his bets i mean it's so obvious
that all of this is a load of garbage well you know the most disturbing part about this
was our recognition that the takedown of info wars was the precursor to all of this the last
thing they want is us out there every day every night pounding away at their former their phony
narrative so that's why you could tell when they moved on us when one fateful day they suddenly
removed info wars from virtually every viable social media platform that that that's this was
related to something big that the big event was coming now we see precisely at what it is the
attempted takedown of the president in a 25th amendment coup when you have uh voices as diverse
as uh uh steve schmidt uh andrew quomo or pardon me chris quomo all on the same message
republicans and democrats must get together and realize the trump presidency is a national
crisis and remove him no the national crisis is what was left to us by the bush clinton
obama combine that ran this country into the ground that's the crisis trump is cleaning up
their mess and now uh the the the takedown of info wars was integral because they don't want us out
there with the clarion call they realize that you're a modern day paul revere alex they got to
shut you up because you're going to tip everybody off as to what is coming that's why they have been
so spectacularly unsuccessful in their attempts to silence us you try to shut alex jones up he's
just going to yell louder don't you get it well here's the thing and i'm not bragging because i
don't want to intentionally make these very wicked criminal you know individuals that lie about
wmds and kill millions and fund arab springs and they're trying to break our families up i mean
the ruling establishment's very very cold-blooded but when i went in there and in front row stared
in mark warner's face who we know is behind the censorship with obama in the executive orders
you name it he looked genuinely scared of me uh and when i was around everybody else uh they just
it was like in the senate in the house they'd have doors open just pointing like godzilla had
just come out of the ocean and it shows really how pathetic they are because everyone else just
worships these senators and worships these people little marco rubio comes out with this big giant
pharynge ears and says oh who are you i didn't even get in his press conference we were waiting
in the hall to interview him that's what you do and and and then he says i don't know who you are
i swear to god i don't you know saying i don't matter everyone sees through this it shows how
insane they are and then coming up next hour i have a cnbc clip where i'm ranting about authoritarian
ism and how they're shutting down the independent media and they cut the live feed so this is all
coming up in the next hour roger but it is just a hysterical time for these people you know i think
a serious question here would be is marco rubio literally the only person on planet earth who
doesn't know who alex jones is i mean i know you were very upset about this almost despondent
that he doesn't know who you is you are alex i mean what cave did this guy live in to not recognize
what's going on to conservative and republican voices on the internet marco rubio is allegedly
a conservative republican he seemed oblivious to the entire issue of internet censorship
and obsessed only with how the russians and the chinese may be censoring people
uh i i can't even figure out what what planet this guy is on or how anybody can be this detached
from reality well another thing they in that video he has even less hair than i thought he had
well in some of the articles they claim that i assaulted him all i did was barely pat him on
the arm when he first walks over i said hey you were talking about china and censorship thank you
hey let's get into some of the other stuff he just starts laughing at me and wouldn't even answer my
question about conservatives being the platform doesn't he get what a popular subject that is
and that would endear him to his audience well and jack posobic from uh you know uh
one american news tells me he was sweating profusely so clearly you put this guy on the spot um he's a
lightweight as you know i would predict you right now he doesn't fill out this senate term if the
republicans are successful in electing a governor in florida i think rubio will leave the senate to
cash in on his deep state connections uh but to to say that he doesn't know who you are and
to refuse to engage you in a respectful debate on the legitimate issue of internet censorship
just shows you what a pussy he is well let's be clear i was in the front page of a bunch of papers
everywhere about jack dorsi saying he didn't ban me and but he also didn't give the order not to ban
me the hearings were partially about me he knows full well who i am they were talking about me in
the hearing an hour before so he's sitting there saying i'm not going to respond to you it's another
form of censorship i mean i'm saying hey let's let's fight censorship i don't know who you are
so it's very orwellian yeah he's the little lord frontthroy of american politics i mean he is so
very precious and so very fragile he's also as you have to admit much shorter than you thought he
would be which is why the president called him a little marco well it's not bad that he's short i
mean it's just that he's so arrogant we'll be right back with here with him if you want another
truth i'm only like five eleven and a hunch over it's about five six actually four feet tall the truth
is i like marco rubio and i wanted to be friendly and actually try to get him to talk about censorship
but that didn't happen said he acts like a tough guy remember we've got big sales that are about to
end 50% off of any of our best-selling items we're about to sell out of some of them like bodies
ultimate turmeric formula info or store dot com stay with us we're bringing back one of the biggest
fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients ultimate bone broth
info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits
this incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra
high quality bone broth one of the most popular health trends on the planet built with more than
seven different superfoods and crucial compounds ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy
muscles digestion tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals
this incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric
root chaga mushroom goji berry powder bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body it's
time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you get a bottle of the all-new version
of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com
as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs
with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the
necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily that's why info wars life
created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of advanced
multi vitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the
effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body using a proprietary process
we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's
loaded with high quality ingredients perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin
mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more
start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with
vitamin mineral fusion today available at infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
all right roger stone's looking for two more segments then i'm going to get into the geopolitical
news not popularity drops 34 percent as jin z rejects cavernic ad campaign just like the
nfl's down 40 something percent but they don't stop because it's in their own new york san francisco
insane asylum bubbles we want to see some guy that made 80 million dollars it's a spoiled brat
running around pee peeing on the american flag going back to roger stone we got a really funny
marco rubio intro next segment but i almost can't have fun here because yeah we had a big victory
lap as you called me last night said well great job i wanted to go confront my accusers and they
couldn't believe it they looked horrified and now they're even more horrified that they don't get
as they kick us off cyberspace we just go take over the third dimension like the info wars army
we've launched that's totally peaceful saying get information out wake people up uh they're
really starting to get scared i think roger well and that's why elwin schreuer and are going to set
up a go fund me for our new bullhorn fund in other words we want members of the info wars army
to be armed with multiple bullhorns to make sure their voices are heard uh it is uh it is a an
excellent example of grassroots activism you saw the way a bunch of bratty punks who were paid by
the democrats busted up a uh a judicial hearing uh based on their deep commitment to transparency
except for transparency when it comes to hillary clinton's missing 33 000 emails in that case they
they don't like transparency quite so much here's what i don't think they understand alex and that
is that people like us and david night and oh and and so many others there at info wars
we're not in this for the money or the glory or the or the uh you know the acclaim we're in it
for the fight if we wanted to do this for money we'd be on the mainstream media side of things
it'd be much easier to make a living you would get more coverage you would get the fawning
coverage of the fake new york times and the failing washington post we're in this for the fight
and when people go to the info wars dot com store and they buy one of our great products or a
t-shirt or they buy one of my books that money's not going in our pockets that money's going back
into info wars for additional people and and legal and let's explain we have an instinct the spirit
to not want to be slaves sure money's fine sure but we're not trying to get more powerful in the in
the corrupt stagnant system we're trying to change that system and here's the good news thanks to
listeners everybody's support we're doing it roger well that's what was so aggravating last week
when nbhc said roger stone keeps talking about being indicted by muller uh because he's seeking
publicity and he wants to raise money to line his pocket they were the ones saying it i mean if 12
if 12 people work for you went to the grand jury if cnn reported that that muller's going through
all your banking records what would you think it's it's absurd so when you get out ahead of it
these people say act like you're trying to profit here on the system well that's the
thing is this is double speak cnn will say ban alex jones and all other conservatives and go
ahead and put them in prison and they'll have three senators say it and then they'll have
oliver darcy the very guy spearheading it go on tv and say no one's taking alex jones off he's
insane i mean it's it's like what are they doing they lie segment to segment yeah it's kafka ask
that darcy guy did not do well uh yesterday i thought that you exposed him as the fraud that he
really is um uh it was there was a total mr jones goes to washington moment and i got to congratulate
you because you had the courage to go right there into the lion's den and confront the the face of
evil i mean did you see dick blumenfall from connect the dead eyes the guy who lies about his
non-existent vietnam service these people are zombies and worse you're right we've got some
of the little marco rubio coming up and then i've got a boil down of uh talking to the twitter
ceo trying to get questions to him uh and of course talking to the man that looks like a possum
that just climbed out of the carcass of a dead cow when i said that to him he said oh you already
said that before like oh you were watching that's what you look like i mean the possum coming out
of the end of a dead cow i've seen it before they have a look on their face like they've
done something wrong hold me right back you got some evil eyes boy do you realize that when you
spread the links from info wars dot com when you spread the videos you are changing the world
it's you that has defeated hillary and the glove list it is you the info warriors across the planet
that stood against the bullying that stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
that have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team supporting us praying
for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship
it's more important than ever that everyone go to info wars dot com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos
articles breaking news intel you name it and so now i ask you more than ever to share the info
wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to
the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash
newsletter we are the renaissance and we are winning so i have a first amendment because
they're you know about authoritarian regimes they're lying about me and they're trying to
deplatform me 26 companies working in concert violating the sherman any trust act and now
senator warner and senator widen have said quote there's thousands of sites worse than alex jones
so we're becoming like cuba we're becoming like vietnam we're coming like china so regardless
what we'll think about me you're the straw man should i have a first amendment or should these
companies be able to to violate the whole safe harbor hack to all that and then ban conservatives
en masse i don't know anything about your slightly to get the employee at youtube on tape admitting
that they do it i mean you must be a threat if they call you out by name alex jones alex jones
alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones is a lunatic
because i know that these are legitimate news organizations and if at that point somebody
decides you're going to scroll past that and go find alex jones well if they were looking for him
he'd be in with anyone that might have some threat to this country there's a guy on the radio his name
is alex jones alex jones there's a lot of controversy around this network about alex jones for example
It's time to stop submitting to this charity.
It's time to realize that we're being enslaved.
I heard that on Alex Jones.
Info Wars went even further.
Info Wars. It's a radio show hosted by Alex Jones.
We are in an information war.
And we are losing that war.
Nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great man.
InfoWars.com.
Info Wars comes to mind.
Info Wars.
So right now the war is the Info War.
You watch Info Wars?
Info Wars.
I got a chain going.
Looking at widely reported information from Info Wars.
Info Wars.
Info Wars.
InfoWars.com.
I want freedom! That's what I want!
And that's what you should want!
Hello, this is Hank Hill.
And I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
Well, there you go.
Marco Rubio.
They have this arrogant thing they do where Oliver Darcy of CNN
that nobody watches and listens to,
but his main job is getting conservative libertarian
pro-Trump media off the internet.
He admits that to our face.
He just said, no, that's not true.
No one's taking you off.
I've never called for you to be censored.
There's hundreds of tweets and dozens of articles
and dozens of newscasts where he sits up there with Stelter pushing it.
We're going to put some of those clips together.
Why would Marco Rubio
comes out of the door where the press waits for senators to come out?
I didn't interrupt his conference.
I started asking him questions.
He ignored me.
He started talking to them.
So I started interjecting.
He's talking about Chinese censorship.
Good.
What about happening here?
So he goes, man, I don't know who you are.
I don't know who you are.
He goes, I swear to
God.
I don't know who you are.
And everybody's like, this is ridiculous.
What is the point of that, Roger Stone?
That's elitism.
That's an elitist snub,
which I think backfired very badly on.
I mean, I guarantee you in his home state of Florida, Alex,
not only do people know who you are,
but we have millions,
literally millions of loyal listeners.
I can't go out in public without being mob.
Not only by Lib Tards who want to fight,
but by patriots who want to come up and shake my hand.
And invariably, a majority of them say,
oh, you know Alex Jones.
Tell Alex Jones we love him.
Tell Alex Jones to keep fighting.
Tell Alex Jones we're with him.
It happens every single day.
That's what keeps me going is for my children's future.
It is for every one person that goes,
F you get out of here.
I was getting on the plane.
Somebody says, get out of DC, Alex.
Get out of here.
Some lady did.
But for that person, 30, 40 people said, stay strong.
Keep it up.
We know they're lying about you.
And I say, you do.
And they go, of course we do.
We love you. Keep it up.
I mean, I'm getting real love now from the persecution.
Not just, hey, we like you, buddy.
So I think they realize, though,
they've turned us into martyrs, Roger.
I think that's why they might try
to actually physically get us.
Sorry about that background noise
from the Stone Family dogs.
It reminds me yesterday, Alex,
I was coming out of a restaurant at the beach with my family.
And there was a woman wearing a t-shirt that said,
my dog would be a better president.
And I said to her, yeah, then Hillary Clinton.
She was very offended.
Oh my gosh.
I tell you, why are they so angry, Trump said,
when everything's going so well?
Why do they fundamentally think their identity
was tied up in that witch, Hillary?
It really is extraordinary.
You wonder how people can be committed
to the inexorable decline of the country.
I love that clip where Barack Obama
is doing like a town meeting and he says,
folks, those jobs aren't coming back.
And does that guy, I'm not going to mention his name,
speaking of Donald Trump,
does he think he has some magic wand?
No, Mr. Former President,
cutting regulation and cutting taxes creates jobs.
Jack Kennedy knew it.
Ronald Reagan knew it.
Donald Trump knows it.
The only person who doesn't seem to know it is you, Barry.
In fact, we've got that magic wand clip
we'll play in a moment because he's like saying,
those jobs aren't coming back.
Well, yeah, because if China's got a couple hundred percent
tariff on us, of course,
we're not going to be able to have any jobs here.
I mean, it's one-sided and Trump says that's stopping.
Yeah, look, they are really,
I've never seen this kind of hysteria.
It's surprising that they launched this assault
in the doldrums of late summer,
you've seen their trajectory.
Amorosa, McCain, Woodward,
now the phony New York Times editorial.
The New York Times is owned by Carlos Slim,
the Mexican billionaire.
When he's not owning the New York Times,
he's the single largest donor to the Clinton Foundation.
So why would we assume that anything,
a single word written at the New York Times
is actually true?
All the news that's fit to print,
embellished with a left-wing tint.
Well, it's more than that.
I mean, Carlos Slim got $5 billion in federal money
over eight years for Obama phones.
I mean, he made literally $5 billion gross.
I think they said the profit was $3 billion.
So of course, he launders it back
through the foundation of the New York Times.
And as you know, the New York Times has had people on me
for six months, Roger,
and they can't even cook up anything.
So now they just put out false reports
that our traffic is down by half,
which is not true.
I mean, these people are complete liars.
And I know everybody knows that, but folks, if you understand,
they write giant articles now
with just the most fantastical fiction.
And I'm even reading it going,
gosh, I can't believe they lie this much.
This is so complex.
But they write all this complex stuff
to make it sound real.
You know, I think a lot of people may not recognize
that even inside these news organizations,
like the New York Times and the Washington Post and others,
there are some honest people that work there.
There are some real reporters
who are unbiased in trying to do their job.
And they're frustrated by editors who cut their stuff,
who delete their stuff,
who reject their stuff when they try to do an objective job.
So even those news organizations
are not monolithically dishonest.
No, I agree, but the people that are total liars,
they're put to the top of the food chain.
Oh, there's no question.
Those are the editors.
That's management,
and that's where good reporting gets killed.
But the woman who's working on a hatchet job
from the New York Times about you,
she's hated by New York Times reporters.
I have at least four conversations
with current New York Times reporters
who have no respect for this woman,
who think she's a knife artist who lies,
who think that she brings discredit
to their entire publication.
I responded to her questions about you.
I'm waiting to see how she attempts
to twist what I have said about you.
By the way,
I don't think she can find the proof
that you're a Russian spy because it doesn't exist.
Doesn't mean they're not trying, boy.
I mean...
It brings this bizarre narrative.
How long has Alex Jones been on the payroll
of RT, of Russian Today?
Well, that's an easy question.
How about never?
How about never?
They're such liars.
It's extraordinary.
And now they're actually trying to set me up.
Let's play this clip that you mentioned.
Here's that famous magic wand statement.
And when somebody says,
like the person you just mentioned,
I'm not going to advertise for,
that he's going to bring all these jobs back.
Well, how exactly are you going to do that?
What are you going to do?
There's no answer to it.
He just says,
well, I'm going to negotiate a better deal.
How exactly are you going to negotiate that?
What magic wand do you have?
And usually the answer is,
you don't have an answer.
That's enough.
And that's the lie right there in closing, Roger.
Trump laid out his whole plans
and exactly how it would work
and had top economists agree with him.
But Paul Kroepman at the New York Times said,
he'd eat his hat if it ever hit 3%.
Yeah, no.
The president, with the help of Larry Kudlow
and Steve Moore, great economist at Heritage,
had the most dynamic economic program
of all the candidates.
And now he's implemented it and it's working.
Come on, America.
Come back from the dead and you are.
I love you.
rogerstonecoldtrip.com and bullwars.com.
Keep it up.
You're awesome.
We'll be back with critical intel straight ahead.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device
that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV,
even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset.
And fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
B-E-R-K-E-Y
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago
when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement
and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems
they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
To help boost and support your flexibility, mobility,
joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store
only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains
over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as
spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com
or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive
and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied
and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber
that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients,
and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality, organic,
and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios,
you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right, if you just joined me,
I could sit here and revel
in how much fun it was to storm
the swamp in the Senate and the House.
And then to watch corporate media act like
it was so bad that I came and talked to cameras
and that I waited in the hallway and talked to Rubio
and how uncouth and evil and bad that is.
You go to any of these hearings.
They have Soros paid goons on record,
screaming and yelling at every hearing.
And then they don't arrest those people.
They just take them out.
The police told me if you go in there and do a disruption
and be arrested and I said,
I'm not wanting to give you the images of me being arrested.
I was saved from Antifa at the RNC
by the state police that led me out when they attacked me.
The news runs that everywhere like I'm being arrested.
And they're like, you really aren't going to do it.
We'll let you in.
And I said, yeah, dude, I just told you.
Why do I want to be in there
when I can be out here with 50 news cameras,
which I was.
Yeah, there's a photo you see most times about me.
The Antifa just attacked me and they grabbed me
and drug me out of the attacking crowd
that was also attacking police.
That turns into I'm being arrested.
They run that everywhere.
Jones kicked off the internet.
He should be in jail. Boom.
Everywhere.
Absolutely everywhere continually.
And here's an example.
Republicans were mad
at Twitter for banning Alex Jones.
Then they met him.
That's a slate article.
But he goes, he's mean and crude.
He disrupted Congress.
He was mean to Rubio and broke into a press conference.
No, I was waiting for him to come out the door.
That's where they come out the door.
That's what everybody does.
I went over and confronted him about the censorship
and he was very rude.
But that turns into I'm this wild rule breaker.
They even have articles.
Should Jones be banned from government buildings?
They are professional disruptors.
I didn't break any rules.
And I need to be banned.
See, third dimensional banning.
Look, man caught paying off Kavanaugh protesters.
Works for Soros funded organization is a lawyer.
And it's him handing out wads of cash
to women that then go in and yell and scream,
you're killing me, you're killing me.
Kavanaugh's murdering me.
Infowars.com, all of it right there.
Their names, who they are, that's disrupting.
Not me.
And the point is, is that if somebody's really been wrong,
like Laura Loomer, who they're banning everywhere
and then she goes and says,
stop banning me in a committee hearing,
that's up to her to put herself at that risk.
I support it.
But these are all paid professionals.
And then the media acts like I was disrupting.
When they're the ones that do it professionally,
again, everything they do is a fraud.
But then Oliver Darcy, this low energy weasel
who gets like 100 retweets when he tweets,
who's the head of media operations
and coverage for CNN,
which means you've got to really be a deceptive weasel.
You can read articles on infowars.com with hundreds
of his tweets saying ban me and policing here
and policing there and saying,
he violated your terms here.
Where are you taking them off?
He violated your terms there.
And when he says it, he's CNN.
It makes it so, because he's God.
Even though they have no viewers and are totally disrespected
and hated in the Kings of Fake News.
So then I kept saying, you've called for me to be banned.
And he goes, no, I didn't.
No, I didn't.
No, I didn't.
No, I didn't.
That's not true.
This arrogance, this spirit of disrespecting you.
And so he's celebrated me being taken off all these platforms.
And he goes around trying to get me off Twitter,
but then to my camera,
he's not going to admit he's censoring.
He goes, no, I'm not thinking you have no memory.
That's evil.
Here's some of the HD footage.
Look at this right here.
This guy that goes around policing and calling for censorship
and then claims that Trump's wrong.
There's no censorship of conservatives or patriots.
You are incredibly shameful.
How are you doing, Alex?
You're just a, look at you.
You are literally an anti-American, anti-free speech coward.
You're going to go down to history books
at the Criminal News Network.
This is one of the main,
this is one of the main people right here
who thinks you have no memory,
who sits there in lobbies.
Show him.
It sits there in lobbies, people.
To take other news off,
claiming their fake,
what's seen in is the fakeest WMD,
Gulf Arab state dictatorship funded.
Unbelievable.
Hey, come on over here, Drew.
I want to get this down to you.
This is unbelievable.
I was literally saying,
I don't see the Criminal News Network here,
but it do, right there,
going along with the fraud to try to get in there
and try to shut down conservative libertarian speech.
And of course, he comes from the loins of Glen Bay.
King, I mean, look at those eyes, folks.
You want to see the eyes of a rat.
No, I'm not sure.
I mean, look at the camera.
Look at those eyes.
Look at that swabbling to the system
and the criminals are seeing an older war mongering and death,
all their fake news,
and then running around trying to police the internet
and trying to shut people down.
I mean, you think people are so stupid.
I'll see you in a week later.
You say no one's censoring anybody.
No one's pushing for censoring.
And then you say that Trump is the one attacking the press,
but only doesn't stand up to your lies.
Just look at this guy's eyes, man.
That is who will rule your life,
him and people like Stelter.
That is who want to look at that smile.
Alex, Alex, you know, I'd say,
so I've known Oliver quite a long time,
since you got older.
Good to see you, Chuck.
Good to see you.
You know, he's from Fresno.
I mean, he knows about it.
You know, in Fresno, we actually believe in free speech.
And here he is, censoring people.
I'm hearing you.
Policing people.
He's the populace.
That is the populace.
Before him, he worked for Fresno.
And of course, I have many other people
in the conservative movement
helped us in his career along.
And now he's decided that now that he works for CNN,
he's going to go and try and shut down voices.
Look, I mean, he's even more evil-looking.
There's something to think about in the decisions that you made.
You don't even respond because we're just scum.
You stood there and seen it with no viewers,
no followers, everyone can't stand you.
And no matter, you just shut everyone down on Earth.
No one will like you.
You understand that?
You'll never have the news of the latest of fans and followers.
You'll never have people that love you.
Do you have anything else you'd like to tell us?
No, you are a dishonorable liar
who would never even dare have me on your little tiny shows
when you instilled or called me a virus.
You are a virus to America and freedom.
You are authoritarianism.
Just look in those eyes.
The hunger to silence America,
the hunger to extinguish the First Amendment,
the hunger to the scene,
but he can't do it because the fire of liberty
is not going to be knocked out.
And I want you to know, I'm starting to come up here a lot.
We've been seeing a lot of each other.
It's good.
Just seeing them.
Always good to see you.
Yeah.
Is there anything else you'd like to say?
Oh, no, you don't talk back to mere slaves.
You just act, calling everybody's sponsors and get them to dump you,
working with media matters and the Nazi collaborator, George Soros.
All right.
Smiling like a possum and find out the rear end of a dead cow.
You use that one several times.
That's what you look like.
You need to come up with something.
You look like a possum that got caught doing some really nasty stuff.
You're a public figure, too, if I go to Twitter and say,
he's bullying me.
I'm only trying to be platform everywhere and celebrating it
and then insulting my viewers a week later saying no one's doing it.
How dumb do you think your viewers are?
They have no memory like Dari finding them out.
He can't respond.
All you do is to see.
Your job is to be a disruptor.
I'm not a response.
This is not a...
Are you saying the left is trying to be platformed and surfaced?
This is not it.
I'm not doing an interview with you.
Zach, here you go.
Just look at it.
Look at that person.
He can't defend it.
Full video on infowars.com.
Tomorrow's news today.
Big news straight ahead.
Stay with us.
Let's talk tough.
Let's talk comfort.
Let's talk about down home value.
Made in the USA blue jeans.
Like you wore as a kid.
Remember.
There's a place down in Tennessee
Where they make blue diamond gusset jeans
They so pride in every stitch
Guarantee you love the way they fit
They put a diamond gusset in the crotch
Where you need it most
Blue diamond gussets got it
Others don't
Get old fashioned comfort
Get diamond gusset jeans
Every stitch guaranteed
And our Defender motorcycle gene
Comes cavilar reinforced
See them at gusset.com
That's gusset.com
Or call 888-848-7738
That's 888-848-7738
Diamond gusset jeans got it
Others don't
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas
We've ever offered with even better ingredients
Ultimate bone broth
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you
A powerhouse bone broth formula
To help push you to your limits
This incredible formula
Will help you get the most out of your workout
With the power of ultra high quality bone broth
One of the most popular health trends on the planet
Built with more than 7 different superfoods
And crucial compounds
Ultimate bone broth will help support
Your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments
While also supporting your body's fight
Against free radicals
This incredible chicken bone broth formula
Contains time tested ingredients
Such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
Bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder
To support your body
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth
Can do for you
Get a bottle of the all new version
Of a fan favorite product today
At infowarsstore.com
Info Wars Life and infowarslife.com
Is extremely excited to announce
Our latest release,
Winter Sun
A revolutionary type of vitamin D3
Winter Sun is a premium quality
Vitamin D3 nutritional supplement
It is produced by extracting oil
From healthy nutrient dense plants
Known as lichens
Every batch is analyzed for purity
And D3 content
It's completely free of toxins and allergens
Simply put, if you want the best
At an extremely low price, this is it
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit
Of the best source of vitamin D3
The research and development took over two years
But the result, as verified by independent laboratories
Is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world
Read the facts at infowarslife.com
About Winter Sun vitamin D3
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood
But vitamin D supports our memory and brain function
Something the globalists are targeting
Visit infowars.com today
Or call 888-253-3139
We've taken thousands of years of known research
And put it together with our own four years
Of seeking and testing to find the very best systems
That God gave us through Mother Nature
To detoxify the body
That's why I'm introducing ZShield
Toxic metal and chemical defense support
It's made in the USA
It's filled with known compounds from nature
That are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
And it supports the info war
It is a classical 360 win
This is the formula that I personally have been taking
For over a year
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection
When it comes to a detoxifier
As you can possibly get
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family
And you owe it to the future of this country and the world
That patriots stay as healthy and as clean
And as focused as you can be
Because we need you, the remnant of America
To reignite those brush fires the next level
And to be healthy and as focused as you can be
Thanks to your support and your prayers together
We're changing the world
Now it's time to change our bodies
With ZShieldM4sLife.com
All right, ladies and gentlemen
I'm going to play a few of these clips from yesterday
I'm going to get into the breaking news
But here I am on some of the feeds
In front of more than 50 news cameras
And I am laying out the reason I came to DC
The reason I came to Washington
Because they're not letting me face my accusers
And then they had another area
When I was getting into the censorship
And they cut the feed
That clip's coming up next
But first this clip
I said things on Twitter I didn't say
And so again, they can say all day
I violated their terms
Jack Dorsey didn't take me off Twitter
And you, the so-called media
Has been foaming at the mouth
To get me further deplatformed
So I can't respond to the lies
Think about this in America
Think about this in America
That I have been unable
This is the 11th hearing
That they've had in the last year and a half
Where I'm one of the main focuses
And I have not ever been called to testify
When they say outrageous, slanderous, defamatory things
When they've had in the House Intelligence Committee
Senate Intelligence Committee and others
They'll have people point playing
From the CIA, you name it, who are leftists
Say Alex Jones works for the Russians
That is an outrageous lie
Beyond Joseph McCarthy and then he ever did
But when McCarthy did it
The people got to come in
And got to confront the committee
And say you have no decency
How dare you act like this
This is a hundred times worse
Than anything Joseph McCarthy ever did
And it's a shame
Mr. Jones, this morning's hearing
Is specifically about preventing election manipulation
This afternoon's hearing is...
Sure, sure, yeah, yeah
But every time they have these meetings
They bring up the info wars
They claim they're taking info wars down
To stop election meddling
Obama established with an executive order
He established with an executive order
Before he left office
A special office that deals with foreign propaganda
What it's really been used is to target
Domestic populist popular groups
The real election meddling is by Facebook
And Google and others that are shadow banning people
That are outright banning people
And they're blocking conservatives
Involved in their own first amendment political speech
There is a giant crackdown
That even the New York Times
Calls it a crackdown on conservatives
And a plan to deep platform conservatives
From the internet
And communicating with each other
Just like communist China
This is dangerous authoritarianism
And they packaged silencing Americans
Who are popular and well spoken
Stucker Carlson said about me on Fox News
Not because what I say is bad
But because what I say is effective
And true and popular
So they built strong end
And misrepresent what I said
And then that feed got cut out
And here's another example
Of where they cut the live feed
CNBC cuts Alex Jones' live feed as capital
As he rants about being silenced
By dangerous authoritarianism
That's a raw story article
And what's shocking is raw story
Calls me a libertarian which is accurate
And is somewhat positive
Good, I hope the left wakes up
The fact they're coming after everybody's free speech
So the good news is I'm seeing more and more
Support from Republicans, libertarians
People like Drudge Report, Tucker Carlson
They've always been supporting
But now I'm seeing some of the leftist publications
Getting what's going on
That I'm saying at these hearings
Because the Republicans, a lot of them
Are just as bad as the Democrats
When it comes to censorship garbage
So let's go ahead where they cut the feed
You just heard the opening bells here at the NYC
Let's send it back down to Carl
To Julia, actually, I'm the halls there
Julia
They can say and do whatever they want
The media ran a hoax
And said that I said things on Twitter
I didn't say
And so again, they can say all day
I evaluated their terms
Jack Dorsey didn't take me off Twitter
And you, the so-called media
Has been foaming at the mouth
To get me further deplatformed
So I can't respond to the lies
Think about this in America
Think about this in America
That I have been unable
This is the 11th hearing
That they've had in the last year and a half
Where I'm one of the main focuses
And I have not ever been called to testify
When they say outrageous,
Flandrous, defamatory things
When they've had in the House Intelligence Committee
Senate Intelligence Committee and others
They'll have people point blank
From the CIA, you name it, who are leftists
Say Alex Jones works for the Russians
That is an outrageous lie
Beyond Joseph McCarthy and then he ever did
But when McCarthy did it
The people got to come in
And got to confront the committee
And say you have no decency
How dare you act like this
This is a hundred times worse
Than anything Joseph McCarthy ever did
And it's a shame
Mr. Jones, this morning's hearing
Is specifically about
Preventing election manipulation
This afternoon's hearing is...
Sure, sure, yeah, yeah
But every time they have these meetings
They bring up info wars
They claim they're taking info wars down
To stop election meddling
Obama established with an executive order
He established with an executive order
Before he left office
A special office that deals with
Foreign propaganda
What it's really been used is to target
Domestic, populist, popular groups
The real election meddling is by Facebook
And Google and others that are shadow banning people
That are outright banning people
And they're blocking conservatives
Involved in their own first-of-a-minute
Political speech
There is a giant crackdown
That even the New York Times calls it a crackdown
On conservatives
And a plan to de-platform conservatives
From the internet
And communicating with each other
Just like communist China
This is dangerous authoritarianism
And they packaged silencing Americans
Who are popular and well-spoken
As Tucker Carlson said about me
On Fox News
Not because what I say is bad
But because what I say is effective
And true and popular
So they build strongman and misrepresent what I say
Alex Jones there talking to our Julia Borsden
About efforts to get him de-platformed
From various social media outlets
Gives you a sense of just how complicated
The question is going to be here
Regarding First Amendment rights
The ability to speak to them
I'll stop right there
The headlines cut it short
But in a way that they were being seated
So it's up to interpretation
I think CNBC is one of the better channels
Out there by the way
When it gets to news
They got their own left to slam
But something like CNN or MSNBC
My gosh
But notice that there were
Reporters of course
There's de-platforming of Alex Jones
Well, the CNN reporter that quarterbacked
That commanded, that field marshaled
Me being taken off
And was lauded for it by the left
To my face said
Nobody's taking you off
And I've never called for you to be removed
That's all that comes out of your rat-like mouth
Unbelievable
Alright, I've got to get into the world news
When we come back
But here's the deal
They're going after the president
With 60 days left
61 days left
They're coming after me
And it takes a lot to shock me
Some stuff happened yesterday
That I'm not at liberty to talk about
Yet before I left DC
That was so bizarre
And so ham-fisted
That it just boggles the mind
I mean, Mueller is trying to frame me right now
Because everybody knows I'm not connected with the Russians
Everybody knows I love America
Everybody knows that about Trump
This is ridiculous
But they're planning to remove Trump before the election
And they even admit that
In all these New York Times articles and stuff
They're making their move, man
They're the danger
And it's our fault that we don't stop them
I'm not sure how we do it
But the president needs to start having emergency
Oval Office addresses
Maybe he should announce one Friday
And have it Monday night
I don't know why he hasn't had an Oval Office address yet
Boom, talking American people
He does it out on the road
All the rest of it
He needs that presidential deal
And just lay the cards on the table and say
If you like recovery
You like freedom, whatever
I'm here
You want to be running the ground by these crooks
And go with them
Now, here's the deal
Most talk show hosts plug every segment
I plug baby once or twice an hour
I need to be funded
As you know, the enemy is suing me
And coming after me
And we're winning
But it costs a lot of money
And they're trying to shut me down
And I want to expand their face
I want to hire more reporters in different cities
I want to watch more shows
I want to go 20, 24 hours a day live
And yes, these attacks have slowed us down
Our listorship is at all-time highs
But a lot of those are new people
They're not supporters yet
I need financial support
I've got products you already need
We have the ultimate turmeric formula
For joint support, mobility, flexibility
Inflammation support, immune support
Turmeric root extract
95% of humanoid
Nobody else has got that
Boswala, sera to extract
Organic experiment, sage, lemon balm
Thyme leaves
Pepperine from black pepper
And more bodies
It's about to sell out
In just the next few days
But I'm leaving it
At 50% off
Because we're getting more in in October
Hard to believe we're almost that close
98% reviews on that baby
Infowarsstore.com
The ultimate bone broth
It's 50% off
That special is going to have to end soon as well
That is an amazing product
At Infowarslife.com
Just the things it does
Our incredible chicken broth
Concentrated turmeric root
Chocolate mushroom, beef pollen
Doji berry, alfalfa, herb powder
You got folks playing football, tennis
You're old, you're young
Joints, everything
It's amazing
Find out why bone broth
Has been loved for thousands of years
And all the studies that are behind it
Infowarsstore.com
Choose to take control of your chemistry
With Survival Shield X2
And Biotrue Selenium
This powerful combo is perfect
For supporting your thyroid and health
Biotrue selenium's formula
Is far from synthetic
And is made from a source of
100% organic mustard seed
Our super high quality nascent iodine
Is an essential mineral
Sourced of 99.99%
Ultra pure, deep earth iodine crystals
This essential mineral is necessary
In order to produce thyroid hormones
Which influence every cell, tissue
And organ in the body
With inadequate thyroid hormones
You may experience slow metabolism
Lethargy, weight gain
And overall brain fog
Survival Shield X2
And Biotrue Selenium work together
To support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today
With this super combo
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2
And Biotrue Selenium
InfowarsLife.com
Go to infowars.com
For the last show
Subscribe to the free podcast
Just click on the link
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in
It'll pop up there
It's also critical to go to infowars.com
For the last newsletter
And give us your email
So that we can stay in contact with you
And send you videos and articles
On our own platform
But whatever you do
Tell folks about infowars.com
For the last show
How they can download the free android
And iphone apps
How they can then reach out to others
With the information and coin out
This is the verboten info
This is what they don't want you to see
We all know that the outside toxins in the water
Is a serious health issue
Infowars is proud to sell incredible filters
But it's almost impossible to keep up with
Every faucet, shower, and sink in your home
That's why we're bringing you something
To provide clean water for your whole house
With one system
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System
Is an advanced four stage
Compact filtration system
That will provide water filtration
For your entire home
Removing 220 plus contaminants from your water
It's compact in size
Easy to install and maintain
And keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
Out of your water supply
And away from you and your family
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction
You'll only need this one filter
For clean and refreshing water
All over your home
Head to infowarsstore.com
And whether it's your first water filtration purchase
Or you're looking to replace your current
Rundown systems
It's time to go big and go home
With the Pro Pure Whole House
Filtration System today
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you
About the 60 plus products
We have it in Fuller's life
It'd take hours
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price
It's stronger
It's the other equation in probiotics
It knocks out the yeast, the mold
The candida
It's back in stock
The real red pill
It's been sold out for months
It's got the preglinone
That's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins
The amino acids
So you can upload it
And our latest product that goes great
With the super blue colloidal silver
And iodine 4 to 5 toothpaste
Is super blue silver immune gargle
That's a spray you do
You can also swallow it
It's a supplement with iodine
A super high quality silver
And a lot more
Without you, we couldn't do it
So thank you all
For remembering infowarsstore.com
And remembering that it's not just you
That's already awake
But it's other people that aren't awake
And it's so essential to spread the word
Again, thank you so much for being part
Of the Second American Revolution
Well, Millie Weaver, one of our intrepid
Roving reporters has been on fire with her
Great cameraman, producer, and husband, Gavin Wince
She's going to be on next hour
Riding shotgun with me
We're going to be taking your phone calls
On what do you make of
What's happening in this country?
Infowars was number one on Twitter yesterday
Alex Jones was
Number one topic in the country
Number one on Google
And the videos we shot
Got millions and millions of views
So despite all the censorship
And the rumors of my death
Being greatly exaggerated
It didn't happen, did it?
Now what is that an example of?
Oh, Troyer had the idea
Of an infowars army
An information war
For people to peacefully go out in public
And legally and lawfully
Unfurl banners at sporting events
Unfurl banners over interstate highways
Put up stickers and hand bills
In legal and lawful areas
The website is now up
InfowarsArmy.com
One word
You can go there
Send us your emails
You can send you alerts
Email us back
Show us video
You shoot at what you do
And we'll put it on the broadcast
You want to fight 60 days out for the election?
You want to know what you can do?
I had a whole bunch of families
Learned that I was at the committee hearings
Even though I announced it that morning
Show up
And we're hugging me
And saying, what can we do
You're so great
I told them, you're great
You're awesome
You're amazing
You get involved
Because here's something that's really central
To all of this and understanding
It's a Kit Daniels article
That's at newswars.com
It's a Kit Daniels article
That is at infowars.com
Nike popularity drops
34%
As Generation Z rejects Kaepernick ad campaign
Now
Why is this the key to everything?
I'll tell you why
Because you've seen the NFL
Lose almost half its viewers the last three years
You've seen Hollywood lose about 38%
Of its viewers the last three, four years
You've seen every major corporate media outlet
Lose 25% of its audience year after year
Except for a few shows on MSNBC and Fox
And ABC
But in general they've all declined massively
But Nike popularity drops 34%
As Gen Z rejects Kaepernick ad campaign
Why is that so important?
Their stock dropped $3.7 million
Then it dropped even more
And why?
Because the idea that he sacrificed everything
Is not true
He was having a bad football season
He'd become scared of contact
He had become what they call
A little bitch
And
He couldn't take it anymore
He got basically hired by Soros and others
To be this PR person
To go out and create racial strife
And division in this country
And start kneeling during the national anthem
Which is your first amendment if you're not on the team
You know, can I work at Baskin Robbins
And say that I'm gonna wear a black shirt
Instead of a pink shirt or whatever it is
No, you work there, it's part of your contract
Put your hand over your heart, stamp the national anthem
That's the way it is, it's a corporation
So you've got the very same left-seeing
Banned all conservative speech, shut us up
Shut us down, take us off the internet
Do this to us, do that to us
But then when Kaepernick wants to take a knee
And becomes incredibly unpopular
And the NFL loses all this money
They say, oh, don't violate his first amendment
Fine, I say you go ahead and kneel
I will never watch another NFL game anyways
Because I know it's a bunch of propaganda
It's globalist, it's just part of Hollywood
It's really exploitive because Nike's known for having
Some of the worst factories in the world
And they're nothing compared to Apple, but they're bad
And they're known for being exploitive
And they're known for targeting black youth
With $300 to $400 worthless tennis shoes
That are seen as status symbols
And so they're exploitive of people
They're exploitive of black people
And so of course they're then gonna hold up Kaepernick
Who looks Native American to me, he doesn't even look black
But whatever
They hold this guy as racist Islamist girlfriend up
As God
But the good news is no one wants to hear it
And no one wants to see it and in one week
Popularity drops in all these different indexes
34%
Their stocks plunge
They're absolutely hated
And now they're associated with the dying NFL
The worst political move you could make
But therein lies the paradox
Why have you saw the NFL go down almost 40%
Some polls 45% or more in three years
Would you then associate yourself with what
Blew a hole in the bottom of the NFL boat
And began the end of the franchise
Why?
The NFL was almost twice the size of baseball
Now it's a little bit bigger than baseball
By next year it'll be smaller than baseball
The NBA you know to say we're not doing this
Because they're smart, that's a growing franchise
They're like no, people want to come
Drink beer and eat hot dogs and watch a basketball game
They do not want to hear a bunch of politics
So this is a paradox
But the corporate globalists are bigger than the NFL
They're bigger than ratings
They don't care if it hurts the NFL
They don't care if it hurts Hollywood
It's about domination of America and world domination
And the chai comms take it over
And so they're breaking eggs to make omelets
They know this is destructive
But they want to get enough people racially charged
With basically brown KKK type activity
All run out of this special office that Van Jones
Is still in, the diversity office
They need to shut that office down
Trump needs to go after it
I've talked to people that worked there
There's going to be some undercover videos
Coming out of there soon
And it is like a KKK rally
But it's black and Hispanic and Asian
And you don't get the job there unless you are
F white this, F white that
Whites are scum, whites are inbred, whites are idiots
And I had Hispanic ladies come up to me
And white ladies and white dudes
And go FU Nazi in D.C. outside of the hearings
It's on video, we ought to find those and play those
Those were epic videos
From the live feed, C.M. Duke can grab those
Right towards the end of the live feed
Before we left the Senate
And they're like FU Nazi
And I'm like well actually I believe in Martin Luther King
I believe judge people on what they stand for
Oh right, you know your mother's married
To her brother, you white scum
And just, I mean it was like KKK stuff on steroids
And I'm sitting there
And they're just spewing all this racism at me
And I didn't dislike them because they were Hispanic
Because they had great Hispanic fans coming
Wonderful people, I was hugging all over them
They had like 10 groups of Hispanic folks
Come up and love on me
But there were these ladies that were kind of dressed
Like MS-13 all thugged out
And they were just saying you know
Get out of here pilgrim, you're trash
We hate you, you're subhuman
And it's all the same stuff the New York Times
Writer was saying
That's what they've done
That's what the globalists have created
So that's what this is targeting to create these people
The brown KKK
To go out and push this narrative
And put up giant billboards of this guy
Like an icon
Because he says America sucks
And he says there's all this division
Because they're trying to counteract that
Trump is trying to bring the country together
And it's a sign of the establishment's desperation
So in that paradox lies the victory that
We're winning, people are coming together
Double the number of black Americans
Who support Trump
Double the number of Hispanic Americans
In just a year and a half
It's a landslide
That's why they go
Well maybe Southerners don't like Northerners
Let's reignite that and say that Trump hates Southerners
Which is absolute balderdash
But again, they're just trying everything they can
To try to divide us
But it's not working
So, here's the moral story
They're destroying themselves
They're the ones losing
They're the ones going down
They're the ones having to shut us down
And ban us off platforms
Because we're too popular
No one wants to hear this
No one wants to see this
Except really stupid people
It's pathetic
And almost all the white people I know
Aren't becoming more racist
Because of all this racist stuff
They're seeing through it
But so are, quote, most minorities
Because they already figure out
We're the majority now
We want free market
We want American pie
We want to just...
We're in the club
But they don't want you to take your birthright
The political elite are scared of you
Getting into America
And getting into freedom
Because if you do, it's over for them
Now, we're going to come back
I'm going to give the number out
It's 877-789-2539
877-789-2539
First-time callers
Let's get Harmon in here to take the calls
877-789-2539
Specifically on the countdown
To them trying to remove Trump
And specifically them saying
Use 25th Amendment as we said they would
And all these fake stories they're publishing
What are they going to do next
With 60 days left?
What are they going to...
This is the question
What are they going to pull next
To destabilize things?
What's the next lie?
How do we counter it?
How bad do you think it's going to get?
877-789-2539
I know what they're planning to do to me
The rest of me is a Russian agent
Tried to do it yesterday
The Real Red Pill Plus ladies and gentlemen
Our team is constantly on the lookout
For newer and better ways to improve our products
That's why we're bringing you a brand-new version
Of one of the newest fan-favorite products
The Real Red Pill Plus
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new
Version of the Powerhouse pregnant on product
It features the same great formula
That supports your heart, brain,
Healthy aging process
With an all-new natural caffeine boost included
A powerful pregnant-owned base
The Real Red Pill
Equally become one of our
Fellow Info Warriors' favorite products
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside
Including 3D extract, your Ramate leaf extract
And more, you can get that extra pick-me-up
All supporting your mind and body
In a healthy way
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has
It's also got the most in it
Get the Real Red Pill Plus
At InfoWarsStores.com
Years ago, InfoWars Life
Created a powerful MycoZX formula
To help you combat internal yeast
As the years went on
And more toxins were pumped into the environment
Our team knew we had to create
A bigger and better formula
To help support your gut health
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search
For that formula, a unique natural formula
Designed to support the body's natural cleansing
Of yeast and fungal organisms
There's no better product to help your body fight back
MycoZX Plus helps support
A healthy microbial balance in the body
Supports your digestive tract
And addresses the intestinal yeast
That can cause you problems if it goes unchecked
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients
Including grapefruit seed extract
Powdarko bark and grape seed extract
Our formula is fueled by ingredients
That stood the test of time
As powerful microbalancing properties
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved
MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com
That's InfoWarsLife.com
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show
You've got it, you've got it, you've got it
The Chris Maynard coming to you
Waging war on corruption
It's Alex Jones
Coming to you live
From the front lines of the InfoWarsLife
That's InfoWarsLife.com
Coming to you live
From the front lines of the InfoWarsLife
You know on Tuesday
I told you I was going to drop some bombshells
Can we get the possum off the screen
He's starting to make me want to throw up
On Tuesday
I told you you'll want to tune in on Wednesday
Because we're going to have some big news
And folks know I don't hype
I just give you the facts
You're going to want to tune into the show tomorrow
Because I've decided
Come hell or high water
I'm going to release the information on air
That will not be national news
They will shut this down
Believe me the order is going to go out
Do not cover this
But
They're making their move on this country
There's no doubt now
The stuff they've been pulling is so over the top
Trump has to remove
That special office that the Clintons left behind
With Obama
At the Justice Department
And he's got to clean that CIA office out
That Obama set up
That intersects with the media
Because man these people are engaged in
Terrorism
I mean it is down low
Nasty
I mean I'm like wow
Wow
Whoa that just happened
Whoa
They mean business
They mean business bad
You know most people get threatened like this
And they just look for who they can bow down to
And I don't even think of myself as the toughest guy around
People do this stuff to me man
It makes me get angry
And it makes me want to fight
Because I know this
I'm not going to run and hide in some ditch
And have somebody have their way with me at their appointed time
They're coming after me
They're going to have it right now
Right out in front of God and country
And everybody else you want to bang heads with me
Let's do it
And it's not because I'm looking for trouble
I'm a nice person
Man you people are bad
And you know what
Everybody can smell it's the end of your days
Like let's come in with
Cut you down
Johnny Cash
And then we'll cross fade into mother
So I think those two things bisect nicely
Then I'll take your phone calls
Millie Weaver is going to be joining us as well but
This country
Has just got a bunch of cowards in it
And it's got a bunch of yes man in it
They just look for the biggest
Globalist but
They can stick their nose in
That's what they do
They just run around
Looking for the biggest but
They can brown nose
And
If something was big and great
And free and the best thing in the world
Well then by all means stick your nose in there
But stick in your nose
In the globalists that want to destroy America
And love the chai comms
And have sold the country out
And don't want prosperity
And don't like family
Like we're groveling to the worst cancer
This planet's ever seen
No, no, no
The globalist will to dominate
And enslave us
Is their greatest strength
But it's also their greatest weakness
Just like they destroyed Hollywood
The NFL, Nike
The Democratic Party
The Republican establishment
Even though they know it's unpopular
They want to force their will on us
And just like Kaepernick killed
The NFL, he's now killing Nike
Everything they turned to in this new season
We're entering is going to fail
Everything we do
Is going to bear fruit
If we're willing to follow it through
But for those of us that were first to hit
Those of us that were first to come in
As the probes
We're going to have to pay the piper
And I quite frankly
At a spiritual level
Have super happy
And I almost feel guilty
I'm like
What about your kids and everything else
But then my spirit says their only chance
Is full commitment
The only chance we've got
Is taking action 110%
Trusting in God
We do that, we win
We're all dead
What we learned was that there was in fact
Unhealthy levels of heavy metals
And acidity in the rainwater
Next, we tested the water
From our Alexa pure gravity filter
And not only were the heavy metal levels
Within safe measure
But the pH was also restored
To optimal levels
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure
Raises the pH of the water
So what we've learned is that
Volcanic ash and acid rain
Can contaminate a rainwater supply
But more importantly
The rainwater filtration system will purify it.
Cut you down
Go tell that long-tongued liar
Go and tell that midnight writer
Tell the rambler, the gambler, the back-fighter
Tell him that God's gonna
Cut him down
Tell him that God's gonna
Cut him down
From the front lines
The information war
It's Alex Jones
What do you think the globalists are thinking?
But they say, don't listen to Alex Jones.
I mean, if they knew the Streisand effect,
They'd be fools.
They don't have a choice.
And sometimes they succeed in places like China.
They do want to bang heads, folks.
They can't help it
Because they know you're better than them.
And their whole will is to bring you down.
So why are you sleeping?
Why are you about to bow down to these people?
Why?
Why would you give in to fear?
It's a big contest that energizes the soul.
All right.
I'm gonna start taking your calls throughout the hour.
Millie Weaver's joining us.
We got some insane clips that really haven't gotten the attention,
like the tens of millions of views of our other adventures
and travails there in the swamp yesterday
with our invasion of the swamp,
which the media spun.
Look at this uncoothed braggant.
He came in and messed up the decorum
and talked in front of a press conference
and everyone pointed their cameras at him.
And they go, no wonder he's been banned.
Meanwhile, they've got their own paid people in the committees
screaming and yelling and being drugged out.
No NRA. No KKK.
No Trump. No NRA. No KKK.
Meanwhile, I'm gonna show you footage
of these super racist Hispanic ladies
saying horrible things about white people,
which is not the average Hispanic person.
It just shows who the left are.
Crazy people.
But think about that.
They have paid protesters that go in and get drugged out
and then they say, the hearings are partially about me.
I was talked about in the hearings, of course,
and all the other hearings, you've seen the clips.
I'm bad for showing up at a hearing attacking me
and talking to the press because I argue with people.
But they're good when they're paid by Jordan Soros
to actually disrupt the committee, which I didn't do.
The cops, about three minutes into the press conference,
they'll say, come in here. Who are you? Alex Jones?
Oh, yeah. Okay. All right. Which one to know?
We've never seen the media cover somebody like this.
I'm like, yeah, they're here because I told them I was coming.
And then later the cops found out.
I was like, wow. But I made the decision
that if they didn't let me have that press conference,
then I was going to go in the committee room.
And I basically told the head cop that I said, listen, man,
they're talking about me and the hearing.
I go, he goes, who are you? I'm Alex Jones.
He goes, you're Alex Jones.
And I said, yes, I'm Alex Jones.
They're having these hearings about me and everybody else.
They just eat platforming. Have you heard about that?
The guy goes, oh, you're the guy they took.
Oh, you, oh, Alex Jones. Like, yeah, dude.
He goes, oh, we'll go ahead. Sure.
You're not going to disrupt the committee though, right?
I go, no, man, I don't want to be arrested.
Have you seen the photos there of me with the state police?
Hold me. He goes, yes, you get arrested.
And I said, no, Antifa attacked me.
And then they took me out of the crowd and that's all the media shows.
Believe me, I'm not going to disrupt the committee.
As long as I get to go out there to the press conference outside.
He goes, well, all means go ahead.
I don't know what the hell was going on.
And I was never planning to disrupt the thing,
but when I told him I wasn't going to,
at that point, even if they shut me down outside,
I wasn't going to do it because I told him I wasn't.
The difference is I wasn't buses of people arriving
that we've got video and photos of on info wars.com
and being paid cash money by known lawyers that work for Soros.
Good detective work to go in and disrupt things
and to create the illusion
that there's people against this Supreme Court nominee.
They'll see the video.
Go see the photos on info wars.com.
It is incredible.
Okay, I'm going to go to Jeremiah and Tim and Bob
and a bunch of others here in just a moment.
Please just briefly understand,
just like our information is game changing,
the supplements we have are incredible,
whether it's the multivitamin mineral fruit punch mix
for you and your children,
vitamin refusion, or whether it's bodies,
the ultimate tumor formula,
or the new bone broth concentrated formula,
or whether it is X2, by the way, is a short supply,
or the super blue fluoride free family of toothpaste
or knockout.
There's big sales from 25 to 50% off right now
and they're about to end.
But you see the attack we're under.
You see how they're trying to bankrupt us.
And I let it stand or fall with what you do,
whether they're able to shut down info wars.
But right now, you've come through, but just enough.
And I'd like to have some extra money in the gas tank
to hire more crew and really fight back
because I just want to fight back.
I just want to win.
I want to defeat these people
and I can't do it without you.
So infowarstore.com or Cripple 825-331-39er.
A lot of big specials are going to have to end
the next few days.
Bodies, ultimate bone broth discounts,
and others infowarstore.com.
Fish oil is game changing.
It's all amazing.
Get a t-shirt, get a book, get a video.
It's all there.
Got a lot of great gear.
We have these new magnets that go on the side of your cars
that won't key your car.
Grab around with infowars.com on the side
and then take it off when you get where you're going.
The amazing George Washington in his prime shirt
with a musket and a tomahawk.
That's a great bestseller.
We've got eye on the resistant shirts.
infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com.
Okay, who should we go to first?
Tim in Montreal, Canada, or no, Tim in Montana.
My eyes are reading wrong.
Jeremiah in Virginia, Bob in Tennessee.
But let's go to Bob in Tennessee first.
Go ahead, Bob.
Thanks for calling.
Yes, sir.
I'm so proud of you yesterday confronting Rubio.
I make a quick point about the pre-speech
and their attack on Trump.
I was a military Air Force pilot.
And the platform Internet, the utility,
was developed by the military and DOD
and used for inter and other communications
long before it was released in the mainstream.
So these folks have no right, obviously,
to monopolize and then regulate a publicly paid-for utility
called the Internet.
They can't do that.
They have no rights to that.
And by the way, what you said is a 100% fact.
It's in the federal law.
And the reporters, when I would tell them about
the different laws and subsections,
didn't even know that it was built by DARPA
and Google and all these companies agreed
under federal law to leave it as an open comments.
Right.
Yes, sir.
But to Darcy's credit, he said that during the hearing.
Go ahead.
Or Jack Dorsey, go ahead.
No, I hate to interrupt you.
By the way, I loved your confrontation with Rubio yesterday.
Because the next point, this is on Russian collusion.
I know this dead horse, but real quick,
my thought on this is real simple.
One is there's no such statute as collusion.
But if there was, tell me, did JFK not collude
with Khrushchev to prevent a nuclear exchange
World War III, and in doing so,
wasn't that not his duty to collude with Khrushchev
and do exactly that?
Well, presidents of their own branch of government,
they're allowed to talk to whoever they want.
Then if we disagree, we impeach them over it.
But yes, it's his duty, once president-elect,
to start talking to all the major powers.
So the whole, the concept on its face is ridiculous.
This is the largest mixture of power in the world.
Of course we need to collude or talk or speak
or work with the Russians.
Come on, that's ridiculous.
Brother, they're just, the Democrats are in bed
with the chai comms. They're scared it's going to come out.
So they're projecting onto us what they are, traders.
And so that's why they're actively investigating me
and trying to set me up, wait till I get into it,
with the Russians. I mean, it's now reached that point
where they're asking dozens of people about Russians and me.
They have New York Congress asking me
and then now they've gone to the next level.
I mean, we're talking stains, ladies and gentlemen.
We have now reached the level of people,
the suitcases of Khrushchev.
Yes, I'm not kidding. We'll be back. Stay with us.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure,
and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you,
but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops,
poor circulation and irregular heartbeat
are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized.
My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look
and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent
should be using this product as a preventative
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today
by calling 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305.
Or order online, hbextract.com,
heart and body extract 866-295-5305,
or hbextract.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material
from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer.
It is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality
atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
In which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
And with your help spreading it, and with your help downloading it,
we are unstoppable.
You know, the mainstream corporate media is mindless.
They take whatever they're told on the face.
Like you could name a barn, black barn,
but then the barn's red.
Or you could name a fish, green fish, and the fish is blue.
Or you could name a river, dry river,
and it's really always flowing.
So they're like, oh, it's a foreign interference internet meeting,
but I could see what it was going to be.
They had all these other things called that last year,
where it would be about me and banning us, and Jones as a Russian agent,
and all this crap.
And so I knew to go to it, and sure enough, it was about censoring the web.
Millie Weaver's been all over the country.
Trump rallies, you name it.
We'll take calls with her coming up in the next segment
with Tam and everybody else, especially holding.
But you were making some great points during the break
about following the hearings that we were at yourself
and what you took away from that, Millie.
Well, Alex, I really thought that, you know,
the mainstream media did a lot of coverage
on the Kavanaugh hearing yesterday.
Which is mainly what I was watching and following.
So I just assumed that this social media hearing
was going to be about addressing social media
and how they've been censoring conservatives.
But no, when I actually sat down and watched the hearing this morning,
come to find out, this is all about censoring people
and whether or not Facebook and Twitter is going to comply
with the Democrats and globalists demanding
that they act as their authoritarian tools
to censor their political opposition.
That's right, that's all the Democrats did
was sit there and say, we can censor you, we can ban you,
we can take your companies over if you don't do what we say.
And now I know the rock in the hard place,
why suddenly Dorsey who's been somewhat pro censorship
is suddenly no, no, no, because he now gets there
about to take him over.
Exactly, and what we saw was kind of a black-and-white
night and day between Twitter and Facebook.
Now, both were being pressured by the Democrats in Congress
to essentially do their bidding and start removing
political opponents and conservatives off of Facebook or Twitter.
But what was interesting was that Sheryl Sandberg,
the representative from Facebook,
literally sounds like the most authoritarian big brother,
I call her big mother now, that I've ever heard.
It was just so creepy to hear her talking about the tactics
and how serious they are about trying to remove
quote-unquote, fake news. Well, we all know fake news
is just as arbitrary as it gets.
Well, that's right, they also said the same thing
about your Skype's breaking up for a moment,
about, quote, hate speeches, whatever they want.
And they were really coming after Jack Dorsey,
threatening, well, you're showing opiates on there,
we could federalize you right away.
So clearly, I only found that Senator Cotton got it right
in the Senate when he brought up, hey,
you don't even let our own military work with Google.
You don't even, Google's moved to China.
And notice Google wasn't there very conspicuously
that Google is completely globalist.
Yeah, Google, Google was a no-show, essentially.
But what's interesting is that Jack Dorsey actually stated
on the record that his parents are Republican and Democrats.
So he grew up in a household that was a little bit more open
to political idea, and he kind of sees Twitter as something
being like that along those lines.
He mentioned that it's a neutral public forum,
which is key to take that stance.
He said it to Commons, which is the law.
Yeah.
I got to say, not just because he kept us on Twitter,
but because I'm not defending some of his censorship,
but what he was saying was true, that we're at public Commons
like a park.
I mean, he was actually saying what the law is.
Well, what it is, is he knows that he doesn't want to lose
his Section 203 immunities under the Communications Act,
which grants him the right to be able to have content posted
by third parties and not be liable for it,
to not be sued over slander or something.
He gets the setup.
He gets the setup.
Because the Democrats admit they plan to get it
and take the Internet over.
Exactly.
And the thing with Facebook and Zuckerberg,
Ted Cruz was trying to get him to pin down whether he was going
to take the opinion or the position of a neutral public forum
or as a political person expressing their own political bias
because they know that if they take a stance in either
of those directions, then they're not going to be able to try
and straddle and do the globalist fitting by being
authoritarians.
Because essentially, you can't try and ban conservatives
and then try and say you're a neutral public forum,
but they don't want to go with the political bias route
because they don't want to be investigated for campaign
financing for the Democrats by essentially allowing Democrat
public opinion to take over social media.
They're campaigning.
And authority happened and the investigations have started
and Enforcers' greatest work along with DrudgeReport.com's
greatest work in the last year has been forcing this out in the
open.
Now the debate has started, but mainly what you said is
critical.
Google didn't show up because they're multinational.
They've already moved to China.
They're super arrogant.
Congress, if they were smart instead of sitting there doing,
you know, when somebody interrupted one of the hearings,
one of the congressmen did his auctioneer,
one who asked him, and instead they should have just had
a Google assistant there sitting there and then asked
Google assistant questions.
Exactly.
And what's interesting about these hearings is that these
hearings are our own congressmen and women who have sold out to
the globalists, primarily mostly Democrats, but also
Republicans just like Marco Rubio, essentially pressuring
social media, big tech to do their bidding for them, acting
as censors or authoritarian type regimes and saying that if you
don't, we'll take you over.
We'll take you over.
They're threatening to split them up, but what they're
threatening is we'll split you up and control social media so
that we can act as authoritarians if you're not going to do it
for us.
That's not really what Trump had in mind when he's talking about
splitting up big tech, but we're seeing that it's a
double-edged sword here because if the Democrats were to be in
power and were to be regulating social media, we could see that
they would actually be pushing authoritarian censorship on
social media, and that's what they're trying to pressure big tech
into.
And let me break this down for people.
You just said it perfectly clear, but I'll say it again and
again and again.
People go, Alex, aren't you libertarian?
You don't want regulation.
The first amendment is a positive regulation saying you cannot
infringe on it.
It's there.
So we need to have that enforced by the Republicans and
libertarians and conservatives leaving a vacuum, the Chai
Coms, the authoritarian EU, the Democrats, with Senator
Warner's thing he put out six weeks ago saying, we're going
to federalize Google and Facebook because you won't censor
and Twitter.
And only Twitter said, no, we're not doing that.
I can't believe I'm defending Twitter, but in this pack of
people, they are the best right now.
And they have that survey, that internal survey that came out
where 22% of Twitter says Van Alex Jones and Twitter
employees, it's 70 plus percent of Apple.
So Apple is authoritarian and you're right.
Senator Warren and Obama behind the scenes have shut it up
with big tech to ban me and then ban everybody else.
And so it's not regulation.
It's Trump not letting them discriminate and not letting
them come in and ban people for their political views.
It's the opposite of regulation.
It's stopping regulations.
Exactly.
And what I will say is that I pulled a couple of clips and put
them aside.
Maybe the producers can play them for us when we come back on
the other side of this break of Cheryl Sandberg from Facebook
because some of the things that she says in this hearing on
public record are so authoritarian.
It literally sounds like something out of a sci-fi movie.
She sounds like that big alien insect queen from the series
V. It's just beyond creepy, Alex.
No, you're right.
When we come back from break, we'll play those and then take
a look.
I was sitting in the hearing room when she would say this stuff
and it's like, we will look at that.
We are scanning that and we'll ban all of that.
We are in control.
Yes, we're using psychological algorithms to control them.
And you're just like, my God, these people have created a whole
new communication system.
We've all opted into it.
And now they're selectively kicking us out and saying, oh,
and we're going to kick you off the internet completely.
And we've got your banking records.
And we're tracking what you're doing in real time.
And you will submit.
On the street ready to hit you in the head with a club
or bike lock or stab you.
If you dare say no, if you become prominent and speak out,
we'll just indict you as a Russian.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
You've heard the phrase, you are what you eat, not true.
Actually, you are what you can't absorb.
So if the vitamins and supplements you now take
are not being absorbed, what good are they?
Introducing Protovite, a proprietary liquid system
that allows premium quality nutrients to positively
affect the blood in an astonishing five minutes.
Watch our amazing two minute live blood cell video
at truehealthfacts.com.
That's truehealthfacts.com.
Then call 502-410-3411.
Protovite is nutrition you can feel.
Protovite is nutrition that gets in.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best
for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion
live, active culture, floral life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold,
and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You get them separately or together
and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula
we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
Staying healthy on the go is just as important
as staying healthy at home.
But sometimes supplements don't work fast enough.
That's why Infowars Life has created
a powerful new addition to the Super Blue line,
Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle.
Available in one ounce, three and a half ounce,
and 16 ounce bottles,
Immune Gargle is perfect for the bathroom, kitchen,
or wherever you go.
The incredible new purifying formula
is dentists recommended for daily use
whenever you feel like you need to stay clean.
As a powerful hand purifier
or oral cleansing formula,
just a small spray will help you stay clean
when you feel surrounded by toxins.
With powerful yet simple ingredients,
Immune Gargle features Silver Soul Nano Silver
for a powerful cleansing alternative.
With Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
staying toxin-free is easy and affordable.
Help stop the spread of toxins
and stay healthy with Super Blue Silver Immune Gargle,
only available at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula
contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version
of a fan-favorite product today
at InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
Here it is.
This is an account, accounts from Russia.
And just last week,
we took down 58 pages and accounts from Myanmar,
many of which were posing as news organizations.
We are focused, as I know you are,
on the upcoming U.S. midterms
and on elections around the world.
Our efforts in recent elections from Germany to Italy to Mexico
to the Alabama Special Senate election
show us that the investments we are making are yielding results.
So there you have it. Pause that really quick.
Right there, she's admitting to the fact that social media
plays a major role in our elections,
and she's actually talking about how in other countries
they're using their tools, algorithms, AIs, shadow banning,
to influence elections in other countries.
But don't worry, she's doing it on behalf of
the big brother, big authoritarian government,
and she'll take commands from the Democrat globalists
that are in office.
I mean, if that doesn't creep you out, I don't know what does, Alex.
And it's in the WikiLeaks and everywhere else
that they're interfacing with the executives in real time
and taking bad Hillary results out, you name it.
Any populist, any nationalist, they're all being removed
and being force fed from Brazil to Germany.
They're trying to stop populist candidates
trying to stop the will of the people.
This is truly an authoritarian group of criminals.
Let's continue.
That we cannot stop interference by ourselves.
We're working with outside experts, industry, partners,
and governments, including law enforcement.
Hit pause again.
We cannot stop interference with their plan,
which is getting our guns, breaking up our families,
doing all this, continue.
And prevent abuse.
We're getting better at finding and stopping our opponents
from financially motivated troll farms
to sophisticated military intelligence operations.
We don't have access to the intelligence government
and have access to.
So we don't always know exactly who is behind these attacks
or their motives.
And that's why we will continue working closely
with law enforcement.
Chairman Burr, I want to thank you for your leadership.
Vice Chairman Warner, I want to thank you for your white paper,
which has so many ideas on how we can work together
to strengthen our defense.
Let's stop again.
That's the white paper we put out six weeks ago
calling for me to be banned and calling for crushing conservatives.
And then Senator Wyden and Senator Murphy said,
that's not enough.
So that's him with the white paper threatening to federalize
Google, Facebook, Apple, if they don't start censoring.
And then two weeks later, two weeks later to the day.
Today's the sixth.
It was on the sixth of last month,
the sixth of August, now the sixth of September,
that they deplatformed our five million views
on our own channels on YouTube,
our five million followers on Facebook,
our 16 million people subscribed on our iTunes,
all of it blown away because of his paper
and what he wrote.
And when you've researched it, it's horrifying,
as Millie Weaver was just saying,
to watch them admitting it all, Millie,
that's what's crazy is to watch how they have
their own corporate speak and it's all out of the open.
Exactly, and the fact that she's talking about how
they're trying to prevent foreign interference
in our elections, but she's demonstrating and talking
about how they, Facebook, are taking it upon themselves
to then meddle in elections and give the result
that our government officials in the Democrat Party
or the globalist movers and shakers
want them to make.
So she's actually admitting that by preventing
foreign interference from Russians or whatever else,
she's gonna take it upon herself as a Facebook executive
to make sure that they get the results
that the globalists want.
I mean, that's so scary right there
and everyone in America should be terrified
that we're hearing this go down in history,
in hearings before Congress right now.
Another thing that's really telling and terrifying
is that remember how I told you, Alex,
how Facebook was planning to start implementing
government-issued ID verification programs
on their platforms?
Well, she actually announces that,
but she announces that they're gonna be starting
with people who have large pages and large followings
and that's what clip number one is about.
It's her announcement.
Exactly, they get financially tied into your bank account.
That's the Chinese social score or known in the book
as the mark of the beast because, hypothetically,
you could totally control populations with that.
And again, Millie Weaver's on fire right now.
We're gonna go to your calls next segment
and the next segment after that.
But this is what's happening.
This is such a critical time.
This is their takeover and we know they want to ban
Christians, conservatives, nationalists, free market folks.
This is their evil takeover.
Like Mark Zuckerberg said, thank God our users are so stupid.
They're such dumb Fs.
So we told you this was coming.
Now it's been announced.
They're fusing everything in to turn you off.
You'll all just submit, but they're always gonna raise the bar
of how you've got to submit to this system of pure evil.
So let's go ahead and go to that clip.
Because incentives to create it,
and we're limiting the distribution it gets on Facebook.
We demote articles rated by third party fact checkers as false.
Start over again.
This is so important.
Other probably lost center, half billion dollars offshore,
works for Soros.
Soros Media Matters, total criminal organization on record
that admits they lie and sabotage.
Seeing in another criminal system, criminal news network.
And again, though we use third parties, well, hell,
I can go start some third party and say this lady is a,
you know, child molester.
It doesn't mean she's a child molester.
I can say she was, you know, Mother Teresa too
with a third party site.
And that's not true either.
Instead she's just a corporate witch.
But this is what we see is these cold-blooded monsters
using technology against people
and building this digital gulag that Matt Dredge warned of.
Let's continue.
We're just on fake news.
We're getting rid of the economic incentives to create it.
And we're limiting the distribution it gets on Facebook.
We demote articles rated by third party fact checkers as false.
We warn people who have shared them
or who are about to share them.
And we show them related articles to give them more facts.
We've also taken strong steps.
So we warn you, we watch what you're about to do in real time
with AI and real people watching.
Oh, looking over your shoulder.
You're really going to make that phone call?
We're going to send that letter?
Like authoritarian regimes, read your letters.
And then we financially don't let you, you know,
advertise if you do that.
And then we ban you.
So again, she is just admitting flagrant authoritarianism
continues.
Then more facts.
We've also taken strong steps to prevent abuse
and increase transparency and advertising.
Today on Facebook, you can go to any page
and see all the ads that page is running,
even if they wouldn't be shown to you.
For political and issue ads, you can also say
who paid for the ads, how much was spent,
and the demographics of the people who saw them.
We're also going to require people running large pages
with large audiences in the United States
to go through an authorization process
and confirm their identity.
Boom. There you have it.
These steps will stop everyone who's trying to gain this.
That is exactly what I was going to have.
And right after the initial advantage.
They'll just start over, start over there.
Okay.
Stop that.
Everything's good.
Now just these clips get to me.
Let's just stop for a minute.
Start over, go ahead.
Okay.
So this is exactly what I said was going to happen
when you had me on right after info wars
and Alex Jones YouTube and Facebook pages got pulled
from my intelligence source that was saying
that this is all the plan and they're going to roll out
this government issued ID verification program
for social media.
And they're already starting it now on Facebook,
but only for pages that have large followings.
That's what she's announcing here.
And by the way, I wasn't mad at you.
It's just YouTube.
It's such an eight hour clip.
We can't download it and play it on the computer.
Our system won't do it.
So they're having to like start and stop
and just YouTube drives me crazy.
But we're playing this and just she makes me physically sick.
Just a corporate vampire up there engaging
in serious crime in front of everyone.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war
to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US
to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula
that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself
and then rest assured you're finding the info war
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available
at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize info wars, lie about us, build a straw man,
then sue us to add credibility to that,
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia
and then wallah.
Two weeks later ban info wars completely
off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com,
forward slash show,
subscribe to the free podcast,
just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in,
it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com,
forward slash newsletter
and give us your emails
so that we can stay in contact with you
and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do,
tell folks about infowars.com,
forward slash show,
how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others
with the information and point out,
this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
You deserve a deep restful sleep
with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients,
such as valerian root extract,
L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract,
and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life,
we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you
a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond
other leading brands
at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
As the years go by,
it gets harder and harder
to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients,
and stress,
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why InfoWarsLife
created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard
of advanced multivitamin formulation,
vitamin mineral fusion,
uses a unique delivery system
to maximize the effects
and give your body the tools it needs
to support your body.
Using a proprietary process,
we've managed to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious, concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high-quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home,
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded
with 34 different essential vitamins,
minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs
in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today.
Available at InfowarsStore.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Regrets, I've had a few,
but then again...
All right, I got 20 phone calls
that I want to go to,
and we've got Anthony Kumi
and coming up to host the next hour.
So let's take these calls, Millie Weaver.
But watching these hearings
and watching Senator Warner
and his just authoritarian evil
and how these globalists
that have sold the country out
then project on to all of us
and Trump that we're Russian agents,
it's sick.
And they've got Mueller
100% planning to frame me for Russia.
It's like framing me for being a Loch Ness monster.
But they mean business, and that's how they plan
to go out for thousands of Americans.
They plan a whole reign of terror in America,
just disappearing and arresting people
once Trump's out saying,
you're with the Russians when they're the globalists
that hate America.
Millie, we're going to calls.
I want you to ride shotgun with me
a little bit in the next hour
and Anthony Kumi has taken over.
We're going to have Jeremiah and Tim
and Todd here in a moment.
But this has gotten so epic.
I don't even know what to say.
I mean, I just, it's all happening.
And imagine if we had more people
like Trump in Congress.
We have so few.
Well, you know, Alex, I wonder if part of the reason
the NFL ratings have dropped by 10%
actually has to do with how interesting
all of this political action
and political hearings and debates
and stuff has ramped up.
I mean, the hearings between the Kavanaugh hearings
and then this Twitter, a social media Facebook hearing.
This stuff is just without the popcorn.
It is so interesting to watch.
And yes, some of it is infuriating to watch
when you're just watching blatant liars
and corrupt swamp creatures spewing their lies.
But at the same time, it's also very interesting
and it's a fight for our country, really.
And so the Nike stuff is really kind of overshadowed
in a lot of ways by what's going on
in these hearings right now.
Well, sure.
And that's a 34% drop in popularity of Nike.
Billions of dollars, 3.7 billion lost just in one day.
And that's 10% drop just in the last few weeks from the NFL
from the 30% drop in the two years before.
So we're almost at 40% drop.
I just think people are sick of it all, Millie,
but I agree.
People are getting into politics
and that's so much more interesting when it's real
and it's not just two parties acting like
they're opposing each other.
We're in time of major change.
Okay, let's go to who's up first here?
Is it Todd?
Is it Tim?
Is it Jeremiah?
Is it Clinton?
Let's go ahead and go to Jeremiah in Virginia.
You're on the air, Jeremiah.
Thanks for calling.
What's going on, Alex?
Crazy days, my friend.
Well, I know I get you.
What I want to say is first is that I'm a lift driver
and I play your show all the time.
The Info Wars app is awesome, man.
I drive all the time and people ask what it is.
You're one of my listeners too
and I tell them, Alex Jones, you ever hear about it?
And some people have, some people haven't.
And I push it, Alex.
I do.
And that's what I'm trying to say as well,
is that everybody needs to push this.
Not just you, not just your crew, everybody.
Everybody needs to get involved.
And, you know, back when King George,
we were fighting against King George,
we became together as a country.
We just, we came together.
And we became those Minutemen.
And we got to rise up again
and become those Minutemen again.
And so we all have to get involved.
And thanks to you and the crew.
It's awesome.
Well, let me say thanks to you, brother.
I mean, it's the crew and the listeners
that make it all possible.
And I'm not just saying that.
It's the truth.
But God bless you.
Thank you.
Yeah, just spread infowars.com forward slash show.
It's all the links, the free podcast, the live feeds.
We're going to have a lot of new functions there.
But this corrupt system is coming down on us
like a hammer right now
because they know they're losing,
they're losing control.
And if you go to DC and go into those meeting rooms
and look at the establishment,
they are pathetic little lawyer peacocks of corruption
that just want to sit up there on their little pedestal.
And you realize how pathetic they are.
God bless you.
Anything else Jeremiah?
Yeah, I wanted to say also, I mean, Mark Warner is just,
Senator, he was, I'm in Virginia.
He was my governor.
And even then he wasn't a great governor.
And so I don't know, I didn't vote for him.
I don't know how he got into the Senate, but it's just, man,
what he's trying to do is come after you
and come after the president.
I mean, and you know, they have no, no game.
They have nothing to go after the president with.
Back when Clinton and Obama,
think of all the things Obama and Hillary was doing.
And yet they're still not in prison yet.
And yet they're trying to dig and find this information on Trump
and they got nothing.
They can't do anything.
And when they finally, and the thing is Alex,
is that, you know how they shut you down?
If they try anything to shut down the president even more,
because even just when they shut down his Twitter,
everybody blew up.
And so it's just like you said, if you strike me down,
I will become more powerful than you've ever been.
And that's exactly what's going to happen to Trump.
And they can't do it.
Well, that's even why Hayden and Panetta said,
you can't get rid of Trump with the economy like this.
We're going to, don't do it.
It's even more dangerous than him.
But a bunch of them can't stop.
That's a great point.
Millie, thank you, Jeremiah.
That's a great point though that I've been trying to make
that even smarter members of the establishment go,
listen, you can't take this guy out now.
What are you thinking?
There's going to be an even bigger reaction to that.
All right.
All right. Millie's having a problem with her Skype.
That's what was happening earlier that made me angry.
We're going to go back to her just a minute as soon as it catches back up.
Let's go ahead and go to Todd in Arizona.
You're on the air with Millie Weaver and Alex Jones.
Thank you for calling, sir.
Hi.
I think that the intelligence organizations have agents that are embedded
in other parts of the government and also that they pay money to people
in industry and in the media.
I was hoping that Trump could start to dismantle some of that government secrecy
and bring transparency by releasing or maybe declassifying and releasing
the people that had desk jobs so that no one's,
no combatants are people that are in harm's way,
but people that are working for these intelligence agencies
in sort of secret ways.
That would help level the playing field.
You've got a bunch of leftists that have been in intelligence agencies
that are called stay-behind networks.
They're in the government sabotaging what Trump does.
I think what you're getting at is how do we expose them
and how do we get them to stop what they're doing
and emboldening all this criminal activity?
That's a great point, Todd. Thank you.
Millie, you were making another point.
Is your Skype back? Go ahead.
Well, I was just going to touch on what he just said here.
Really, when it comes down to draining the swamp,
it's just going to be a matter of exposing who these people are
because it's a reality and a game that's played
where a lot of times you don't know who the leakers are.
You don't know necessarily who some of these swamp creatures are
until it's too late,
but it'll be a matter of exposing them
and then doing whatever you can to either vote them out of office
or elect officials who can appoint people in their cabinet
who are going to be legitimate.
It's so dirty in Washington, though.
Here's the deal. The New York Times is famous for fake sources,
and so Nikki Haley, Huntsman, yeah, they're all talking trash.
They're all swamp creatures.
They all stabbed the president in the back behind his back,
just like McMaster did,
but this New York Times thing is all the famous talking points.
You can see it's been professionally written
as a talking point blueprint for the rest of fake news,
which is the drip, drip, drip, drip, drip, 60 days out.
All right, let's take another phone call here as we go to break.
Let's go ahead and talk to Tim in Montana.
You're on the air, Tim. Thanks for holding.
Good afternoon, Alex. I just wanted to say I am fully animated.
President Trump's going to be landing here in Billings
in just a few short hours.
I'm on the phone with the tip of the spear.
Life couldn't get any better.
I mean, if you want tomorrow's news today, listen to you.
Two years ago, about this time of year,
when President Trump was campaigning,
you had said, we win either way.
If he gets in office and enacts his policies, we win.
And if he doesn't win, he's going to expose the corruption.
We get, I mean, we've gotten double the pot.
I mean, he won. He's exposing the corruption.
If they move against him, there's going to be an insurrection
that life that the world has never seen.
I love his new tweet. I didn't see this from yesterday.
I'm draining the swamp and the swamp is trying to fight back.
Don't worry, we will win. It's true.
I mean, it's so epic, so I tend to get negative and get down.
But thanks to you, Chris, and thanks to all the listeners,
and thanks to Millie and this great group putting up with me,
I think we're going to make it through it.
I think you're absolutely right.
And I think if you were listening this time last year,
I was saying the polls are fake.
Trump's going to win. Remember that?
Oh, yeah. My wife denied the election.
She said, you know, he's not going to win.
I said, you know what? We'll see.
I said, that's not what I hear.
I think he's going to win.
I said, well, I voted for him, but he's not going to win.
I said, we'll see.
I said, I think people are being misled.
You were spot on. You know, I felt like ever since I found you
several years ago with an interview with Dave Mustaine,
I felt like all of a sudden I've got this brother in arms
that understands the world the same way I understand it.
And we're shoulder to shoulder, you know, on the line getting ready
to, you know, just take the truth to people.
And, you know, it's, I just, and I, I try to tell people
that all the time social media is satanic.
It isolates the human spirit under the guise.
Even the former head of Facebook, Sean Parker,
said it's designed to make you depressed under their control.
So break free, go to your own public meetings,
go to Congress yourself, you know, go in the hearings yourself,
talk to the news cameras yourself, do your own streams,
your leaders, you are the answer. God bless you.
We'll come back. Thanks, Tim and Montana.
And we're gonna come back with more calls, but there's a paradox
he made me think of and then I had it in my mind and it left me.
But there's a real paradox that we need to talk about.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen,
our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways
to improve our products. That's why we're bringing you
a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse
Pregnantone product. It features the same great formula
that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill,
it could become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside,
including green DX track, your Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up
all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has,
but it's also got the most edit.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstores.com.
Supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now, because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the censors
can get between us with critical videos, articles,
breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share
the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up
for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
We are winning.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
It's all about 2020. It's all about the next presidential election.
They're all posturing to try to get that.
We'll be right back.
In moments, don't go anywhere.
Anthony Kumi at infowars.com.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
This is a formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process, with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the Real Red Pill,
it could become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract and Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has? It's also got the most in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarsstores.com.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically-study probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients,
these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Welcome back. Anthony Kumi here for AlexJonesInfoWars.com.
So much has gone on this past week. It's frightening when you think about it.
You could look up older programs here on InfoWars or on my show on compoundmedia.com.
And you could go back a year, two years, whatever, and hear me say, well, it has absolutely gotten as crazy as it could possibly get.
I can't imagine the country getting any crazier than this.
And then, boom, it gets crazier. And it's gotten crazier and crazier.
Now I'm at the point where it's so obvious that there is a concerted effort to remove the President of the United States.
That the people that deny it fall into, I think, at least three categories.
They're in on it. They want this to happen. They're in on it.
They are zombies fixated to that news bubble of mainstream media and believe the crap that gets kicked out of there.
And the third one, the dumbest people on the face of the earth that just have no concept of reality.
And those are the ones I think you see screaming in the streets and yelling at the Kavanaugh hearings.
Just mindless morons that never look at any other sources for their news.
Trump derangement syndrome. It certainly does appear to be a real thing.
Well, again, any time you might doubt it, all you have to do is flip on the news and you can reinforce your absolute knowledge in the fact that they are trying to remove a president.
We got the midterm elections coming up in November and they are in, oh my God, full battle mode, the swamp to try to undermine this president.
Try to put out misinformation. Absolutely not talk about any of the great things that are happening here in this country over the past two years of his tenure so far.
And what we're seeing is trying to chisel away at the man's successes. We never hear about it.
It's been two years. We're still here as a country. There hasn't been this war that they promised.
We're not in economic turmoil like they promised when he was elected.
As a matter of fact, the economy hasn't been better. And some of the statistics when you look at unemployment are better than they have ever been.
And by ever, I mean ever, ever been. But you will never hear about that.
What we need to hear about is that there's a mental patient in the White House and we saw this op-ed that came out from the New York Times.
What this is, I believe criminal. I'm no lawyer. I know, I know you might have mistaken me for a lawyer, but I'm no lawyer.
But I gotta say, I can't imagine that somebody in the White House, although we don't know that for sure, they're really speculating as to who wrote this op-ed because of course they're anonymous.
But there is speculation who this is and how close to the president they are.
From reading this, they want it to sound like they are extremely close to the president and have influenced some of his decision-making through deceptive practices, theft and collusion, if I may use that word,
with other people that work with the president to try to thwart him succeeding in doing what he promised to do and got elected for promising to do and is doing it.
So we read this and I just see, if I may use the term scumbag written all over this, whoever wrote this is just a dog.
And the New York Times for printing it has no ethics. There's no journalistic integrity when it comes to anonymous slam pieces like this.
You want to talk about trying to influence an election? There's been an investigation going on for two years now that is trying to uncover this vast conspiracy of collusion that involved the president and the Russians.
And God knows who else to collude to influence an election.
What the hell do you think this is? What do you think the Woodward book coming out now is? What do you think this op-ed, anonymous op-ed piece is?
They have shown their true colors and their agenda since Trump announced his candidacy.
And this is any different? It's a coincidence that this comes out 60 days before the midterm elections.
This is trying to influence an election.
When we look at anonymous sources for news stories, we have this amazing recollection of years ago.
We trusted the media with anonymous sources because they had journalistic integrity.
We believed who was speaking to us on the television or who we were reading about in the newspapers.
These were reporters, journalists, people that we trusted to give us the information that we couldn't just go out and get ourselves.
And we believed them. It's such a nostalgic thought right now.
The only reason we ever trusted anonymous sources when a journalist would tell us,
a source told me this and I printed it and I will not reveal who they are to protect them.
And we were like, okay, for some reason that was something that we felt we owed journalists.
We owed them. They earned that trust from us to be able to say, look, trust me.
This guy said this and we did. We did trust them.
Over the course of the past couple of decades, the degradation of that integrity and the supposed ethics that these journalists had, it's gone now.
It's gone. It's money without anything to back it.
It used to be the gold standard. Their wealth, their gold, their value was their integrity and their ethics, journalistic integrity and ethics.
Now when you hear an anonymous source like this op-ed piece from the New York Times, why do I owe you my trust when all I see is deception
and an agenda-driven broadcast on a daily basis of the bashing and attempts to remove a legally elected president of the United States?
So you can't use that anymore.
The news, the mainstream media cannot use anonymous sources anymore because they've lost that value that they had backing it, which was the integrity behind it.
So this, I would use this op-ed piece to finish up in the bathroom with if it was a little more.
Can you print this on some soft double-ply quilted bathroom tissue?
And then I will use it for what the only thing it's good for, which is cleaning up a bit after you do your business.
Anything else, just not worth the paper it's printed on.
They've shown that it is an effort, a concerted effort between Hollywood, Washington and the mainstream media to undermine and overthrow the president.
Does that sound crazy? Of course it does. Doesn't mean it's not true. They've been calling Alex Jones a conspiracy theorist.
Conspiracy? He's been saying they're going to throw him off the internet. They're doing it. We'll be right back, infowars.com.
Off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top 5 or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter and give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, forward slash show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
You know, if I tried to sit here and tell you about the 60 plus products, we have an infowars life. It'd take hours.
Michael ZX Plus now has a lower price. It's stronger. It's the other equation in probiotics. It knocks out the yeast, the mold, the candida. It's back in stock.
The real red pill, it's been sold out for months. It's got the preglonone that's the precursor to all the natural hormones in your body.
Then it's got all the minerals and the vitamins and amino acids. So you can upload it.
And our latest product that goes great with the super blue colloidal silver and iodine fortified toothpaste is super blue silver immune gargle.
That's a spray you do. You can also swallow it.
It's a supplement with iodine, super high quality silver and a lot more. Without you, we couldn't do it.
So thank you all for remembering infowars.com and remembering that it's not just you that's already awake, but it's other people that aren't awake.
And it's so essential to spread the word. And again, thank you so much for being part of the Second American Revolution.
And to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our First Amendment rights.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Infowars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth.
One of the most popular health trends on the planet. Built with more than seven different super foods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at InfowarsStore.com.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Knockout the powerful sleep aid is now 40% off only at InfowarsLife.com.
This is better than listening to John Kerry speak. It'll put you to sleep faster than John Kerry on a talk show.
The research is clear. Millions around the world struggle to achieve a proper sleep each night.
And the negative health effects of staggering Infowars Life has developed a natural sleep support formula.
That includes the most powerful ingredients for the most affordable price. Knockout goes above and beyond many natural sleep formulas.
By bringing together powerful natural sleep remedies like melatonin, valerian root extract and L tryptophan, just to name a few.
Knockout really works. Just take a look at our customer generated reviews.
Knockout is over 2,000 reviews for an impressive 4.5 star rating.
One guy that didn't agree, he lives next to a construction site that uses bulldozers at 3 in the morning, I swear.
You won't find a better rated sleep aid on the market. Shop Knockout at 40% off to save big on this powerful product at InfowarsStore on InfowarsLife.
Yes, knockout. Thank you. Anthony Comea in at Infowars.
I just want to tell you about my show on compound media is, of course, the Anthony Comea show.
It is available at 4pm Eastern time.
And we have a special coupon code for you, the viewers here, the promo code.
If you go to compoundmedia.com and use Alex20, you get 20% off a new subscription to compound media.
We need to support each other here because this is a war.
There is censorship going on that is unprecedented.
You would think once we got to the point where we had social media, the entire world can speak to each other.
And what did that get? More censorship.
People like Alex Jones being shut down, myself.
I have lost every single social media account that I had kicked off for just speaking my mind.
And they decide to throw you off.
We're going to talk a little bit about that because there were the hearings that we saw and Alex confronting those people.
It was fantastic.
This Jack over there at Twitter, it's Orwellian, and I hate using that.
It's so overused, but it's the only real accurate way to put it.
It's Orwellian, his answers to why certain people get shadow banned and censored and removed, and others do not.
He actually was talking about the fact that he wants Twitter to foster healthy conversations
and not unhealthy conversations.
Doesn't it seem like the best way to run something would be to let the people that are on the service follow other people?
And if they say something, you get to read it.
If you say something, they get to read it.
And we leave it at that.
But no, they have to throw in these algorithms, which are agenda driven and created by this guy and his minion over there at Twitter,
to steer conversations in a certain direction, to come up with a narrative regardless of who is in the conversation.
They want people to be exposed to conversations that best fit their agenda, which is obviously a very liberal agenda.
And anytime he's asked, I love this one too, anytime he's asked, so why was this person taken off?
Well, that was a mistake.
We fixed that.
Oh, yeah, what about this one?
Well, that was a mistake.
We fixed it, though.
If you have to be in front of Congress to be called out for a mistake for it to actually get fixed, because that's the only way it happens.
The average Joe out there doesn't have the ability to have Congress question somebody on their account being taken down.
They've had entertainment for years, and I certainly don't have that privilege to have Congress say, why was Anthony Comey taken off of Twitter?
Well, it was a mistake.
So all their mistakes that are never addressed are removed from Twitter.
They're gone and no longer have a voice on a public forum that is used for world leaders like the President of the United States to discuss policy.
And to discuss intentions and other organizations to discuss their agendas.
And certain people now are not allowed to participate in that conversation based on, exactly, based on what?
I have no idea.
There's never a criteria.
So when you get people like Sarah Jung, she gets on Twitter and she's able to say whatever she wants.
She's a lambasting white man.
Apparently can't stand them.
So she's saying all that and getting away with it, completely getting away with it without being banned.
And the other people who parodied her tweets about white people by adding a Jewish or black or any other minority were, and word for word, the rest of the post was exactly like Sarah's.
But they just changed the word white to black or Jewish or what have you.
They were thrown off.
And again, in front of Congress, Jack goes, yeah, that was that was a mistake.
It was about all the other people that weren't high profile celebrities or communicators that got thrown off.
Do you think they'll be put back on?
You think they'll be verified?
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
It was a mistake.
Yeah.
Well, the mistake now I sit there without the ability to engage in lively debate on social media.
Because both Facebook and Twitter have decided I am not worthy to be on their platform.
Meanwhile, I know the truth.
I'm a loose cannon to them.
They don't like things I say.
It's out of control.
Another point on the triangle of Washington and mainstream media is Hollywood.
Hollywood makes up the third point in the trilogy of idiots that we see on a daily basis.
And I love Hollywood.
Oh, do I love it?
They tell us how we're supposed to act, what we're supposed to think and do.
So we got Asia Argento, part of the Me Too movement, a big part.
She went out on stage and pretty much pointed out the entire audience and said,
you knew what was going on in Hollywood with rape and harassment all these years.
And what did you do?
Well, apparently she was supposed to pay $380 to an underage actor for having sex with him.
Me Too.
There you go.
That's the Me Too movement right there.
Well, now she's not paying.
Her new tack, her new defense, she's now claiming that the underage boy raped her.
Slow clap.
Slow clap because what a set.
What a set she's sporting.
That's her defense that the underage boy.
Could you imagine if the likes of like Kevin Spacey came out and said, hey, he raped me
or Weinstein, all those actresses, I was just doing some work.
I was on the phone with Tarantino and she burst in and said, I want to see you take a shower
and pleasure yourself.
No, but Asia Argento is now saying that she was raped.
She was the one that was raped.
I'm a little distracted out in the studio is the wonderful Ann Coulter.
Ann Coulter is going to be on my program today on compoundmedia.com in mere minutes.
And there's a lot to talk about.
But that's that's Hollywood.
Another thing quickly is I love comedy stand up comics or a lot of my friends are a stand up comics.
And in this day and age, it's almost impossible to get on a stage in a comedy club and do cutting edge funny, sometimes off color comedy.
They are called out and it could be career ending.
And if anything 10 years ago is deemed sexual harassment, like Louis CK, you could be you could lose your lose your career.
Well, how funny does comedy need to be?
Now there's an actual story here that says that there's a certain type of comedy these days that isn't funny.
It's comedy, mind you, but it's based on tragedy.
I want to thank everybody at info wars.com for having me on Alex Jones.
Of course, wonderful.
I'll see you back here very soon.
In the meantime, you can watch me on compoundmedia.com.
Don't forget Alex 20 is the code for a 20% off your subscription.
And we'll see you back here on info wars.com next time.
Have a good one.
Hang in there.
...
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
It is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
