And I grow up, I always be around you guys!
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
We're an American band. Info Wars is made in the USA. Info Wars is made out of pure Americana and victory.
Info Wars is the sword Excalibur to take on the globalist. But you have to pull the sword from the stone. In the Arthurian legend.
Or Roland of the French ethos. Or Elsid of Spain. We are facing the same threats our forebearers did yet again.
Ladies and gentlemen, here we are broadcasting worldwide on this Wednesday, the 12th day of September 2018.
We're going to be live here for the next four hours. We have a raft of really amazing guests joining us.
The gentleman that had nine of his books banned in one day on Amazon. It wasn't Nambla. It wasn't Jihad books. It wasn't books on bomb making.
No, ladies and gentlemen, it was books about how conservative men can pick up women with just standard stuff that I thought men just genetically knew how to do.
Because I've actually read one of these guys' books. I was wondering the big craze about them all few years ago and I was like, doesn't everybody know this?
But whatever. He's joining us. And then we've got a bunch of other special guests. We have former Fox contributor who got drummed out, I think for no reason.
Eric Bowling is going to be in studio. He's now with a CRTV and others EricBowling.com.
Graham Ledger is going to be joining us from One American News with big breaking news. So is Roger Stone, Millie Weaver and so much more today.
But I really want to set the record straight on something when we come back from break that is so simple, so common sense, but also very, very, very profound.
And I just want to be clear about this to everybody and to my enemies and everybody else because the process that Info Wars has been through and the process that our amazing president has been through is a roadmap to either victory or a roadmap to defeat.
So I want to explain to people that really I don't think are sociopaths, but are like sociopath light. There's no reason to talk to the sociopaths or the psychopaths.
But I can try to talk to people that are sociopath light. You've kind of been artificially inducted into this situation so that you really understand the choice you have to make.
So we're going to really cover something extremely profound when we come back from break and then Trump derangement syndrome has gone into full meltdown.
There are so many attacks coming in against conservatives that I can't even keep track of them. You go to the Breitbart article that has like 600.
And none of the dozens that I've experienced personally or my crew have are even in there. So that's an example of just they say for every bad vaccine interaction, there's probably 60, 70, 80 that you don't hear about.
For every bad drug interaction, there's many, many you don't hear about as well.
Well, it's the same thing with attacks. They're epic, epic happening everywhere. Republican buildings being burned down, switchblade attacks, foaming at the mouth, plans for mass gun attacks on Trump Hotel in D.C. where I was just last week.
I mean, it is crazy town for real.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, in full words, life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and omega-3 is found in our high quality, ultra pure krill oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and omega-3, Ultimate Krill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what krill oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil, now available at infowarstore.com.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
We're now 55 days out from the most important election in world history.
Not since George Washington took off arms in 1776.
Have we been at such a crossroads as the one we're now in?
The energy level of the planet is rising!
We're going to break the globalist concentrate for all. You can feel it, but...
Some of us have to really want it. We've got to be the first to slam into the enemy front line.
We'll join all our ancestors in al-hala.
Alright, ladies and gentlemen, let's lay it out.
There is Trump derangement syndrome, switchblade attacks on congressional candidates, firebombing Republican facilities, death threats pouring in, plans for mass shootings discovered,
Congressman Scalise warns of a violent blue wave of evil.
CNN won't report on any of it. That's better than when they celebrated Scalise getting shot and had his friend on to say he was a hero just fighting evil.
Wolf Blitzer looked at him and nodded his head.
Talk about evil. They believe they own you.
I'm going to get into the hurricane that is, thank God, slowing down from a six.
They were estimate to go up to six. It slowed down to a four.
The problem is they think it might stall right over North Carolina instead of running up the coast and kind of giving everybody a little bit of water.
So people are now fighting over food. It's just an example of how civilization is so tenuous right now.
And then we're also going to just get into so much more here today.
Even mainstream news is reporting that more video of staged white helmets who are really ISIS and Al Qaeda.
That's just how they, when they go in an area to fight, they wear white helmets and drive around with red crescents on their vehicles like the Red Cross.
And then they get out, they take the weapons out of the back of the ambulance and start attacking and see it's on video.
Well, the ISIS and Al Qaeda white helmets have now been caught staging more fake video productions about chemical attacks going on in a lib.
I mean, these people don't even try to hide it.
It's like they're saying action Arabic and they tell people that everybody falls over and starts flopping around like dying fish out of water.
It's just so insulting. So we're going to get to all that too.
But let me just make a big announcement here on there.
Because this is the main reason that people don't understand how to take the country back and take the world back.
I mean, this is what I'm about to say. This is the big enchilada.
And it just shows where people come from, from their perspectives.
The media always celebrates my thousands of defeats every day.
Thousands of articles, thousands lying about me saying I'm in sincere total fiction.
And then celebrating our defeat over and over again when I'm not being defeated.
I'm winning. See, I'm not trying to be accepted by the world.
I'm not trying to go to award ceremonies from the establishment.
I wouldn't go. I wouldn't take part in it.
Who was it that said I wouldn't be part of any club that would have me?
I'm a family man and a loner.
Anybody that knows me knows that. I would rather just live up the mountains on a farm.
I'm not a person seeking to be public. I am an introvert.
But I have to be extroverted to defeat the globalist because I will not be their slaves.
And they have roused me from my slumber.
And they've roused many, many other people from their slumber. I'm just a farmer.
But you come after me and my family, I become a warrior.
Now, everyone calls me lawyers and public figures and famous people.
And you name it, and they say, Alex, you need to get back on Google and Twitter and all these other things.
You need to say you're sorry. You need to, my God, how are you taking it? What's it like?
And I'm like, I've never felt better. I've never felt stronger. I've never felt closer to God.
I've never felt satisfied. It's not really a pride because I'm not a prideful person.
It's a satisfaction that I'm honorable and I love God and I love justice.
And that's why all the enemies get financed and paid and pushed and Google and YouTube promote people
that demonize me and lie about me from the establishment angle and from the so-called grassroots angle.
And people set up their self-righteously and claim that I'm not real or that I don't stand for what I stand
when if you look at the doctrine of the tree, all it is, is good fruit and victory.
And that's why I'm under attack. And yes, there's a Streisand effect of it making us for a time more popular.
It's going to be like if you were out in the Arctic and your shelter caught on fire for an hour or so,
you'd be pretty warm outside of it. But once it burned out, you'll freeze to death.
So they're calculating that, okay, Streisand effect, we explode when they totally ban us,
the first person in modern world, to be de-platformed, to be unpersoned.
They know that long term, that will be detrimental to info wars.
And that's only part of setting a precedent to shut other people down.
And it's only part of a precedent to then move on me politically and then move on me criminally.
I'm not at liberty. I'm not going to get into some of the things that have happened last week.
But believe me, what you see on the surface, you think it's a storm on the surface beneath the water.
That's where the real war is going on.
And the only frustration I have is that people don't see how clear it is and understand that this is real authoritarianism, real tyranny.
This is your birthright being stolen from you by really, really bad people who in authoritarian nations are cheerleaders
for horrible political crimes, executions, Christians, Buddhists, you name it, being worked to death, having their organs taken.
Those aren't words. Those aren't horror movies. That's real.
And Google and Apple have moved to China. They've officially said they're not working with the Pentagon or the U.S. government.
I mean, they deserve to be SWAT-teamed six months ago.
All their executives should be arrested immediately. This is World War Four, folks.
This is 21st century six-generational warfare.
And we don't have time to get up to speed on this.
Congress doesn't know what's going on.
The media doesn't know what's going on.
The idiots that even take money to attack me that work at the New York Times and Washington Post, if the globalists are successful,
our entire way of life is over. You're going to be very, very poor.
And they're going to use racial and cultural division to completely control everybody.
It is going to be a horrible country to live in.
This is like burning down your own house.
And so somebody explained something. I do what I do from intellectual research,
and then when I come to the conclusions, from emotion.
I intellectually study things very coldly, and then I then emotionally power myself by emotionally caring about it deliberately
and making myself fully feel the pain and fully feel the threat to activate my instincts and my will to fight it.
Sociopaths attack me and psychopaths attack me because they're going at it from their thing of pressure and people after them
and being attacked and losing things. They wouldn't want that.
I am trying to destroy the globalist. They know that, and they don't know why I won't stop.
And they just keep escalating the attacks because you're bad people.
I instinctively cannot let you rule me and my family or any of these other people. I will go to the end and I am becoming stronger.
God is opening the armories of understanding. Every day my discernment increases exponentially.
So I thank you all for your prayers and everything else, but I want to encourage everyone, if you really want to live,
start fighting evil. Start getting underneath before Jesus Christ and fight the anti-Christ world government beast system because it's almost here.
Health Care Reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions,
navigating the health care system has become a challenge. Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor Helping Neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
No price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV,
even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful. FakeTV.com.
Researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
The pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infoworthlife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We are drugged out. We are following other people's opinions. We are controlled by the media. Today, it all changes. This reality has been forced upon us. It is a choice, just like when I said slavery is a choice.
Einstein says the depth of insanity is doing the same thing, expecting a different result. So we keep on saying, I hate you, I hate you, fuck you, fuck you. How are we going to get a different result out of hate?
Why don't we just try love? Why don't we just try love? We have the resources for a peaceful world. You know, sometimes you need some crazy motherfuckers to change something.
Steve Jobs is crazy. Now we all know Steve Jobs phones. They say Trump's crazy. They say I'm crazy. But I'm here to show love. It's a bigger plan and I'm just doing what the universe told me.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
We're going to get into all the news in the next segment and have a special guest who just had his book banned. None of his books banned by Amazon.
But first, I want to just restate what I was saying earlier. This is some of the most important information all over here. So I hope that you'll listen to me very carefully.
Everyone who's trying to go along with the system and who thinks it's stupid to fight the corrupt system.
Isn't understanding historically the Renaissance and the West and everything good came out of individuals standing up to corrupt authoritarian power structures and demanding basic rights for humanity and basic rights for people to think and do as they personally want to do without a power structure telling them what to do.
And classical tyranny with a high tech overlay is being foisted upon us right now. So if everyone else gets intimidated and everybody else gets threatened and bullied when they stand up to the system, they get taken off the air, they get censored, they get attacked.
They run into that stimulus, that bad stimulus. You can look at an amoeba. There's lots of microscope videos of this on YouTube. Amoeba runs from heat source. And then they can put a little wire with some heat on it into a Petri dish with some amoebas.
And the amoebas will all run. They're single cell organisms. They have a tail, but they feel the heat and they run. They run.
Now, I'm not an amoeba. So when I see scientific psychology, which they admit the internet was set up for to track you and control you, manipulating people were, oh, you get more tweets, you get pushed if you slap Alex Jones upside the head or if you promote this corporate idea.
So you think through the stimulus, you're getting the carrot because you're going along with it and because you're getting pushed out there because you hate Trump or you hate America or whatever. Or you push lies about info wars from above and below, from an establishment angle and from a conspiracy angle.
But no, what you're doing is being given a poison. You're being given a carrot that is poison. So there's a carrot in the stick. There's the heat makes the amoeba run away.
But there's also the food you can put in there that the amoeba doesn't know is poison and it comes over and eats it and dies.
So see, I have to make the decision. These are globalists. They're going to demonize me. They're a foreign multinational power. They are a technotronic technocracy using psychological warfare in their own white papers.
They admit this to control people and they want a docile, dumb down world population so that they're in full control and then now they want to phase out that population and they're replacing us with robots.
Of course I'm going to fight that. Of course I'm going to fight Apple and Google going to communist China and then trying to bring that tyranny here.
People call me and they go, man, why'd you go getting Marco Rubio's face? Why'd you go to that hearing? Why'd you do that? You know they're going to ban you.
Exactly. I have to go up front and make an issue out of this so we don't just incrementally slide into a hot bath like a frog and boil to death.
I jumped out of the pot and they're like, well, if you jump out of the pot, they'll try to grab you in the kitchen and put you back in the pot.
Well, maybe that screen door is banging a little bit and maybe I jump on the floor and I hop outside and I get in the creek. All I know is I'm not staying in this hot water that's starting to boil.
And you're like, well, you'll live five minutes longer politically if you just stay in the boiling water. No. I jumped out of the pot and the globalists just keep attacking me and threatening me and doing dirty tricks behind the scenes and doing things I won't say on air.
Okay. And I have obvious reasons for that because then those things are used against me and it's used against my family.
But the point is, is that they're trying to put me in prison right now. They are trying to do the finale.
And at a spiritual level, I don't want to die, but at a spiritual level, I don't have any fear because I know I'll be with God.
And it's also exhausting to have to be good and stand against this and give every bit of my will. I want to fight to the end.
But at the same time, I don't have a death wish. I never commit suicide. At the same time, I'm free of these people.
It's like V for Vendetta where they take her for the mock execution. She says, go ahead and kill me. And they go, okay, you're free now.
And it was V getting her to that point of how powerful she was once she truly was ready to do whatever it took for the children
and how they were putting bio weapons in the vaccines. So the Wachowski brothers are telling you what's really going on.
And that's the gravitas of those art productions is because they have truth hidden in them and then you resonate because your subconscious is hundreds of times more powerful than your conscious.
And you know the truth. And so it resonates with you. So we're facing a tyranny. It's not even left wing. It's just authoritarian.
It's a virtue signaling tyranny that uses a bunch of political correctness as its camouflage, but it's very corporate, very fascistic in its own words.
It's dictatorial by their own definition at Davos, a technocracy means a ruling group controlling you with technology, an oligarchy.
And so Zuckerberg says, I think Alex Jones wanted to be banned. No, Zuckerberg. I didn't want to be banned. I was already shadow banned.
A, your premise is wrong. B, I cannot stop what I'm doing. But I did accelerate my banning.
I told my father a week before they're going to ban me. I just knew and see the enemy can't stand that that I've got my own supercomputer.
We all do. Yeah, they're AI so smart. Okay, yeah, right. They're scared of real human potential, but see sociopaths and psychopaths.
Zuckerberg is a genetic psychopath. He's been bred for that. That's what really pissed him off because he knows he is a genetic psychopath.
Everybody that knows him knows that he is a just a soulless monster that wants pure power.
And so is Tim Cook is a monster, a monster. The head of Google is a monster.
They have no emotion but domination and power. And so they keep going. Why won't Jones stop? Is he crazy? Why won't he stop? We're going to destroy him.
Because I have a soul and see I'm here just like my ancestors were to expend my energy for the larger goal of humanity in God's plan,
which I'm only privy to a little bit, but I know way more than you'll ever know.
You understand? So I'm jacked in to the big frequency, not your little fake frequency down here. And so I am absolutely blessed and I'm just celebrating this.
And just it's all in God's hands. And when I pray, I don't ask God for things.
I just try to just humble myself in the spirit and the strength and the power and then the understanding of the knowledge just pours in.
It's unbelievable. It's unspeakably incredible.
We're good old fashioned comfort. Get Diamond Gusset Genes. Every stitch guaranteed. And our Defender Motorcycle Gen comes cavilar reinforced.
See them at gusset.com or call 888-848-7738. That's 888-848-7738. Diamond Gusset Genes got it. Others don't.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well. infowarslife.com or triple A 253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are. And they know we know who they are. And they're coming back against us so we need your support.
infowarslife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a best source prebiotic fiber. And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for
regularity and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, fluorolife, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut. So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time. And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out. And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
Our store is completely off of dozens of major platforms where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds. Go to infowars.com.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com.
How they can download the free Android and iPhone apps. How they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info. This is what they don't want you to see.
Live, Raw and Unfiltered by Globalist Propaganda. It's the Alex Jones show. Tomorrow's news today.
55 days out. The most historic election in world history. Council on Foreign Relations, the Chai Coms, all of them admit that themselves. A referendum. Not just on Americanism versus Globalism, Nationalism, Free Market versus Crony Capitalism and Communism.
But a referendum on Silicon Valley and the big corporate media and Hollywood crush the American populist insurgency. Because their sociopaths and psychopaths that don't have real emotion, only the emotion of domination and repine.
They don't understand that when they oppress us, it only makes us fight harder. It's like Hitler.
The British wouldn't give up. He was only targeting military facilities. If he had kept doing that, he would have won.
But he began to target civilians. That hadn't been done up until that point. Chivalry went up the window.
And they began to carpet bomb London and other major cities to the ground. And surprise, surprise, killing tens of thousands of children made the Brits shake off all that imperial conditioning to be little levy dives and they became psychotic killers.
And then 20 million Germans died. Funny thing, thing happened in Russia. Killing millions of Russian peasants didn't make the Russians give up. It made them become killers.
They already hated their own government. But once that happened, they were unified. So it's a crazy time. And he joins us for two segments.
After he leaves, this will get into Wyoming GOP offices set on fire. Two days after it opens, Secret Service investigates actress Carol Cook over assassination comment.
CNN refused to report on attempted stabbing attack on Republican candidate by Democrat screaming F Trump, F Trump. And then Congressman Scalise warns of the evil blue wave of violence that's coming and citing violence.
There's so much more. Plans to mass attack the Trump Hotel in D.C. where I was just staying last week. But we are joined by bestselling author.
He's written a whole bunch of books. Ninam got banned two days ago. And he goes by, well, his last name is Valizadev. But it's Roush V, if I'm pronounced that right.
And I've actually read one of his books. It's been all the big craze. And also, I got to know Neil Strauss is kind of one of the big dogs in this.
A few years ago, I said, well, how about I actually read a few of these books? And a lot of it just seems like normal mammal mating behavior.
But the point is, we've still got people bomb building books are on there. You've got people on Amazon selling manuals on how to sexually mutilate people.
You've got Nambla writing books that are sold on Amazon. And by the way, they have a right to write books saying they want to have sex with your kids.
They don't have right to have sex with your kids. And I think it's terrible and horrible. But when you get to the point of banning books, when you claim you're this big global bookstore, because your books were bestsellers,
and because you sold 2000 to one day, I think it's a clear and present danger. So thanks for joining us.
I mean, you look at this whole constellation of censorship here. And it really shows they're making their move.
And I think we're hitting a singularity of censorship that China's helped develop with Google and Apple coming here.
And I think we're being tested. And I think we're, I think Congress and the Republicans and Trump on this issue, rhetoric isn't enough saying it's illegal.
This needs to be dealt with now with emergency executive orders. But that's my point on that. Thanks for joining us.
Thank you, Alex. You know, when I saw them going after you, I knew that authors and other people who have platforms like me were next.
You yesterday, me today. And, you know, one thing is I've never seen such an un-American action the way they went after you. They took you off platform after platform.
I mean, this is going against tort law restraint of trade. I mean, I think a lot of people are fortunate that you are still here because a lot of lesser men wouldn't have been able to withstand this onslaught.
So, you know, I'm not feeling good right now. Once Amazon took nine of my books out, but I can't imagine what you had had to feel.
One thing that I can say is that when my book was doing well, when it cracked the top 1000 on the Amazon list, that's when the bad emails started started coming in.
You know, I could have a book that's ranked 50,000 and they don't say anything. But once you start to red pill the masses, once you're effective, then that's when they start to come after you.
Roosh V best-selling authors are guests and that's exactly right when our app that we just launched a week before we got banned. So we launched it in late July. It was already the top 50 of news apps when they banned us on 20 plus platforms.
It went to number one in a week on both platforms, Apple and on Android. And then they just delisted it where you couldn't see it in the charts. And then somehow it was climbing back up the charts.
So I guess they must have removed not all the subscriptions, but at least the total numbers that was going back towards number one again. And it was like number 24 last Friday when they killed it out of the app store.
Now, 2 million downloads of the Apple app. People can still get the Android app for now in infowars.com forward slash app. And if you have it on your phone will still be there for a few years until it's obsolescent.
But the point is, is that, yes, they have algorithms at Amazon that were out three years ago where they know what prime customers are going to order with 99% accuracy before you order it days.
And they have computers and robots that go package it ready before you order it. Now, that's that's what they admit they've got. So exactly they knew you were going to number one. They knew I was already at number one.
And so that's what they do with this NSA technology. These private companies have is they stop the fact that we are the dominant culture. The women men, they want what we say. They know it's true.
They want success. They want Americana. They want, as Robert DeVall says in that work, a big, you know what hit. Okay. I mean, this freedom is the luscious Marilyn Monroe laid out with her, you know, her feet behind her ears.
And I hate to use that analogy, but it's true. America is the is the cream dollar cream of Renaissance people want it, but they won't let us have it.
You know, if you had a radio show helping transgender handicapped people trying to give them entered entertainment, no one would ban you from anywhere.
If I wrote a book on how to help gay gay couples or if I wrote a book on how to help people who like to wear furry costumes, how they can mate, no one would ban me too.
Once you help the strongest members of people in this country, then they're going to go after you. If you're attacking, if you are helping families, if you're helping straight men, if you're just helping people try to live normal lives, trying to be as self sufficient as possible, trying to help men and women connect, trying to have a nuclear family.
If you're igniting the true power of the species, you must be blocked.
So, I mean, this is, if I like, I have a cover on my book, it's basically a man and a woman sitting under a tree.
It's a beautiful cover. It's so romantic. It makes me want to sit under a tree with my wife.
But if I put two SJWs with blue hair weighing 500 pounds each and them doing some weird things, then Amazon would feature it on their home page. So what we have is this inversion where anything that was normal or should be is now wrong and it's hate speech.
You're going to be banned. You're going to be called a racist.
Beauty and function and things that work ergonomically that are designed or being attacked because if you go back to the leftist controlling the CIA in the 60s, this is declassified.
They said, we want ugly buildings that crush your spirit. We want ugly art to hold it up so that people reject beauty. And that's it.
It's a feedback loop that they give all these weird betas, a program to be hateful and dumb and evil. And if they do it, they get promoted. It's a very satanic plan.
If I said that every man should drink a liter of soy juice every day or soy milk every day and explore the other gender, maybe I'd get interviews on CNN.
But the fact that I say men shouldn't do that, then they're going to make sure that my books don't even crack the top 1000.
And let's talk about your books when we come back and Neil Strauss and all of it because, I mean, it's true, these leftist women on average are totally alone, totally freaked out, manhating and it's been done by design.
And then it's a well-known phenomenon. I'm not going to get into too much of it, but like democratic strategist women and stuff literally worship conservative men.
And, you know, I won't do it, but they want you to slap them around. You name it. We'll be right back.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
It's a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high-quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfoWarsStore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and the rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.
We are back live, ladies and gentlemen.
So, like night follows day and day follows night,
and Alex Jones, now every conservative, every libertarian, every commonsense person,
survival, military sites, pro-gun sites, self-helps, everything's being blocked that's positive.
We're being demoralized like a foreign occupying army that takes over your country, demoralizes you.
These are classic tactics they're using. We're going to go back to best-selling author,
Ruch V, who just had his book game that was going to the top of the charts band along with eight or nine other books of his,
and where he thinks this is all going and how prompts to strike back.
But first, I got some good news and I got some bad news.
It was five, six years ago that we were putting out the cleanest seaweed-based iodine,
because all the other stuff's unfortunately a bunch of garbage and really bad for you.
That's why it makes you sick.
You know about lower IQs, don't have an iodine, you die without it.
Like oxygen, like water, like vitamin C, you got to have it.
And it's the good halogens that get us with the chlorine, the fluoride, all the bad halogens.
But this isn't a periodic table. It is the halogen, the good one.
And it's just incredible. I mean, I eat like a pig, live like a pig,
work out half as hard as I used to and, you know, are 50 pounds lighter.
I build like a gorilla, so I look big, but people see me on my shirt off, I'm not fat.
But the point is, is that the oil companies that we get this from
and the whole DEA process and everything, this is a controlled substance in the precursor of it,
because it's so pure, it's not once you get it.
It's incredible. Survival Shield X2 is selling out.
I don't have a contract for it anymore, I can't get it anymore.
We may be able to get it.
I told you I was having problems six months ago and boom, it happened.
So if you want it, it's still 25% off.
We bought a big stockpile to get the price down,
but then that deal fell through for the next deal.
So I'm not going to sell us for $100 a bottle to you.
So it's, what is it right now, like $29.95?
It's at infowarstore.com, infowarstore.com, enforcelife.com.
Look at that, 6,000 plus reviews from third-party site power reviews, 98%.
That funds our operation.
And we're working on getting it again or something new or a new formulation or whatever.
But the way the rules work with the FDA and stuff is that if you reformulate something,
you got to call it something different.
So this is the end of X2.
You want it, infowarstore.com.
Just experience it for yourself and be careful with it because it's like,
imagine you don't have oxygen, you come up from the water.
It's like, I mean, it's amazing.
And it's a fact you die without iodine and they're doing everything they can
because they know there's iodine naturally in seafood and iodine in a few things,
but bad halogens block it.
So, but this is so pure, 999,999,999.
Nobody else, it's always bound to something else.
This is pure.
I mean, look, there it is at 90 degrees.
It turns into gas.
Like, Genie's going to come out of it or something, you know.
Kids don't know what that is.
A show like I Dream on Genie and I'll just look like that.
But that's what this is doing.
That's how pure this is.
And they pull strings behind the scenes to stop us from having the damn product.
So I'm not going to sell it at full price.
I usually discount 25% what's there.
All right, let's go back to our guest.
I'm trying to give him the floor because I've been ranting.
You're a smart guy.
And I've read one of your books.
It just seemed like common sense stuff.
It's the physiology of women versus men.
They're so threatened by it because they're targeting that and breaking it.
And leftist women particularly are so hungry for the normal male-female interaction.
And the whole system in their own documents is to break that.
So why were you the first person?
Because they mess with other conservative authors and play games or it goes to, you know, number 100 or whatever.
And then Amazon doesn't reorder.
I mean, they do that a lot too.
But yours just banned and then they wouldn't comment.
And again, not banned because it wasn't selling.
And Amazon's always, oh, we'll sell everything unless it's illegal.
Your books are pretty, they're interesting.
They're well-written.
The one I read, pretty milk toast.
So, I mean, it's the truth.
So why is this happening?
Right now we live in a culture where only women can be empowered to achieve their goals and their dreams
and to get the most happiness out of life.
We're not allowed to empower men because don't you know that men have been holding women down for thousands of years.
So now men are being pushed down.
So anyone, any author who wants to help men and I try to help men connect with women on their terms
without getting abuse from women, women who cancel dates or cheat on them.
I'm trying to empower men to help understand women, how to connect with them, how to get happiness from them.
But in a culture where men are treated like dirt, you're not allowed to do that.
And as you noted, there's nothing in my book that is particularly graphic.
There's no abuse.
I tell men when a woman says no, it means no.
Stop means stop.
I mean, Amazon sells a lot of graphic novels.
They sell covers with sex acts depicted on the actual cover.
But you can't sell a book that helps men.
Anything that helps men, they're going to try to stop you.
And I think that's what they're doing to me.
If you look at the Romans taking over Germany or Gall, the first thing they did was kill the men.
And then kids under 10 boys were kept and women.
Targeting men by an occupying army is 101 for takeover.
Yeah.
So I mean, what they're trying to do, I think they're pushing men to get weaker and weaker
because what is really the only threat to an oppressive government?
It's men.
It's men, families, tribes.
Why do they always make that weird soy boy face?
Like you have to make the soy boy face to work at BuzzFeed or the New York Regal.
I mean, what is that?
I think they hire them based on how weak they actually are.
The more weak you are, the less likely you're going to stand up for yourself and the ideas that you believe in.
They give you an office in CNN, BuzzFeed.
I saw you confront Oliver Darcy.
He looked like he was going to pee his pants.
I've never seen a man so scared and you didn't even raise your fist.
You didn't do anything wrong, but he looked frightened.
And it's because CNN hires the weakest people, people who follow orders, people who are desperate for a little bit of glory.
You know, a lot of these journalists, whether they work at CNN or BuzzFeed, they have always been, they've never felt powerful.
They've never felt like they made a difference.
So the only way they can do it today is by tearing men like you down, tearing men like me down, by tattletailing, by running to Amazon, to Facebook and Twitter
and saying, oh, look, Alex Jones said a bad word.
Oh, look, Alex Jones is number one.
Oh, look, Roushfi is number one.
Oh, stop.
They're only good at tearing people down.
What have they made?
Have they created a video platform, a radio show?
Have they written a book?
All they can do is take people down.
Their sole means of content is attacking.
And what I want to ask you, Alex, since you've been through this, is what can I do now?
What can we do?
I've been de-platformed from PayPal, Shopify, Disgust, now Amazon.
What can the little guy do who doesn't have this backing, who just wants to put out a good book, who wants to help people?
What is the next step?
If you look at these folks that are brainwashed and are sociopaths or just trying to serve the system as mercenaries, they think if they're attacked, that means they're losing.
So I think we have to raise the alarm and say the social engineers believe that we're going to adapt to being slaves.
We have to say it's not work to fight back against tyranny.
It's like lifting weights because it's fun or taking a jog because it feels good.
There's some pain up front, but then it becomes an addiction.
We have to get addicted to fighting these tyrants.
Then we have to revel in the fact that we are the human spirit against these horribly greedy technocrats that want to end the human spirit because they're threatened by human free will and renaissance.
And that just like Trump wants success and you want success and I want success, that we do have the light in the dark of the night and raise the alarm.
And people need to celebrate those of us that are persecuted.
And again, the enemy is accelerating their plan five or six years because they're behind and because they see the global awakening.
So we're actually winning right now.
It's just that those of us at the tip of the spear that get banned first, the enemy has computer algorithms to track who's most effective.
They have models of who to get. They can see where you're going, where I'm going, our trajectories.
So people need to celebrate the human weapons systems that we are for success against tyranny and against this cancer of noncompetitive globalism, this anti-human, post-human system.
We have to celebrate the people that have been targeted and realize what they're doing.
I know you've got to go. We'll do five more minutes and after one minute break, we'll get finished.
We have to celebrate the people that have been attacked first because those are the people that have the antidote.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah, but at the same time, a lot of men, they can't take the abuse from getting de-platformed and banned.
So men like us, we see what is going on and we wake up the next day and say to ourselves, I'm not going to stop.
I'm not going to quit. As long as I'm still alive, I'm not in jail, I'm going to still try to put out the work that I believe touches a lot of people.
But we have feelings too. We have a heart too.
So how much can they give us until we just feel like there's no more options?
It's funny you say this because I have two segments on this because this is the answer. I know you've got to go, but come back for a full hour next week.
Let's go to break for two minutes. I want to come back and just try to get into this with you.
But just briefly, here's the issue.
I'm not a sadomasochist. I don't like to dish out pain. I don't like to take pain. I'm not a masochist.
But humans have to know how to go through pain for the good of the species.
It's not a collectivism. It's individualism where I'm an individual collectivist to turn my head.
But the point is, I'm going to try to explain this when we come back in two minutes and let you finish up, is that we have to take this pain,
just like gravity causes pain, but that's how we live and walk, to get to the next level.
And we have to realize the stimuli they're hitting at us is because we're winners. They're attacking us because of that.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms,
there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to,
their minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
So Roushvi had nine of his books including his best-selling book game deleted, removed
from physical sale and digital download from Amazon about a day and a half ago when he was talking.
I only know about Hollywood because I was in a few movies and a bunch of TV shows.
I've been out there a few hundred times and went right to the top of the scene
because they were trying to get me on board 15 years ago.
And a few years into it I saw how bad it was and I got out of it.
But when you look at the whole system they're pushing, things like,
oh women, go to a guy's house, get tied up.
Well, the first time you get tied up they don't actually kill you or torture you to death.
But maybe the hundredth time you don't tell them where you're going and it all happens,
you get deep into it, there's a really, and the left is,
and the globalists are really into abusing women and children as you know.
So then they act like men being men is horrible and abusive when the left is the worst towards women.
So Roushvi was kind of getting into that.
His book, You Have a Right to Sell, 50 Shades of Grey,
and these young women out there and everybody else want you to beat them up, all this other stuff.
So like beating women up is cool and torturing them is cool because it's 50 Shades of Grey.
But if you tell a woman you're not going to abuse me and I'm my own man and I'm confident
and I don't need you if you don't want me that's fine,
which is what they're actually looking for, they want an alpha male that's successful,
then you're abusing women. So torture women like the nexium liberal cult, that's okay.
But don't tell men to stand up for themselves.
Don't moralize men, demoralize them.
And I think you knocked it out of the park Roushvi with that.
Yeah, right now you're not allowed to help men.
Any problem a man faces, that's your problem.
You have to figure that out on your own.
No media company is going to help you.
No academic university system, the government.
No one will help you.
You are on your own.
Okay, I'm on my own.
Let me solve these problems.
Because men are the genetic defense system of the species from African lions to homo sapiens sapiens.
This is so kind of an alien force invaded.
They would target our men.
Yeah, and then even when we try to solve our problems, then they say, no, you're not allowed to.
You can't read this.
You can't watch Alex Jones.
You're not allowed to get the knowledge that can help you out.
So they're really cutting off every avenue possible for a normal person, for a man to improve his life to understand the world.
And that's the most unfair thing that they can actually do.
And I'm not sure what we can do after that.
I don't know if you can see Alex, but I have a huge picture of Donald Trump in the background.
And I like him, I support him, but he needs to do something because these tech monopolies are just going to chop our heads off one at a time.
If they can shut you down in YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, who can't they shut down?
Everyone else is smaller than you.
You are the big tree in the forest.
They just chopped down the biggest tree.
So of course, the smaller trees are going to be easier.
Well, that's really the message they're mad with the demonetization of the last two years and the demonetization that people haven't bought.
So we care about the ideology of freedom, not the money.
And that's now the message is we'll just totally delete you.
And we know you're Pavlovianly addicted to Twitter and YouTube.
And so this is the big fight.
And so let me tell you, just like the NFL is going down, night's going down, my friend, Roushvi, they're hurting themselves to do this.
You know, one thing they cannot force us to read bad books.
They cannot force us to watch Oliver Darcy read his trash, to watch Huffington Post videos talk about how transgender people have it bad.
They cannot force us yet.
It's not like in Clockwork Orange where they force our eyes open and we have to consume their horrible propaganda.
We're not there yet.
One thing, a lot of news articles on Gizmodo, Huffington Post try to say, oh, look how great it is that Roushvi's canceled.
But no one is clicking them.
No one is reading them because people don't read their propaganda.
I was about to say, they're such, they're reveling in being classical villains.
I mean, they're just, they're truly evil.
Well, please come back again.
God bless you.
You're not an elite group, but not for long.
Everybody's getting banned.
Congress must act.
This is rack of tearing.
This is un-American.
This is very, very dangerous.
God bless you.
We'll talk to you soon.
Okay, great.
If anyone wants to learn about game in my e-book, they can go to my site, roushvi.com.
That's right.
Roush, R-O-R-R-O-O-S-H-V-E-E.
We'll be right back.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Is it strange that if you're going to write a science fiction novel about a dystopian
world government banning free speech, destroying families, poisoning the food and water supply,
the population, where do you think in that novel written in the 1950s, the resistance
would come from America?
And where would the real fire start?
Texas.
See, that's how a science fiction writer would write it, because everybody knows it, because
art follows life.
The system always tries to make it where life follows art, but it's art follows life.
Again, the globalists keep saying, Jones, when are you going to learn?
We're going to destroy you.
We're going to physically destroy you if you don't stop.
You're already going to physically destroy me.
They report that children committing suicide from the 1950s numbers is up 20,000 percent.
That was in the news yesterday.
They're like, why are children committing suicide?
Because this is an anti-human evil system by design.
We're already dying.
We're dead already.
So they'll have more suicide prevention classes teaching kids about suicide and how to do it.
We'll have more suicide.
And we'll give them more drugs that the insert says makes them commit suicide.
And then we'll wonder why suicide goes up.
Riddle me this, Batman.
Ah, Batman, riddle me this.
Everyone's committing suicide.
The pills I give them do it.
It's funny.
Riddle me this, riddle me that.
I don't need to be the riddler to know the answer to that.
Trump comes out and says there's too many people on opioids.
There are too many people doing that.
They all shut up and stop telling us what we're going to do.
Trump's like, the vaccines are hurting kids.
Oh, shut up, Trump.
One in 30,000 out of autism.
Now it's one in 58.
I go to the mall or restaurant.
Half the kids I look at look like they're real sick and got problems, even in rich neighborhoods.
And a good 10 percent are gone.
And I start getting tears in my eyes.
My wife's like, don't cry.
Don't do it.
But man, when you look at some beautiful child who had a beautiful life ahead of them and
they got hit with a chemical bio weapon and their brains fried, it's meant to give you
an IQ reduction of 20 points, but some people it hits harder, especially males, 80 percent
of autism is males.
And you had to pesticides and everything else in, but they had these neuroviruses to the
vaccines.
That's declassified and it just hits the cerebral cortex and their operating system, their connection
to their subconscious is fried.
Their souls walled off and they didn't put the present.
They put them in a basically five by nine box and they're pretty pissed.
They're pretty pissed.
And that's just one of the more ancient technologies they developed 40 years ago to do that.
And again, they get satanic power off of putting your child in a cage.
You know, the amount of demonic energy they get off of the 100 million autistic kids that
are in cages because it eats the cortex.
So then, you know, they're not getting out.
The soul can't get out.
I'm in here.
Get me out of here.
They're like, bro, bro, bro, bro, bro, bro, bro.
Let's slowly buy a smile.
So Millie, we were joining this.
She's been talking a lot of her sources about things going on in Canada, folks in the Canadian
government.
One of her sources has gotten some good info before, but you can see the buildup.
They say they have a stay behind network trying to overthrow the president.
And they're putting sticky stickers on his back to piss him off saying he's an idiot.
And they got signs over the door saying entering crazy town society.
Seeing him saying remove the president.
He can't control the White House while they're the ones engaged in sedition.
And you've got all this insanity going on the massive censorship, the attacks, 55 days out.
It's all building, building, building.
And we've got freedom and salvation and everything just waiting.
It will just turn back to God.
Millie, thanks for joining us in full wars.com.
Reporter Charles does freelance reporting.
There's a great job.
Thank you so much for coming on.
How are you doing?
Thanks.
I'm doing good.
Alex.
Well, I actually have permission from my source to divulge and tell some background
information on this source just so people could understand the importance and the credibility
of where the information I'm going to lay out is coming from.
This person was the author of the SDI program.
Your skype is breaking up for a minute.
It's crystal clear, but it's breaking up body wise.
Let's just start over.
And the source is up in Canada.
He says there's some big stuff gearing up.
So just continue.
Yes.
This is a high level intelligence source.
He was the original author of the SDI program, which was a white pepper that Reagan quoted
in the 1980s.
He was a former Air Force intelligence.
You know, basically this person has a huge background personally knows the Trudeau family
knows Justin Trudeau and essentially contacted us very alarmed saying that Canada is, you
know, talking about and considering initiating the War Measures Act.
And this for those of you who don't know the War Measures Act is the martial law version
of what we have in the US for Canada.
And he's talking about Trudeau is talking about essentially enacting the War Measures Act
in response to failed negotiations between Trump with NAFTA and Canada.
Basically trying to use a justification that if the negotiations go sour, it's going to
hurt Canada enough to where we're going to go ahead and enact the War Measures Act,
which is a martial law in Canada.
And this has to do with what's going on right now with the coup in our government because
we know that Trudeau is a leftist in Canada.
He aligns himself with the leftists in America, the Democrats, the globalist deep state.
And these globalist deep state people we all know have been chattering and talking about
an overthrow of President Trump.
And let's remember going back a year and a half ago, we said they were preparing this
because it was in white papers.
Now they admitted a lot of the news.
I mean, they are open and now they've got leftist committing violent acts all over the country,
bombing Republican buildings, trying to stab congressional candidates, trying to attack
Trump facilities in DC.
This is getting crazy.
Well, you would think that Canada, given the position they're in and how the trade could,
you know, the NAFTA negotiations, if it fell through, could impact Canada's economy.
You think that Trudeau would be trying to make concessions to come to a deal with Trump,
but instead Trudeau is, you know, sticking his feet down, being stubborn, saying no.
And it really kind of begs the question, has Trudeau been offered a better deal by these
Democrats or by these people who are plotting this coup against Trump once they over.
No, I understand.
But from your source, I mean, Canada is obviously in a big trade fight.
They're being cut out of that because they won't renegotiate.
Trump's like, you can't have 280% tariffs on us and we have none on you.
Just please stop raping us.
And so Trudeau's flipping out.
We see major free speech violations.
We've seen a lot of drills in Canada, but you're saying your source says they're getting
over martial law.
What's the reason for that?
They think the stabilization of the U.S. are trying to stop Canadians rising up or what?
Well, you can actually even look and see in the news headlines, just type in Canada War
Measures Act on even Google News and several mentions of it will come up in recent articles
where Trudeau's making these threats.
It's very vague and ambiguous how they're doing it.
Sure.
What do you think is going on?
What's your source say?
Well, the source is saying that we have simultaneous things happening right now.
We have globalists inside the U.S. government on both sides of parties.
That means Democrat and Republican, which are going for the removal of Trump, the impeachment,
the coup, the overthrow of Trump.
Well, at the same time, you have an activation of Islamic terror cells being activated throughout
the U.S. and Canada and there's tons of back chatter right now in the intelligence agency.
Oh, yeah.
We were the first to break the Iranian sleeper cells that have been activated.
Now that's mainstream news.
You're right.
So this is a maximum danger.
They covered up that Islamic cell out in New Mexico.
I mean, it is crazy.
I mean, we would stay there.
Let's put the pieces together on the other side.
Bottom line, 55 days out.
Everybody better be watching their six, praying to God and being politically active because
right now history is being made.
Protect your online privacy.
Go Berkey.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet built with more than seven different super foods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstool.com.
Feeling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
Canada is still a Commonwealth of Her Majesty's Kingdom, Queen Elizabeth II.
And they have martial law provisions that they can put into effect.
And Trudeau has been making some noises about that.
They're already arresting preachers that criticize homosexuality.
They're basically an SJW palace like Germany or Sweden.
Totally open to radical Islam. You name it.
England's releasing people from jail that are admittedly involved in bombings.
That's in the news at newswars.com.
So there are massive Islamic terror cells.
Iran's the big threat inside the Western world.
I told you months before it was mainstream news that they have sleeper cells that they've activated that are ready to start taking action.
And that's kind of the leftist Achilles heel they think on America and Canada and Europe.
That if you don't behave, we've got 5-10% Muslim populations.
We snap our fingers. They go on jihad.
It was kind of like you'd escape from New York.
They put little explosives in its carotid arteries.
That's what Islam is.
And they put that in.
It's like we're barren harkening in the heart plug in the movie Doon.
I don't like you.
I'll just pull the heart plug out and your blood all pours out of your heart.
I mean, that's basically what this is.
They're mining the bridges. They're mining the cultural dams to blow them.
So it's like a robber when he gets caught robbing a bank.
He puts the gun to your head.
And that's what I have to cover up for Islam.
They have to always let people out and they commit terror attacks because they don't want you to know they're letting Islam in to then take your rights.
So Millie Weaver, reporter for infowars.com.
She's one of the only folks not purged off the precious Twitter as people can follow her there for now.
Other points on what your source is saying he thinks is coming in Canada.
I think the fact that Canada is gearing up, as you say, for an emergency from according to your source with all the other calls to have a coup against Trump.
I think that just fits into the overall climate.
Exactly, Alex.
That's the whole point I'm trying to make here is that this source who personally communicates with and knows Trudeau and has privy information is basically saying in a panic.
Canada is preparing itself for measures that they could take in the event of a coup or an overthrow in the United States.
And why would they why would they have a knowledge of that if it not for the fact that Justin Trudeau himself is a leftist that aligns himself with the left and the deep state that would be talking about and plotting the overthrow.
Oh, I mean, it's fair to say that Justin Trudeau is the it's a very crude term and I hate to use it, but it absolutely fits.
It's true. I mean, Justin Trudeau is the butt plug of the New World Order.
I mean, let's just say he's the sewer line of the New World Order.
He's just a horrible creature says don't use the words mother and father.
He is totally committed to evil.
And I know the Canadians are totally upset with him.
They want to get rid of him.
And what it is is we see this underlying theme here between the NAFTA negotiations as to who's going to go against America and the Trump Patriots and who's going to be standing with the globalists once they try to do this coup.
And essentially in some of these articles, Canada came out and said they felt betrayed by Mexico in Mexico being willing to work with Trump and his administration and Mexico was basically like, well, Canada just seems out.
For itself and we want to make sure we're on the best negotiating and we can be because both sides don't know what's going to happen here.
They don't know how a coup is going to play out.
And in fact, the deep state doesn't even know how a coup would play out either.
So everyone's just trying to position themselves, make alliances.
And there's a lot of chatter going on right now in the intelligence community about this coup, about also Islamic terror cells being activated inside the U.S. and Canada, which raises huge red flags again for talk of a potential false flag terror attack that could happen around the midterms or sometime after.
Oh, there's no doubt they're going to attack the media and say I'm behind it, but they're not running thousands of articles saying I'm calling for violence and lying when I'm not saying it and saying I'm saying get battle rivals ready for the media when I haven't said that.
They're not doing that for nothing.
They are gearing up for false flags.
But the problem is they're real people are trying to stab Congressman, shoot Congressman, stab congressional candidates, burn down Republican facilities.
Just today, death threats everywhere. I mean, it is getting redunculus bonkers crazy right now.
So I don't see how this violent blue wave is going to be blamed on Republicans.
Well, another important thing to note here, Alex, the another thing that points to the fact that there's a coup possible, or there's some kind of emergency that's going to happen possible.
Is that President Trump actually made a presidential proclamation on August 31 declaring this month, September 2018, National Preparedness Month, and essentially in his presidential proclamation, which you can pull up on
House dot gov. He's basically warning people to take measures and actions to get prepared for the inevitable or the unpredicted disasters and things that could happen in our nation.
And yes, he does mention, you know, disasters in the wake, an example with hurricanes and other things like that.
He's also mentioning just overall being prepared for the unknown, whether it's economic, whether it's anything. And this is a very important thing.
He initiated this proclamation on August 31. And this is all in this timeline when they fully went forward with censoring and banning Alex Jones and info wars on August 4 and continuing on throughout this.
And now they're purging everybody else. They're getting the voice, the voices silenced. They don't want live feeds to counter their narrative ahead of the big false flag. Millie, we were great job. We'll talk to you soon.
Thank you, Alex. Thank you. Okay, now we have a bunch of big guests coming up as well. Eric Bowling, formerly a Fox News. I once joked that I wanted to have a bear knuckles boxing match with him.
He didn't beat me up. It was a joke. I'm actually scared now. I ran into him at Trump Tower and I grew 90% of what he has to say. And he disagrees with me on a lot of things, or at least what the media has said about straw man.
He's going to be in here all next hour. Roger Stone coming up. We got Graham Ledger of One American News about the censorship. How is Trump going to fight back? What's the latest in DC on executive orders?
They are imminent. And I've got that from White House sources, campaign sources, and some of the, let's just say community outreach groups that Trump is involved with.
I think people can probably guess what I'm talking about. It would have been done weeks ago, but he's being sabotaged as they now admit.
So that's coming up with Graham Ledger in the next segment. First off, everybody needs to go to infowarstore.com and support the broadcast. Obviously, that's clear.
We're under attack. We're trying to expand the Democratic Party's coming after me. Hillary's trying to shut me down. They got all these fake lawsuits.
We're beating a lot of these, but it's going to take a lot of money. So if you want them to win, don't get the products, but you are doing it.
You are doing it. So we have amazing specials right now in X2 that is the final run. It's like a no longer secure it from this big oil company where they get it at 12,000 feet.
The pure iodine. Nobody else has it. Maybe we'll get it again with another company. The contract's over. I can't get a better deal. They keep raising prices.
We're working on some other suppliers, but you know, you got to go through a bunch of stuff and it's an amazing product. Nobody else has got X2.
infowarslive.com, infowarstore.com, or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. So again, if you financially support us and get great products, we are basically unstoppable. We've got on our side.
Go get some great Mollon LaBear, infowars.com, or reelect 45 shirts and sign up for auto ship initial 10% on things like Wicked America Coffee that's so good or stuff like this. You're going to want to order again, cancel anytime for free, additional 5% off on everything with Patriot points.
So you got a little account there, infowarsstore.com, standing as the globalist. You're supporting us. You're our sponsors. You're making it all possible. So thank you all. But get your X2. This is the last run.
This is the last run.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away. Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful. FakeTV.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
It's a water filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home. Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current run down systems, it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z Shield.
Toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brushfires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
To support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield, infowarslife.com.
The Mary Story is like the Clinton body count story. That's according to website infowars.
Dr. Martin Luther King has been shot to death in Memphis, Tennessee.
J.F.K. was shot from the back and the front.
It was almost as if it were a planned explosion. It just panicked.
It took the babies out of the incubators and left the children to die on the cold floor.
I think this is a national security imperative. We have clear things that we do not understand how they work, operating in areas that we can't control.
U.S.A.
Is this global governance at last? Is it one world the central bank has been charged?
Israel claims the attack was accidental. Some former U.S. naval officers say it was on purpose.
It is for today's action as part of a continuing cover-up.
Russian intelligence compiled a dossier on Mr. Trump during visits to Moscow.
Russian stuff.
Denied everything. He called it all fake news.
And he accused CNN of being fake news.
This is a national emergency.
If they killed Trump or removed Trump, it will cause a massive civil war in this country.
This is a female high-level emergency.
You are at war with Russia.
Are you aware that Mr. Stone also stated publicly that he was in direct communication with Julian Assange and WikiLeaks?
The White House and the President are citing simple wars.
They can shut us down, you're next.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
Rock, polls and chess.
Awaiting till that judgement day comes.
Yeah.
Eric Boling, formerly of Fox News, one of the people they went and got rid of was I didn't like him.
Now he's CRTV. He was just up in Dallas with Linn Beck. Now he's going to be here.
He's a really charming guy in person.
And one time he said some smartass stuff and I said, I'll get in the boxing ring with you.
And then I met him. He's built like a boxer.
I'm like, okay, well, I still kick his ass. I'm joking.
He's in there in the control room. He says he's going to beat me up on air.
No, I'm joking. That's coming up full hour with him next hour.
And he's interviewing me for his CRTV show.
So a pre-game in the Alex Jones interview coming up today before you haters say anything about it.
Big hair, don't care.
He does have a lot of hair. I don't. I'm kind of jealous.
But seriously, it's going to be somewhat of a debate too because they misrepresent what I've said about 9-11,
Sandy Hook, and I don't want to spend all day on that with him.
But I tell people, go after me. That's what I like.
No one will come on the show and debate me or argue about stuff.
And I'm sick of it. But Eric Bowling will, you know, he lost his son recently.
I couldn't imagine that. I've got a 16-year-old son, but he's a real trooper.
And the stuff they got rid of him for is just more crap.
It's like this Serena Williams business.
But let's go to our next guest. We only got him for one segment.
And that's Graham Ledger. I've been on his show on One American News Network, oann.com.
I'm talking about censorship. I wanted to get his take, because I know he and Jack Mesobic and others
have really, really, really, really got their ear to the ground.
So he's coming up. Trump executive action on social media censorship being blocked by insiders.
Manafort reportedly pursuing plea deal. We're going to get into that.
Fahrenheit 2018. Amazon begins banning controversial books.
It's a men's self-help book.
Strangely enough, I read one of these guys' books, because I never read a men's self-help book.
But I got to know Neil Strauss, because we're going to write a book together.
They've been trying to censor the real secret history of the world and the war for the future
that is being done right now. I should add that it'll make him go crazy at CNN.
How dare I be able to publish a book.
But I've read one of his other books, Pretty Milk Toe Stuff.
Pretty Milk Toe Stuff, how a lot of women won't respect you if you don't respect yourself.
And it's not even about being assertive or acting like you're rebel without a cause or something.
You just have to actually be confident, not act like you're confident.
Well, they banned that because you can't have men help themselves, because men are bad.
Crazy. Now, let me do this here, because I've got a bunch of clips I haven't gotten to.
Obviously, I've got tons of news, and I should be taking calls, but so much is going on.
I want to get into the violence that's taking place, because I've experienced it.
And you've seen Fox News hosts have tea and coffee thrown on them, or people screaming at them,
or Candace Owens, people trying to attack her, calling her a white supremacist,
a bunch of soy boy, skinny pants, liberals in the face of a black lady saying she's a white supremacist.
It is insane. And that latest video we showed you yesterday of these Hispanic ladies come over,
screaming, you're a monkey, white people are bad.
I hate the KKK. I hate that lady. She's brown KKK.
The media edited her calling me a monkey saying my mother's married to her brother,
and then just said, Jones attacked this poor veteran, and they edited the tape.
And guess what? Facebook officially pushed that out in partnership with
Snapchat's media production company.
So 10 million people last time I checked had been forced fed that I'm bullying a Hispanic lady,
and they cut out, you're a monkey, F your mother, all this stuff.
Your mother's an inbred piece of crap, whites are subhuman trash.
I mean, you heard what the New York Times board member said.
Whites are goblin creatures that live in holes.
I can't wait till they're all dead. I hate white men more than anything.
I love being mean to white men. I love bullying white men.
Oh, the New York Times says that's wonderful. She's an Asian woman.
She's downtrodden. Asians are just the top nine slots based on race in the U.S. for wealth.
Then white people are after that.
And then Hispanics and then black folks, the richest guy in the world.
Lisa Bezos got in there was Carlos Slim, you know, from Mexico, but it's just a load of manure.
Remember Bernie Sanders? White people do not know what it's like to be poor.
I swindle colleges that have three $1 million houses and drive $122,000 outings.
But that's okay because I have bozo hair.
You have bozo hair, you are then allowed to say stupid things. I am in charge now.
And we could joke about that, but the Democrats are so, so, so very, very close to bringing in socialism.
From Florida to New York to California, they're nominating communist.
Remember Hugo Chavez? Oh, I'm not a communist. I'm a democratic socialist. I'm a socialist. I'm a socialist communist.
I'm a commie. I was always a commie.
Can we pull up Cortez? I mean, no matter what video or photo she's in, she looks like she is being electrocuted.
But you can't say that or they'll ban you on Twitter because that's bullying a protected group like that CNN reporter, Oliver Darcy,
who runs around everywhere and hundreds of articles saying ban me, lying about me, calling me all these names.
I see him and I go, dude, you're a jerk, man. You're anti-American. You're like the Hitler Youth burning books.
Who says you're banned. You don't call someone a Nazi. Wow. The left has Nazi diarrhea of the mouth.
That's all they do is call people Nazis. Of course, they're funded and run by a Nazi collaborating dirtbag named George Soros.
Can we pull up the photo you pulled up last week?
Maybe it was Monday of Soros with Junker, the richest Nazi family was his grandfather. His dad was in the SS and he got the Nazi wealth.
The Junkers are royal. They used to be like the king's oppression, which is the most important area of Germany.
So you've got German royalty. Remember the Junker bombers, the Junker munitions with the Nazi collaborator and it looks like they're going on a date.
Now there's the photo. For radio listeners, you've got to see this. I mean, what do you guys search to find that? Just Soros and Junker.
You see, I already digress. I didn't get to the tepid stabbings and the tepid shooting attacks and the fire bombings of Wyoming GOP offices and people saying kill Trump and his family and rape his son.
I mean, my God, you can't even keep track of this.
Meanwhile, you know how they ban the show all over the place because we're saying the truth. They're not what they claim. But think about Facebook.
And the productions they push of Jones bullied three innocent Hispanic Native Americans. Look at him. He attacked them because they were Hispanic.
And the tape doesn't have them going. Your mother's a pig. Your mother's a white scum filth. Your mother. Your mother married her brother, you white monkey. Go back to Europe, monkey.
Oh, but it's just circling. What? And they play sad music. No one knows why he attacked the women. No one knows. That's how stupid Mark Zuckerberg thinks you are. What an enemy of this country.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at InfowarsStore.com.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, Infowars Life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and omega-3s found in our high quality ultra pure krill oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and omega-3s, Ultimate Krill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what krill oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil.
Now available at InfowarsStore.com.
Infowars Life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfowarsLife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Once something the globalists are targeting, visit Infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Coming to you live from Austin, Texas.
We're going to look at Trump executive action on social media censorship being held up and blocked by insiders. We have that from inside the White House.
DOJ is set to investigate anti-conservative bias among social media giants. That came out last night. We've got more on that coming up as well. We do have Eric Bowling who is here in the Infowars Studios.
He'll be in studio coming up for the next hour. We've got a lot to cover there as well. Roger Stone coming up as well.
But I want to go to a few of these clips. Like I mentioned, Wyoming GOP offices set on fire less than two days after opening. Police say it was intentional.
And that ties into Secret Service wants to talk with actress Carol Cook over assassination comment.
CNN refuses to report on attempted stabbing attack on Republican candidate by Democrat screaming F Trump over and over again. And the person running for Congress had to fight him off with a yard sign. The police actually witnessed this.
But the media is not reporting on it. The establishment media. And you look at these guys, they always look like they escaped from mental institutions.
They're like, why are liberals when you go to one of their rallies so ugly and so crazy looking? I mean, I'm sorry. Liberals are low IQ and stupid and ugly and on average.
And or they're a uppercast that kind of feeds on the idiots below them. And they've got studies out where they're what? There's a bunch of different studies show different numbers, but they're all similar.
Nine times more likely to steal. Nine times more likely to virtue signal and not give to charity. But they'll tell you nine times more often that they're giving money to people.
They're children. They're mentally ill, in my view. So there you go.
F Trump Farzad Fazili attempts to stab GOP House candidate. So isn't that just precious? Scalise warned some on the left are inciting violence.
You have big putrid blue wave of violence and intimidation. It's getting crazy. And we've got plans for mass shootings and the police trying to find who's threatening to mass shoot at the Trump Tower.
And at the Trump Hotel there in DC, it's getting crazier and crazier. And what are they going to do with 55 days out? What are they going to do as all of this begins to unfold?
How bad is it going to get DC police respond to mass shooting threat at event in Trump Hotel? I mean, who are these people?
Threats of rape and strangling forced DC McAllister into hiding after anti-abortion tweet. People threatened to come to her house and kill her and rape her.
Why? Because their whole reality is running her life. The left are control freaks.
I remember when I was moving out of the house when I was 18 and my mom had bought some Oreo rugs and I've been out of high school about two months. I had a job and I was going to college and I was sitting there telling my mom, I don't like these rugs and I don't like the food you've been getting.
She looked at my dad, she goes, David, get him an apartment now. Get his ass out of here. My mom's real nice, but it was that kick me out of the nest thing. She was also mad because I was bringing my girlfriends into the house and one of them I think hit on my dad in front of her.
I forgot that part. I forgot Cindy. Cindy hit on my dad. She was quite a girl. Anyways, yeah, that was the real reason. That was about a day before. But then I'm telling my mom about the rugs and how she's getting the wrong couches because they moved to a new house.
And I was bitching and I had the smallest bedroom because they were building another house. It was a smaller house. They were renting and she just said, you know, get out. And so that's how the left is, is they want to run everybody's life because they don't know how to do anything.
They're all obsessed with those of us that have lives and are doing things and have children and they want to run our lives. They're like arrested development idiots. And so that's what it comes down to.
This way to get thrown out of your house, have your girlfriend hit on your dad in front of your mom. Okay, anyways, let's continue with this clip.
Castro Valley man accused of switchblade assault on GOP congressional candidate from KPIX 5 of CBS here in San Francisco.
I'll know about the political war of words, but here in the East Bay, it got physical.
He would have stabbed me. I mean, he had it out saying, I'm going to kill you, MF, or I'm going to kill you. And he was, you could see his thumb trying to get the knife out.
Republican Rudy Peters is running for Congress. Over the weekend, he says he was threatened and attacked at his Republican booth at a fall festival in Castro Valley. He says it first started with verbal threats.
He picks up the coffee cup to rear back to throw it at us. And I jump around the table. He throws the coffee cup and misses us. It hits the ground and breaks.
So I come out and grab him and wrestle him and throw him down to the ground.
He says that's when 35 year old Farzad Pazelli of Castro Valley pulled out a knife.
He's screaming, I'll kill you, MF, or I'll kill you. I'll kill you. And he's kind of circling me trying to get the knife out.
Farzad Pazelli are the facts that are quite serious, but this defendant also has a prior conviction for a 242.
Pazelli made his first court appearance today in custody for possession of a switchblade and threatened to commit great bodily injury or death. But Pazelli's mother and attorneys say he is the victim.
The client at this point was afraid for his life, afraid for his health and safety. And I believe that these ledges he pulls out a folded knife. Knife was never opened.
Mr. Peters got physical first. Pazelli's mother was at the festival at a Democratic booth. She says she didn't see what happened, but she says she talked to her son before he was arrested.
And he said that Mr. Peters had taken him by the shoulders and just shoved him down to the ground, and there was blood on him and blood on his shirt.
Peters says when Pazelli took out a knife, he shielded himself by reaching for one of his election signs for protection. He says he never worried about his safety.
Okay, that's good. So the Seahawks says, or Grendel's mother says that he was sweet. Meanwhile, do you know who the Republicans are running against? Swallowwell. Swallowswell is one of the biggest con artists in Congress.
One of the slimyest little dirtbags. He went on Tucker Carlson, remember? And when Tucker said that Russia thing was fake, he said you are a Putin agent.
Now you talk about swallowing lies. Swallowswell is an amazing individual. Speaking of that, an amazing individual who really is amazing.
Congressman Scalise, some of the left are inciting violence. Yes, the sky is blue. Let's play that clip.
And yet you've got some people on the left that just want to, this idea of resist and ignore the fact that he's president and they want to try to interrupt the ability for Congress to do its job.
And then of course, you've gotten to where their death threats and literal attacks on lives and there's no place for it in our politics.
And frankly, what I want to see is the left stand up against this. We were goaded into some of this stuff when Barack Obama was president.
And we stood up against that kind of violence and we didn't resort to it. They are, and in fact some on the left are inciting that kind of violence.
And frankly, they ought to be called out on it.
And they ought to be arrested for it. I mean, this is out of control the way they lie about it. By the way, they attack everybody. It's crazy.
Now that said, Eric Bolin coming up of CRTV and we're going to be covering a ton of news and it should be a heated discussion, a friendly discussion.
Though he said he's going to beat me up on air. I'm joking. He's got the new book out, The Swamp.
All I'm asking listeners to do is this.
Yes, we have record listeners right now since we're totally banned on AM and FM and TV and info wars.com.
But the globalists think it's a dead cat bounce.
They think that after you kind of forget about this and move on, not letting us be on social media and stuff will shut us down.
The problem is we were already 90% banned like other conservatives.
So it already happened and they think we're idiots because Congress doesn't understand what's happening.
So we'll get more into Trump executive action on social media censorship and blocked by insiders.
DOJ said to investigate anti-conservative bias amongst social media giants.
Some actions being taken, people now know it's a problem. We forced this issue out there. One reason I was banned.
But it is a fight. And so that's why spreading the word about local stations you're on.
And even if you're listening on a local station, an info wars is hard to promote on Twitter or Facebook.
You can promote that local stations video feed or audio feed and say, hey, tune in to this lineup at two o'clock for verboten info.
Just follow the link. And then their AI computers look for the name Alex Jones.
They won't see that.
And we've seen folks on Twitter even only just have a few hundred followers that are tweeting out local radio stations.
We're on saying, hey, here is some really interesting information.
Oh, here's some wonderful pro-democrat info. The computers then see that and push it.
So on Twitter and Google say, oh, here's some fabulous blue wave info.
Thank God Trump's about to be gone. And then you just send the link to the local TV radio station.
Because it's AI watching and scanning all that.
Don't forget, I didn't plug this hour. X2, the deeper of the crystal source iodine, the very best out there.
Did I plug this hour? It's amazing. 25% off, even though we can't get it anymore.
Hopefully we will down the rub. This is the last run. The contract's broken.
Or survival show. It's amazing. Discover the good halogen versus the bad halogen. Discover why it's got 6,000 plus positive reviews, 98% review rate.
And get it while you still can.
infowarslife.com.
infowarslife.com. And download the Android app. It hasn't been banned yet.
Travis in Florida.
Hey Alex, how you doing?
You know, I'm really, the country's in deep trouble, but at least for fighting back, I'm getting persecuted hard.
But, you know, it's good to be number two under attack. I'm the president. I'm in good company.
And so I, my bones feel good. I feel close to my ancestors. I feel like I'm delivering.
You're definitely, you're definitely right. There was the Patriot, though.
I guess it is true. Truth is threes in the empire of lies.
I want to thank you personally. I have Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
Anyone who knows, like, a hypothyroidism condition.
I currently, I mean, the product, like in its name.
brain force x2. Plenium. The micro-DX, vitamin, mineral, fission, prostrate, the coffee, the chocolate, mushroom blend. Supermal vitality, alpha male.
Let me tell you, it's given me my life back.
Just taking the thyroid medicine alone is just not enough. Just having these products has made my life just back to normal.
I'm working harder. I'm harder. I feel like I'm just unbelievable. Your products are amazing.
They are the highest quality you're going to get out there. And that's what we will love them.
Thank you for the support. God bless you. InfowarsStore.com. Take care, Travis.
Extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfowarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
All right. Another one of the political prisoners of the gulag of the mind, Eric Bowling, is going to be in studio with us.
He's now with CRTV and all the great work they're doing over there, ericbowling.com.
He's going to be in studio with us coming up for the rest of the hour.
And we're going to cover the waterfront about where he thinks political correctness is going, the censorship, what should be done to big tech.
There's so much to get into. But EU army to increase ranks seven fold.
I remember 10 years ago saying there's a secret plan for an EU army because it had actually come out in documents.
It actually got in documents from someone inside Bilderberg.
They were discussing an EU army to stop countries from having their own borders.
And they were going to flood Europe with North Africans and Islamists out of the Middle East.
It's all true. It all happened. Of course, it was real documents we got.
Then a guy who worked at the National Archives brought me secret Bilderberg documents the next year confirming it all.
We published them all. I did get death threats.
So that's why they're so scared.
And again, I don't want to say it's a Nazi conspiracy because these were just criminals that were the Nazis.
And so they're criminals now.
But Junker, when you look at the unelected head of the EU, that England didn't vote to enter, but they're in the UK.
He is the grandson. His father was a top Nazi. His grandfather was the richest guy in Germany.
Royalty, the Junker family.
And so I just go back to this.
Literal Nazis left us walk up to me and they go Nazi, Nazi, hate speech, ban you. You're Nazi, you're Nazi.
And then you have an unelected EU that was actually a Hitler plan, the EU.
Look it up. That's even BBC.
Type it into search engine. EU was Nazi plan.
And then you learn about all this and it's just like, who could make this stuff up?
I mean, when Junker's dad was a top Nazi, Soros was helping round up Jews.
But it's like, well, he gets awards because he did that.
You're a Nazi because your grandfather's both almost died five of the Nazis, Alex.
He's good. That's the upside down land.
But this is why they're so mad at Trump, the optimism, the success, the economy coming back.
We'll be back after this promo with Mr. Bowling in studio. Stay with us.
Nobody said it was going to be easy for us, but we will never be stopped.
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created.
Record low unemployment and a record high stock market.
The Trump economy is red hot.
Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.
They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.
Now Kim Jong-un says President Trump will pay dearly for those words.
Getting a good picture of everybody so we have a nice answer.
Beautiful.
North Korea now committing to complete denuclearization.
I mean, it's truly remarkable what he's doing.
He has done more than any president in recent history, certainly in the last half century.
He's not a politician. He's one of us.
Never, ever, ever give up.
Never stop fighting for what you believe in and for the people who care about you.
Carry yourself with dignity and pride.
Relish the opportunity to be an outsider.
Embrace that label because it's the outsiders who change the world
and who make a real and lasting difference.
Treat the word impossible as nothing more than motivation.
Three American hostages are back home.
I am an American host.
Three American hostages are back home.
I am asking all citizens to embrace this renewal of the American spirit.
Seize this moment, believe in yourselves, believe in your future,
and believe once more in America.
I will fight for you with every...
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles.
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals
and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We've got it.
The first finger coming down.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Well, Eric Bowling is here in studio for our bare knuckles match.
He already beat me up during the break, so he wins.
Now, but seriously, censored, demonized for no reason,
like everybody else that's effective, removed from the airwaves.
We'll talk about what it's like to be out of Fox,
but more importantly, launching something truly free on CRTV
with a politically incorrect name, America.
So I'm all behind CRTV and it's great success and all the great people that are over there from Mr. Levin to, of course, Michelle Malcolm Crowder.
Everybody really exciting what's going on at CRTV and also EricBowling.com,
because I just want to win the culture wars.
I'm not in competition with you guys.
So it's good to have you here.
Thank you, Alex.
Thank you very much.
We ran into each other.
At Trump Hotel.
Correct.
I was leaving.
You were coming back.
I think you were coming back from your little tiff with Marco Rubio if I'm not mistaken.
And I caught you at the bottom of the stairs and I said, hey, Alex Jones, let's talk a little bit.
I refresh your memory that about five years ago, you and I had a Twitter war.
I think we were going to fight on the corner and I said, I'll tell you what, Jones,
I'll meet you on the corner of Park and Lex at four o'clock today.
And you're like, okay, I'll be there.
There's no corner of Park and Lex.
I just want to point that out.
Anyway, make a long story short.
We talked and I said, look, there are a lot of things about you and your theories that I despise.
I can't stand them.
However, we need to have a discussion as to whether or not all is pulling you from the media has gone too far or not.
Maybe it hasn't.
Maybe it hasn't.
Let's have discussion.
And then you said, let's go on each other's show.
And I agreed that we would have a co-interview that I come on your show.
We talk together, co-interview, and you would come on mine and we do the same.
And here we are.
So I came to Austin Tech.
Absolutely.
And I'm glad you want to do that because most people won't come on.
They want to just say, oh, you're too evil to go on.
Well, Charlie Manson did hundreds of interviews.
Everybody interviewed from Mike Wallace to Barbara Walters.
How am I supposedly so evil people can't come on the show because here's the thing.
You say some of the things I say are despicable.
A few things I've said turn out to be wrong and I'll admit my mistakes.
But most of what you brought up when we talked on record and off record in D.C. last week are straw men.
It's misrepresentation.
Just like they say, Trump hates all Mexicans.
No, he said a lot of criminals are coming across the border, rapists and murderers.
He didn't say they were all rapists and murderers.
So again, it's misrepresentations of what they do.
Absolutely true on the Trump argument, but not true on your argument.
I've heard you, Alice.
In fact, the reason why we almost got in that fight or that Twitter fight way back when
was when you were talking about the inside job that 9-11 was.
And I will tell you, I watched the second plane fly into the building.
I lost 16 very close friends in that World Trade Center.
There is no way in the world that I think my government could be part of a conspiracy
that would kill 3,000 Americans, innocent Americans.
It wasn't a wartime.
It wasn't on the battlefield.
These were innocent Americans going to work.
Some of my closest friends died.
And that really bothered me.
But I want to be clear.
I still don't buy this fact that the government looked the other way.
I'm not saying just like there's rogue groups in the White House and rogue groups in the CIA
fighting America and that have been caught working with ISIS in Al Qaeda.
And Trump says Obama and Hillary founded ISIS.
That's true.
John McCain was involved in that.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm not saying because I've been in New York and people say, how dare you say firefighters
blow up the towers.
I never said that.
I agree with Alex Jones that John McCain was there and did meet with some of the leaders
of what would soon become ISIS.
I agree with you.
But explain to me what proof in the world that you have that our government had somehow
information that there was going to be two planes flown into our World Trade Center.
You don't have any else.
I mean, I want to get into the bigger world and where we agree on things, but I'm happy
to debate this.
And it would take hours to actually get into all the details.
Just give me one piece as Trump would say, give me one shred of evidence.
Let me let me get into that.
But what I'm getting at here is I'm not saying the government did it.
I'm not saying I'm not saying they look the other way.
The 28 I've had Senator Paul on.
I've had Congressman Jones on.
They've read the 28 pages and it says it says there was a norad stand down ordered and more
than 20 FBI agents went public and said they were ordered to not stop.
I believe radical Islam exists.
The conspiracy.
I believe radical Islam exists.
So do I.
I'm saying they attacked us.
I'm saying they had been using that argument to make a conspiracy theory that has no lace.
Here's what the 28 pages does say that the United States did not go after what they what
they believed or it turned out to be a link to Saudi Arabia of the of the bombing of the
of the terror attack.
It doesn't say that the government looked the other way.
It said they didn't follow up on what involvement of the Saudi.
Well, here we are 17 years and one day later.
What about building seven?
I was there.
I'll tell you exactly what happened.
I'll tell you exactly what happened building seven.
So when they call the day Tuesday was a Tuesday.
They shut down lower Manhattan from Canal Street down.
You could not get there except for military.
I happen to be an oil trader at the time.
Oil was spiking is going through the roof and in in the US government was very fearful
of an oil price going to five six seven hundred dollars per barrel.
So they brought us in to the oil trading center of the world, which is one block from the
World Trade Center.
It's the World Financial Center.
I'm telling you, Alex, every single day for the next four months when no one else was
in lower Manhattan, we were locked inside a building and I can't tell you how many times
there was an anthrax scare or the ground was unstable.
Remember that whole area was built on landfill.
No, I'm not saying that.
Listen, here's the deal.
Take a study of hard concrete.
There are people iron built on hard concrete and say, well, that applies to a land.
Sure.
There are people that say that I say no planes flew in.
I get blamed for every conspiracy theory that some crazy person made up.
I didn't say I said, I do not agree with you that the US government, someone inside the
government had knowledge of the terror attack prior to the attack.
Oh, really?
All over Twitter yesterday, mainline leftist sites celebrated and said America deserved
it.
Reality winner had a top secret security clearance and was helping ISIS.
There are so many.
The average professor at UT down the street loves 9 11 and says America deserved it.
There were elements in our government ally with radicalism that helped them carry out
the attack.
You can argue whether or not America deserved or not.
I don't think America deserved it.
I'm saying the left is cheerleading.
It wasn't your theory.
Alice, your theory was not only did America not deserve it, but the United States government
knew about the attack prior to the attack and decided to stand down a very different
theory.
Well, I know this.
The official story does not add up.
Fox, Sandy Hook.
Sure.
And there's the next thing.
9 11 was a big part of what I covered.
I did make four films on it.
I did cover it thousands of times.
Sandy Hook, the general public didn't buy it.
There were some anomalies.
I played both sides.
The media edits clips and then continues to say, Jones, stop saying nobody died.
Stop doxing families.
Never dox families.
It's all edited like Megan Kelly before she left Fox News.
We played this tape.
She took me talking about Hillary funding.
Isis and Al Qaeda responsible for killing kids played a clip of that and said that I said
it was a pizza place.
This is the level of fraud going on.
I'm not speaking for Megan Kelly.
No, Megan Kelly, but I will tell you, I know you've said that this was a quote unquote Alex
Jones false flag operation.
What that means is it didn't really happen the way it's being portrayed.
I will give you the next step of evidence.
I'm waiting for your shred of evidence.
I'll give you my evidence.
Why I think it did happen.
I tragically lost my son a year ago in three days.
A year three days ago was a year.
During that year, I had to get out of the limelight.
I had to get away from New York and I moved to a town called Roxbury, Connecticut, which
is about three miles from Newtown, Connecticut.
I was in such a funk.
I needed to see a therapist.
I think Sandy Hook happened.
Let's get that clear.
The therapist that I was sent to was the same therapist who talked to dozens of parents in
the Sandy Hook community, and I will tell you, that community is distraught over what
happened so many years ago.
They are still reeling from that.
No, I believe you.
But let me say this just once on record.
I've literally barely covered Sandy Hook and the media keeps saying that I'm good.
Can we do this?
Can we?
Alex Jones and Eric Bowling agree that 9 11.
No one looked the other way.
Terrorists actually attacked the World Trade Center on their own without the help of the
US government.
Yes, in fact, a crazy lunatic walked into an elementary school and killed a bunch of
kids in Newtown, Connecticut.
Can we agree on that?
I know mass shootings happened and he was on Prozac, got the gun illegally.
No, no, no.
I think Newtown happened.
But because the lies about babies and incubators that get us in the first Iraq war, which was
admittedly a PR firm, people have questions because they've been lied to.
People have questions.
So many times.
The US government looked the other way or not.
Oh, I think elements of the US government did look the other way.
Evidence.
When we come back, I'll be very, very happy to give you a lot of evidence.
Excellent.
Do you really think two of the hijackers' passports got found in the rubble?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I watched that rubble burn for six months.
I have no idea.
But I know that there's, I would never live in America where our government would look
the other way and let 3,000 people die innocently.
Well, I don't think the general public or the people that work, say, at the average FBI
agent or the postman.
But when we come back, we're going to talk about Building 7 because, Yvette, I heard them
on CBS Radio Say, they're going to control Demo Building 7.
And then I have the news clips.
If you want me to plan where they said they'd blow it up, we'll be back.
David Hall, Diamond Gussett Teen Company.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Make TV.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids
get their EPA and DHA, too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child, built from the ground up to
support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultra purified krill oil, and wild salmon fish oil
with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive,
and brain health while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's
brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly
refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
This is a great product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the Real Red Pill, will quickly become one of our fellow
Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Redi extract and Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfowarsStore.com.
All right, I don't want to spend all our time on 9-11.
It's not that I'm running away from it.
It's that the media represents what I say about it.
I believe Islamic terror and radical Islam is one of the number one threats on the planet,
probably number one.
I know that there are criminals in our government like Brennan who reportedly converted to Wahhabism.
Obama helped launch the Arab Spring to overthrow our allies in Egypt.
You name it.
And I think that elements let this happen, like PNAC, wrote to let there be an attack
to end up taking our liberties away.
And I've got FBI was warned about flight schools.
That's CBS News.
FBI, New Al Qaeda, Pilot for Training in the U.S. ordered to stand down.
ABC News.
State Department lapses, aided 9-11 hijackers.
Then they had the airlift of evil flying tens of thousands of Al Qaeda fighters out.
Our military was ordered to do it.
I don't blame our military.
They would say, oh, yeah, our military.
No, I love our military.
They were ordered to fly out and fly on the Pakistan.
So they were being protected, not by our main force, but by criminals within.
I saw articles even in The Guardian.
Senior FBI agents, it's like Al Qaeda has moles above us.
All I'm saying is there is a radical Islamic alliance with the left.
And there are people in the government working to protect Islam.
They got this imam that's connected to dozens of bombings.
After six months, he's being released from British prison next week.
You said some things that I'd agree with.
I believe radical Islam is the greatest threat to the United States, our freedom, maybe even the globe.
I'll agree with that.
Maybe the left's bigger, though.
Well, I think the left is a different type of threat.
And it's a longer term threat where radical Islam could kill a lot of people real fast.
In the left, it's going to take a while for them to take over and take away our liberties and freedoms.
And that would feel like being killed, but maybe not actually kill us.
But I think we can deal with a straight on attack like radical Islam.
It's the left creeping around.
I don't like them either.
I'm on board with that.
I'm not going to play the whole video.
It's on YouTube.
Let's put it up on screen for TV viewers.
It's Kate Stanley, BBC.
I drove to get a pizza that day.
I've been on air like 10 hours.
It's four o'clock.
I'm getting a pizza.
I'm eating it in the car like a pig.
I'm in great shape like you.
And they're announcing on, this is BBC, but on CBS News, building seven Solomon brothers,
they're going to have a control demolition to say buildings around it.
They're putting charges in now.
They're going to blow it up.
I go and report it the next day they go, Jones is crazy.
He says that they, I saw it.
Well, this is video on screen of them saying building seven has already fallen.
Have you seen that video?
No.
And it's right behind her.
I can't hear.
They went to play for you?
What?
I'd like to hear her say it's already fallen.
And by the way, Alex, anyone could throw a video, a picture behind it, a news press.
That could be.
Well, she's saying building seven has fallen.
They put the story out beforehand.
So I'll tell you what I'll do.
I will take this video of us here.
Building seven was still there.
I know what she's saying.
It's gone.
It's already falling.
Well, it is falling.
Here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to take this live footage in the next day.
And I'm going to put all the local news clips of them saying building seven is being blown up.
The police countdown.
I will tell you this.
Let me let me just do this for you.
I was down there.
I was down there.
One of the only people that weren't military in that area, there may be a handful of us,
maybe two, three hundred people max trading oil because we had to stabilize the price of
oil during that time.
That whole area was unstable.
They were worried about more than just building seven.
They were worried about some of the satellite buildings to the world.
There are like four or five five story world's World Trade Center buildings that were around.
They were worried about those falling the Brooks Brothers building.
They were concerned that was going to go down too.
There was mass fear, confusion going on.
That is all landscape.
You're saying it's a false report.
No, it's not a false report.
I'm telling you, I don't think that there was a conspiracy to blow up building seven for what reason?
To what end?
No, no.
I was saying, you're saying it was like a mistake like happens in reported.
I'm asking you, who blew up building seven?
All I know is we have the police who are not saying we're involved saying we've been told
they're blowing it up, get back.
There was a lot of talk about taking unstable buildings down.
Yeah, absolutely.
They were worried about buildings falling and hurting more people.
No question about that.
But that was what, the next day that building seven fell that came down?
No, it was four thirty eastern.
Okay.
Five thirty eastern.
Whatever time it was, they were concerned about many buildings.
Well, they did blow up a few more buildings the next few days.
Okay.
So, I'm saying you're right.
What's the theory here?
What are we trying to...
Man, why don't we...
Outraged about it.
Okay.
You're a smart guy.
I've been on TV a long time.
Do you remember 1990, what got us into the Iraq war?
I'm not saying Saddam's a good guy.
It was 1993, I think, wasn't it?
No, 1990.
Okay.
And 1991 was desert shield, desert storm.
But remember the woman testifying, I watched the Republican guard bash baby's brains out.
Okay.
I don't remember that, but okay.
And then it was all a PR firm.
It was all fake.
Remember the famous CNN footage?
We were on top CNN Center, Atlanta with a blow screen.
They're going, the Scott Mezzels are blowing up.
They're putting them...
Jacko's putting the mask on.
That was meant to be fake.
I'm not laughing.
I just...
No, I don't know that.
I don't...
We're going to...
I don't watch Info Wars, but maybe...
Listen, we're not fox news with 100 people and as slick as you.
But what I'm telling you is we'll later take...
I'm not foxes either.
And we'll take this and we're going to put all the clips in.
And then I'll send it to you and we'll see what you say.
Here's the thing.
I agree with you that...
Just to understand one thing, the whole area was on landfill.
And so I had an argument with Jesse Ventura about building 7 and he kept telling me,
steel melts at 1500 degrees.
Jet fuel only burns at 1000 or 1200 degrees.
It couldn't have done it.
And all those theories may be true over those actual scientific...
But you're saying it weakens the steel?
He did.
He did.
I'm telling you that the land underneath the whole World Trade Center footprint was landfill.
It was not...
In fact, weren't they saying that the buildings were already unstable?
They're all on landfill, Alex.
The whole area is landfill.
It's...
It's a swamp.
I mean, that's what that whole delta is.
It's just like Mississippi, Louisiana.
I think the island of Manhattan is on bedrock.
But there are areas of lower Manhattan that were built from their own cavity of their footprint,
of the building footprint.
And they put buildings up around it on landfill.
Very less...
I don't think you can apply the same science in a controlled experiment in Austin, Texas,
to a landfill, a building built on landfill.
Well, I've not heard the theory.
But I do know that lower Manhattan is like a delta kind of swamp area, like you're saying.
There's a lot of swamps, yeah.
That's one of them.
Why did they build DC on a swamp?
They didn't.
They just made...
Well, they built a capital building on a swamp, on a literal swamp.
On the inside cover of my book, you can see the capital being built in 1860 ballpark.
And it's a swamp.
It's a little...
And they never got around to draining it.
I like that.
Do you think Trump will be able to drain the swamp?
That's not a theory, either.
Yes, he's well on his way.
Oh, if you say the sky is blue on my broadcast, they'll say it didn't happen.
Well, listen, can I ask you a question?
Yes.
Let's talk about the...
What you're doing here.
Look, you have a beautiful operation, gorgeous studio.
You got a lot of fans, you got a lot of viewers, a lot of listeners.
But some of the things you talk about, you get people riled up.
Let's be...
You're riled up sometimes, right?
You get your blood pressure gets up, you're talking and you're getting people...
Like when the New York Times, a lot about WMDs and a million Iraqis did?
Sure.
Okay, whatever the story is, you get fired up.
That's your passion.
Yes.
I get it.
But is your fire and your passion spread through this microphone, sent to people who may not
be as, let's call it, in control...
We've got to go to break, but this is a classic liberal talking point.
No, I'm not liberal.
I just want to make sure people are being incited.
Jones is going to cause violence, therefore he has to take it off the air.
That was...
This is not a talking point.
It's the reason that they went through this iteration of Facebook, Twitter.
No, they did it because I'm popular and was getting 20 million viewers and listeners a
day and they panicked.
They did it because they panicked.
You might actually get me to agree with you on something.
I'm not the one firebombing Republican officers are trying to switch blade or shooting scolese.
It's just not true.
We'll be right back.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with
tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
It's an o-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine
disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original and most trusted name in gravity water filtration.
Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site
now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals.
Please consider a contribution. 25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500 would be a godsend to our
important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just
encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from infostore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are
and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Alright, Eric Bowling is here.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe.
Thanks for watching.
Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks for watching.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
When you use public wifi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords.
That's why I use private internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
Privateinternetaccess.com. It's time to protect your online privacy.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
This is your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
This is Bernie Sanders and there's a lot of corruption in this country. And if you want to hear about corruption, then you'll listen to Roger Stone on InfoWars.
Welcome back. I'm Roger Stone, sitting in for the great Alex Jones. That was a terrific lick by the Rolling Stones,
certainly a 1965 song called Carol written by the great Chuck Berry. Well, I'm pleased to hear that the Republican candidate for Congress opposing Congressman Eric Swalwell survived a knife attack on him, clearly designed to take him out.
But what we need to know now is whether the would-be killer had connections to Swalwell's campaign, what Swalwell knew about this attack, if anything.
The American people deserve to know. I certainly hope the FBI is on the case.
You know, the Senate Republicans are so ridiculously hapless that this past week an extraordinary opportunity slipped by.
John Dean, who the media lionizes as a whistleblower in Watergate, but who is in fact the man who planned, pushed, and then lied about the Watergate break-in was before the U.S. Senate and under oath.
This would have been a perfect opportunity to ask Mr. Dean about the discrepancies that were discovered by the Watergate special prosecutor between his Senate testimony and what he told individual Watergate prosecutor investigators and the FBI under oath.
There is a memo that you can find in my book, Nixon's Secrets, that outlines the fact that Dean lied. Additionally, we know that two White House figures, Tony Ulasowitz and Jack John Coffield, both of them decorated former New York police officers,
working for the Counsel's Office as investigators, say in both their oral histories and in their biographies, which are out of print, but can be found, that John Dean ordered them to case out the Watergate DNC complex six weeks before the break-in.
A golden opportunity was missed with John Dean, one of the great weasels of all time when he was under oath before the Senate to testify against the candidacy of Brett Kavanaugh.
Now, Mr. Dean has very carefully styled himself as a leftist, biting criticism of the George W. Bush administration, even more vicious criticism of the Trump administration.
This is to protect the big lie, the lie that Richard Nixon knew about or approved the Watergate break-in, the lie that Attorney General John Mitchell knew about and approved the Watergate break-in.
Mitchell went to his grave denying that because John Dean is the Watergate weasel. If you want to see 12 questions that John Dean won't answer, go to Watergateweasel.com. That's Watergateweasel.com. John Dean, not who you think he is.
President Donald Trump is about to make an extraordinarily important decision. You see, very recently, the White House consul, Don McGahn, learned that he was leaving the White House. He learned this in a presidential tweet.
There you have the 12 questions John Dean doesn't want to answer at Watergateweasel.com.
Mr. McGahn, in my opinion, has given President Donald Trump not only bad legal advice, but most certainly given him bad political advice.
It is Don McGahn, for example, who has consistently opposed the firing of Jeff Sessions. Jeff Sessions has turned a blind eye to the corruption of the Obama administration, turned a blind eye to the use of a fabricated dossier that was compiled
by a former British intelligence agent with the assistance of Russian intelligence and then used as the underlying legal rationale for the illegal and unconstitutional spying on the campaign of Donald Trump.
When Judge Andrew Napolitano of Fox News, my great friend and a friend of this program, exposed the fact that Donald Trump was under surveillance, as was his campaign, Judge Napolitano was widely ridiculed.
But it turns out that Andrew Napolitano was absolutely right.
In any event, now the president must decide who will replace Don McGahn. McGahn was originally recommended by Corey Lewandowski, the fired campaign manager from the Trump campaign, so it's not surprising that McGahn turns out to be a deep state
counseling, a man who is deeply embedded in the Washington Neocon two-party duopoly that's brought this country to its knees. And then we learned that Mr. McGahn voluntarily gave 30 hours of testimony to Robert Mueller.
30 hours. Think about that. That's longer than an entire day. What could Mr. McGahn have to say about the president that would be that extensive? And what about executive privilege? Never mind that.
What about attorney-client privilege? What was it that Mr. McGahn was in there talking about for 30 hours? No wonder this fellow has been canned. No wonder he read in a tweet that he was leaving.
Now, Washingtonians are saying that the president will replace McGahn with an attorney named Emmett Flood. By all of my research, Emmett Flood is a good man, a fighter, a man who puts his client, not the Washington culture, first.
So the selection of Emmett Flood, who's currently working as one of the councils for President Donald Trump, as the White House chief council, would be a step in the right direction.
You know, I think that the president has had a bad week because he allowed himself to be distracted by the anonymous New York Times editorial that was allegedly written by a senior member of his administration.
As I told Chris Cuomo the other night on CNN, I don't believe that anyone in the Trump administration wrote this particular memo. I think it is a fraud upon the people.
A McGuffin, a con job. After all, the New York Times is owned by the Mexican billionaire, Carlos Slim. Mr. Slim is the largest single donor to the Clinton Foundation. Additionally, Mr. Slim's company received a multi-billion-dollar cell phone contract from the Obama administration.
And we have multiple other examples of the New York Times printing things, claiming they are fact when they are nothing even close.
All the news that's fit to print, embellished with a left-wing ting, is what it should say in that little box in the corner.
You're on the Alex Jones show. I'm Roger Stone, and we have a lot more to break down for you, and I will be right back. But before I leave, let me please ask you to go to themfors.com store.
This is the lifeblood of what we do here. We cannot exist without your loyal patronage. We have some terrific specials. I'll be talking about them later.
But if you're not in the market for one of our great nutraceuticals, find the donate button. A contribution of $25, $50, or even $100 would be a godsend and help us beat back the globalist attempts to censor us into oblivion. I'll be right back.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement, and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-no-tax or go to my website, danpilla.com. That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils. While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too. Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development, this formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultrapurified krill oil, and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further. Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Field, InfowarsLife.com.
When paired with Carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfowarsLife Daily Digestive Pack today.
My fellow Americans, let me make this perfectly clear. You're listening to Roger Stone on Infowars.
And there you have the great Wilson Pickett, the wicket Wilson Pickett with a cover of a terrific Eddie Floyd song, a standard called Knock on Wood.
I'm Roger Stone, sitting in for the great Alex Jones. You know, I've been to the D.C. MAGA meetup that's held at the Trump Hotel.
You've never been to the Trump International in Washington. It's a great meeting place for like-minded patriots, and I myself have been to the meetup.
I have so many friends that go there. Among them, the journalists, Cassandra Fairbanks and, of course, Jack Pasoba.
So I was relieved this morning to learn that there was no bloodshed, even though a crazed leftist threatened to use a gun based on his tweet.
And as he put it, take home a number of bloodstained MAGA hats as trophies. This shows you the mental state of the left, the dementia of the far left.
Let's be clear. Those who advocate violence are wrong. We denounce white supremacists. We denounce neo-Nazis. We denounce the KKK.
We denounce racism in all of its forms. They are the ones who advocate violence. They are the ones who have threatened me and my family, even threatening to kill my sweet little dogs.
These people are monsters, and it's getting worse. I can no longer travel in polite society without armed security, and that's a sad factor.
I imagine that Alex Jones and others like Tucker Carlson, who I know for a fact has experienced the same kind of threats, have the same kind of thing going on in their personal lives.
Let's be clear. Those who are threatening violence are on the left, not the right.
So I was also very pleased to learn that Dr. Jerome Corsi did not testify for the grand jury last Friday after a seven-hour rubber hose session with the interrogators for Robert Mueller.
You see, Dr. Corsi, as I said earlier, is the individual who educated me in August of 2016 about the Podesta Brothers involvement in Eastern Europe.
Specifically, it was Corsi who pointed out an August 14 article by Peter Schweitzer, the author of Clinton Cash, published at Breitbart News that outlined the fact that Tony Podesta worked for the exact same Ukrainian political party as Paul Manafort.
Now, as you may know, Manafort has been indicted for lobbying on behalf of that political party without registering under FARRA, the Foreign Agents Registration Act.
The problem is that Tony Podesta didn't register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act either, but Tony Podesta has been granted immunity by Mr. Mueller.
Oh, Mueller says, well, we referred that matter to the Southern District of New York for prosecution. Folks, that's a dead letter.
The Southern District of New York will never prosecute Tony Podesta for anything. It's a public relations dodge, a fraud upon the public. So the bottom line is obvious.
If you're a Clinton-loving Democrat well-connected to Bill and Hillary and their criminal enterprise, you can break the law, but if you're poor, Paul Manafort, you're held to a very different standard.
Now, I'm told that Dr. Corsi will testify, according to ABC News, this coming Friday. Well, that's fine with me. I hope Dr. Corsi will simply tell the truth.
The truth is, I had no advanced knowledge of the acquisition or the publication of John Podesta's emails.
In fact, to infer that, you would have to take by now iconic tweet about John Podesta's time in the barrel and take out the word, the, because I said, the Podesta's apostrophe, yes, that's pure possessive, time in the barrel will come.
It says nothing about John's email. I never made a reference to John Podesta's emails. But I do understand why those who have read his emails would like to controversy to be over how they were obtained rather than what's in them, because there's evidence of criminality, dirty tricks, and worse.
So what better way to distract from the actual content of the criminality of the emails than to create a controversy about how they were obtained?
Catedly, I don't know how they were obtained, but I do think WikiLeaks does what all media organizations do. They receive information from whistleblowers, they confirm its authenticity, and they publish it. So John Podesta, are any of these emails fake?
Are any of them fabricated? Are any of them not accurate? Explain to us what you meant about the kids in the hot tub. Would you mind?
So that's where the Corsi matter stands. If Jerry Corsi goes before the grand jury and he tells the truth, it will be simply exculpatory. Then there's the question of Randy Credico.
This guy is a trip. A former left wing radio host in New York City, Credico was allowed to bring his dog into the grand jury.
But when I checked in New York State, his dog is not registered as a service dog. In fact, Mr. Credico has no known malady that requires him to have a dog.
Well, Credico tells the media he's a comfort dog and he has a note from his doctor. No, he doesn't produce it. There is no such note.
So why would Robert Mueller allow Mr. Credico to take the dog into the grand jury? It's very clear. You see, at one point I learned that Mr. Credico's dog was malnourished, that he wasn't feeding it.
You could tell because you could see the dog's ribs and you could see the dog had some kind of condition regarding its skin.
I did tell Credico that if he didn't feed his dog, I would be forced to take the dog. Well, they took the email and they no doubt showed it to the grand jury.
You see, Roger Stone is so evil, so cruel, so vicious that he threatened to take this poor man's dog. Wow.
Will I be allowed to take my dog into court? I kind of doubt it.
Then there's the larger question of Mr. Credico. I believe he may have lied to the grand jury, committed perjury, when he said that no, he didn't serve as an intermediary between Julian Assange or WikiLeaks and myself.
You see, I never had any direct contact with Assange. I never received any allegedly hacked emails from them. So let's take a look at this brief video.
You've previously denied being the back channel between Stone and Assange. Did you say that under oath today?
Probably. You want me to say yes. I definitely was not a back channel to Julian Assange if there was even a back channel to Julian Assange.
And you said that under oath today? They asked you that and you said that?
Yes.
Why would Stone say you were his back channel then?
You know, you're going to have to ask him that.
Assange. You don't know the guy that was the in-between guy between Assange and Roger Stone?
Here's my wife Kat. Kat, I'm Randy Credico. I'm the guy that was connected to Roger Stone. Do you remember him?
I'm the guy that's connected now between Stone and WikiLeaks. I'm very close with Julian Assange. Have you seen that?
Bingo. Bingo. And there you have it.
It was not a back channel to Julian Assange.
That's called perjury, folks. There you have the lying liar, lying Randy Credico back to back telling one journalist one thing and another journalist something else.
What did he tell the grand jury?
My lawyers can't wait to ask him. That's the state of affairs here where you have now 12 people that are either current or former associates of mine,
questioned by the FBI, at least nine of them questioned about Alex Jones.
What about the relationship between Roger Stone and Alex Jones? Does Roger Stone work for Alex Jones?
Obviously, nobody at the FBI tunes in to the war room every day at five o'clock Eastern where I host a show with my colleague, Owen Schreuer.
I'm Roger Stone. I'll have more for you on the other side, but in the meantime, go to theinfowars.com store, folks.
This is the lifeblood of what we do here and we need your help as never before.
It's a 360 win. You get great product and you bolster the fight for freedom.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, Infowars Life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and omega-3s found in our high quality, ultra-pure krill oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as athazanthin and omega-3s, Ultimate Krill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what krill oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil.
Now available at InfowarsStore.com.
Remove 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfowarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today.
You're definitely right, there was the Patriot voucher. I guess it is true, truth is preaching in the empire of lies.
I want to thank you personally, I have Passy Modus Thyroiditis, anyone who knows like a hypothyroidism condition.
I currently, I mean the product, I can just name it off real quick, Brainforce X2, Millennium.
The MicroZX Vitamin Mineral Fugitive Prospectar.
The Coffee, the Chaga Mushroom Blend, Supermal Vitality Alpha Male.
Let me tell you, it's given me my life back.
Just taking the thyroid medicine alone is not enough.
Just having these products has made my life just back to normal.
I'm working harder, I'm harder.
I feel like I'm, I'm just, it's unbelievable, your products are amazing.
They are the highest quality you're going to get out there and that's why we love them.
So thank you for the support.
God bless you, InfowarsStore.com. Take care, Travis.
Years ago, Infowars Life created the powerful MicroZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MicroZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula
designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MicroZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract,
microdarko bark and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MicroZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Discover trends and global developments years before they happen right here on The Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Roger Stone.
So Randy Kredico is taking his dog to Robert Mueller's grand jury.
But the dog is not a registered service dog in New York State.
What's this all about?
Well, Kredico plans to tell the grand jury that I threatened to take away his dog.
How cruel, how heartless, with the prop dog right there.
What he won't mention is that I did sell out of concern that because of Kredico's substance abuse and his indigence,
the dog is receiving neither food nor medical attention.
I stand second to no one in terms of my record of fighting for animal welfare.
This will not be the first time Mr. Mueller has misled the grand jury.
The Stone Cold Truth stings.
I really wanted to put that up so people could see my dog, Pui 2.0, one of two Yorkshire Terriers,
along with his sister, Mimi, who are my comfort dogs and a great comfort to my wife.
Now, as I said in the last segment, it's the Infowars.com store that is the lifeblood of what we do here at Infowars.
You see, we are not subsidized by any fat cat conservative billionaires.
We are not subsidized by any George Soros types.
Our sustenance comes completely and totally from the individual Info Warrior audience.
You are loyal patrons who support us by buying our great products, the nutraceuticals, the books, the t-shirts,
and the other great products available at the Infowars.com store.
This is without any question the very best place to get a copy of my new book, Stone's Rules.
And here is a special officer offer that is available only to those who buy it at the Infowars.com store,
rather than say Barnes & Noble or Amazon or your local bookstore.
It's available in those places, but here's an offer that is available only to Infowariers who buy it on the site.
If you buy Stone's Rules, my latest book, which is kind of like Alinsky's Rules for Radicals,
meant for conservatives or people who are launching a career,
whether it's in business or politics or media or tech or fashion or agriculture, for that matter.
These are my Rules of the Road, kind of like Sun Tzu's The Art of War or Nicolo Machiavelli's The Prince.
These are the maxims and guidelines I've learned in a 40-year career in the American political arena.
But if you buy Stone's Rules today at the Infowars.com store and you mail it to me,
I will gladly personalize it, sign it, and mail it back to you.
No, I'm not using a signature machine, folks.
It'll really be my signature with a personalization.
Buy your book at the Infowars.com store, mail it to me at the following address with your receipt,
proving that you bought it from Infowars.
There's the address, P.O. Box, Roger Stone, 1007 North Federal Highway, Department 166, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 33304.
Leave it up there for a second.
Buy your book, Stone's Rules, this offer only for Infowars and people who buy it there and mail it to me at that address.
It will be my honor to sign it, personalize it, and mail it back to you.
I've signed and turned out over 400 books so far from loyal Infowars who know that by buying the book at Infowars,
rather than buying it at your local bookstore, you're helping to fortify the fight for freedom.
You're helping to fuel what we do here at Infowars, which is straight from the shoulder investigative journalism.
You see, because of the Infowars store, there's no one telling Alex Jones and the great people at Infowars what we can and cannot report,
what we can and cannot say, what we can and cannot educate people about.
And that's what provides the terrific spirit and the entire rationale that makes us the cutting edge, the tip of the spear.
We need your help now. Please go to the Infowars store.
Alex Jones faces the greatest threat to his broadcasting history in his entire life.
Not only is he facing down multi-million dollar bogus lawsuits, in some cases financed by George Soros and other freaks,
but he's also facing a war of censorship where they want to shut Infowars down across all social media platforms.
Don't let it happen, folks. We can't fight if we don't have a war chest and only you can help us.
Please go to theinfowars.com store now.
Now, as an individual who has a longstanding personal relationship with the President of the United States,
I'm concerned about his administration.
While I'm not concerned about the direction he's taking in the country, I think that speaks for itself.
3.2 million new jobs, almost 5%, 4.6% economic growth, that's growth in the GDP.
In this quarter, the appearance that the very next quarter could actually hit 5.5%, maybe even 6% economic growth.
Record growth in wages, African American and Hispanic unemployment at the lowest point ever,
a record stock market, yes, President Donald Trump is making America great again.
And Republicans, including the President, need to run on a platform of peace and prosperity.
But instead, the President has, unfortunately, gotten dragged into a fraudulent controversy
with both the Washington Post and the New York Times.
The Washington Post has been in the forefront of publicizing the book by Bob Woodward,
held out to us as an icon, a man of impeccable integrity who can't be questioned,
when in fact, Bob Woodward is a fraud.
He lied about Watergate, he lied about being a military intelligence briefer in the Navy
and briefing White House Chief of Staff General Alexander Haig
and plotting with Haig to publicize the 18-and-a-half-minute gap,
which wasn't created by Richard Nixon or his longtime assistant, Rose Mary Woods,
but was put forward by General Haig.
How is it that Bob Woodward learned about the gap before the Senate investigating committee
looking into Watergate or before the Watergate prosecutors?
That's because Bob Woodward was a White House insider, a deep stator from the get-go.
Then, of course, Woodward lied about Iran Contra in the administration of President Donald Trump.
Yes, Woodward says that he snuck into the room, the hospital room, of CIA director Bill Casey,
who had been felled by a stroke, and that Casey gave him an exclusive interview
in which he confessed everything.
The problem was that Casey's stroke had left him without the capacity for speech.
How do we know this?
Well, Casey's wife and his daughter and his doctor all say so.
Busted Bob Woodward, the president should not dicker with Woodward,
nor should the president continue his back and forth, suggesting that Jeff Sessions of all people
should investigate who the author is of the New York Times' upeditorial
claiming that they are a Washington Trump administration insider
seeking to save the country from President Donald Trump.
I know exactly who wrote this.
No one. It's a fraud, a McGuffin. It's a con job.
And unfortunately, Donald Trump, who I love, has taken the bait.
Mr. President, your record is incredible. You are bringing this country back.
Ignore your critics.
Don't get down in the gutter with the Washington Post or the New York Times.
Talk about an incredible record of economic success
and your attempts abroad to bring a more peaceful world.
Barack Obama, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, couldn't even get the North Koreans to the table.
Yet Donald Trump has engaged them in peace talks.
How's that for changing the world scene?
If you want to look at who our real adversaries are abroad,
Donald Trump is smart enough to know that the Chinese are the major adversaries for the United States
and that Islamic terrorism is both a problem for ourselves and, of course, the Russians.
Those are the issues the President should run on for this election.
Those who say, oh, we're going to lose the House. It's over.
There's a blue tsunami coming, a little premature, in my opinion.
The President has the bully pulpit.
It's amazing to me that at no time during his presidency has he given an address
directly to the American people from the Oval Office.
The President has the bully pulpit and he can put his imprimatur and his message on the upcoming election.
Time is short, but Donald Trump has the whip hand if he chooses to use it.
I'm Roger Stone. It's been my privilege to be with you here on the Alex Jones show.
Shortly, I will be back with my colleague, Owen Schreuer, for The War Room.
We're going to be taking your phone calls on The War Room today
because things are moving so quickly in Washington.
Info warriors want to know exactly what's going on.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout
with the power of ultra-high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
InfoWarsLife and InfoWarsLife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient-dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at InfoWarsLife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit InfoWars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
