music
It's now only 50 days, 50 days out from what undoubtedly would be the most historic election
in the world of history.
Getting Trump in was only the fluke, it was only the beachhead.
You see, the globalist hope it was a fluke.
It really wasn't.
Populism and nationalism is exploding across the globe as we speak.
Thanks for joining us on this live Sunday, the 16th day already of September.
2018, I am Alex Jones, your host.
And let's get batten down here, batten down the hatches because we'll have the latest
hurricane news as it day loses the Carolinas in record floods, obviously.
But the big flood is the diarrhea of the mouth coming out of the reanimated corpse, the perfect
rotting edifice of the corrupt Democratic Party.
Joe Biden refers to Trump supporters as dregs of society.
The video is up on infowars.com, but then it gets better.
Oh, it gets better.
He talks about the men in white hoods with torches are coming.
He's talking about the Democratic Party.
And the Republicans want to have the KKK enslave black people.
I mean, it is unbelievable.
But this is the guy they have planned to run against Trump in two years.
I mean, look, Joe Biden looks like a dead body that Frankenstein electrocuted and that
stood back up on its hind legs.
It's where we playing all of this coming up today and a lot more.
Our favorite socialist dingbat, which he's not caught out wearing $3,600 outfits, since
he wants $40 trillion of free stuff for the American people, even though the entire global
elite themselves don't even have $10 trillion.
They're the ones, by the way, backing her.
But when she was confronted, even by liberals that, well, there's only, you know, $2 trillion
out there, discretionary money, she just said, well, I don't care what you say, we're going
to do it anyway.
So that's amazing video.
But let's get to this first piece and I'll play the larger piece when we come back from
break.
This is Joe Biden jumping the shark going further than saying just that Trump supporters
are deplorable.
No, no, no, no.
He says Trump supporters are the dregs of society.
Have you looked in the mirror at the poor sad saps conned by the Democrats?
I mean, they are the dregs and then the scum of society, the worst, the count Dracula's
of society are ruling over this throng of pathetic slaves.
Here he is despite losing in the courts and in the court of public opinion, these forces
of intolerance remain determined to undermine and roll back the progress you all have made.
This time they, not you, have an ally in the White House.
This time they have an ally.
There are small percentage of the American people, virulent people, some of them the dregs
of society.
And instead of using the full might of the executive branch to secure justice, dignity,
safety for all, the president uses the White House as a literal, literal bully, culprit.
Callously, callously exerting his power over those who have little or none.
Some of you in this room may be fortunate not to live in cities or working for companies
or protected by law or by policy, with privilege and access to defend yourselves and your families.
But across the country, too many of our fellow Americans lack those basic comforts, and that's
especially true for young people.
Many of you are familiar with the Trevor Project and the suit.
All right, this is just total loads of bull, if you know the facts.
I mean, Trump's bringing the prosperity for everybody.
These guys suppress it on purpose.
Look at blue cities they run, hell holes of degradation and pain.
It's all coming up on this live global transmission, infowars.com, newswars.com, spread those links
or we don't have any hope against these horrible bloodsuckers.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax
fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Go to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
It's Sunday, September 16, 2018, I'm your host, Alex Jones.
We're here every Sunday, 4 to 6 p.m. Central.
We're back weekdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., and all the other great live broadcasts.
We have the somalcast on AM and FM stations, TV, cable around the country.
I saw the new talking point over the weekend from CNBC, Reuters, CNN, after the fall of
Alex Jones.
The rise and fall of Alex Jones.
We have a bigger audience than we've ever had.
I've got our own internal numbers.
I've shown the videos.
We can have a go on Twitter before they ban that.
Look, here's Google Analytics, record-trafficking, but they want that perception that if you
don't go along with the globalists, if you don't go along with open borders or gun control,
you're not going to get an admission to college, you're not going to get a corporate job, you're
not going to have any access online, you better submit.
So, they're trying to bully the American people, and now it's come out.
The tables have been turned.
Think Progress, another George Soros-funded fake news outlet, gets censored by Facebook
fact-checkers, stories up on infowars.com, got picked up by a bunch of publications,
and here they are calling for me to be banned just a few weeks ago and celebrating it.
And then they're like, how dare Facebook censor us saying that Kavanaugh said that he wants
to overturn Roe v. Wade, which he never said.
And so they had the neocon outfit, weekly standard come, and they're now part of the
fact-checking group, along with the Southern Prairie Law Center and Media Matters and
George Soros' groups, and Snopes, famously fake.
So that's the group that lied about WMDs in Iraq.
That's the group that was never Trump.
That's the group that has been involved in so much corruption, headed up by Mr. Crystal,
whose father was the head of the Trotskyites and the famous communist, worked for Leon
Trotsky.
That is one of the worst groups you could have, but of course they've got the Democrats
coming in and censoring, and now we've got to have token conservatives from the weekly
standard who are even worse than the Democrats in many cases, warmongering neocons.
And they'll be the new superclass that decides what's real and not, and so they'll just
remove it off Facebook and then give a warning to think progress that if you do this anymore,
we may ban you.
Think about that.
A ruling Republican Democrat blue blood establishment that decides who and who can't post and what's
real and what isn't.
Oh, there'll be no, in fact, checking weekly standard or CNN, even though Anderson Cooper
got caught standing there up to his chest in a creek claiming he was amongst flooded
houses with his crew all standing around him on dry ground, or the weather channel,
or the guy being blown everywhere, and people just stroll right past him like it's no big
deal.
We all know what's fake.
We can make our own decision.
We can smell the truth, as Tucker Carlson says.
So let it all rise or fall and let the people decide.
Don't have fact checkers, failed CNN, failed New York Times, failed weekly standard that
loses money every month.
Don't have them as the new superclass that is up there deciding what you can and can't
see.
Let us see it all.
Let's see, we're not being banned and restricted because M. Full Wars is a lie, we're being
banned and restricted because what we're saying is the truth and is viral and is infectious
and here's the key.
They want to remove us off air so that they can then lie about us and say whatever they
want by building a straw man and go into the ring, go to the arena and beat us up.
And then we don't have a chance to respond.
If you want to see the article, we'll pull it up from infowars.com.
Anderson Cooper caught in massive fake news.
Anderson Cooper caught in deception of the American people.
Anderson Cooper caught in major performance art.
Can't they even report on the weather accurately?
Can't they even do that?
And the answer is no, they can't because they're all about deception.
They teach in journalism school how to lie now.
Member Gruber said he was hired by Obama to lie to people and Obama admitted it and he's
up there at universities giving speeches to graduate students about how to be a better
liar and how to deceive people and they're all rubbing their hands together like he's
God.
So the fact that they've gotten away with so much to them means well, Trump only got
in because we didn't lie enough, you see, but they can't have the real fact checkers
out there like infowars, they can't have us there because then it calls them on their
lives.
They want to as a big, corporate, massive group lie to us in mass and not have anyone
be able to oppose it or respond to it in any way.
Now we come back from break, a lengthy Joe Biden speech that tells whopper after whopper
after whopper.
I'm going to try to just get to a few clips of it and just analyze the lies that are there.
But it is like the worst around the fire stories you're trying to tell when you're out camping
with your dad and your grandpa and they try to scare you when you're five years old and
they go, let us tell you the story of the headless ghoul that rides through this area
of Texas.
Oh, he's got big red eyes and big long fangs and he's got a fork tail and just legend has
it near here.
Years ago, he grabbed some kids during the night, he's up there going, they were out
on horses with white hoods, burning torches and Trump wouldn't stop them.
They're the KKK.
I mean, it is the most ridiculous lies when it's the Democratic Party and the Republicans
that passed the Civil Rights Act, Martin Luther King was a Republican, but the public doesn't
have history so they don't know.
That's all coming up in the next segment and Matt Drudge warns of midterm blood blast.
Trump to lose 60 seats in the house like Obama unless we'll give you the unless we've got
Cortez on how she'd pay $40 trillion for socialist programs with $2 trillion falling flat on
her face.
We've got the New York Times and others now saying that again, Obama gets credit for the
economy, but since Trump's getting credit, let's just change how the numbers are looked
at.
Hollywood celebrates Paul Manafort guilty plea, checkmate F U Trump, but it's he's pleading
guilty on not paying taxes 15 years ago.
So where's your Russia gate?
See, it's not that now.
We're also going to look at young girl raped by 100 Islamic men.
You'll see how the mainstream media spun that and so much more here today and we also have
an amazing report.
Emily, we were Democrats are desperate for black vote, but they're not getting it.
That's why they're so scared.
Another key report as well.
When I had Eric bowling formerly a Fox News, I would see our TV here in studio.
Last week, he said, you know, how dare you say there were bombs in the buildings?
How dare you say that?
And I said, Eric, I have clips of Trump saying he said, I want to see him.
We were five minutes towards the end of the show and I said, I'll make a special video
for you and then we'll air it.
Then I'll send you that video.
So we're going to premiere it here tonight, start of the next hour and Roger Stone's all
big exclusive news.
And then I'm going to put it up to infowars.com on our own video feeds and we're going to
send that out to Mr. Bowling.
He's a good guy.
He means, well, he's a boy scout and he's an economist and he just can't believe where
I get this stuff that I heard that day there were bombs in the buildings.
Now, now maybe that's not true, but the media attacked me and said it never happened.
I talked to the police that said, no, the feds were inside building seven and said,
get ready.
They had a 10 second countdown and blew it up.
And guess what on PBS inadvertently, they had the video of the countdown and seven being
blown up.
So you're going to see all that.
It's a six minute video.
We got a 15 minute one coming out Tuesday.
So I'm just going to show you why I question that mean I don't think Islamic terror is
real.
None of that.
It means we've been lied to and there's a criminal alliance by partisanly with radical
Islam needs to stop info wars.com news wars.com.
You know, you're listening to the number one most banned broadcast in the world.
Why is it?
Because we tell the truth.
We love America.
We love freedom.
We're not backing down.
We all know the importance of fish oils while we are sure to provide them for ourselves.
It's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA to honor role is a powerful
DHA fish oil formula for your child built from the ground up to support your child's
development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultra purified krill oil and wild salmon fish oil
with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive
and brain health while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's
brain growth spurts built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega 3s.
This formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from info wars life at info wars store.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
Info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different super foods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone
broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also
supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric
root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your
body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at info wars store.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need
in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend infused
with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at infowarstore.com.
X2, we were selling it for about three years and then they found out how big it was and
how much we were buying and they said, oh we want more money, more money and oh this
and that and so I've broken my contract and right now we can't get more of this proprietary
ingredient that goes in X2 that literally is so pure that if you put in a peaker dish
on top of 90 degree hot plate it gasses like I dream of genie and it's purple gas.
I mean that is so pure it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now but I bought a huge amount of it
ordered at six months ago so I get the price down and I said if you don't lower it I'm
done I'm breaking the contract well I broke the contract last week and so this is potentially
the last run.
So right now it is the last run, there's a viable shield X2 and we've got a good supply
of it but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, infowarstore.com, if you have experienced it and you're not
ready to use, I suggest you stock up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time, infowarstore.com, it's 25% off right now.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's Alex Jones.
So we always hear that Trump is this really mean person, he wants to shut down free speech
but he's not calling for shutting down anybody's free speech, it's the mainstream corporate
media that wants all conservatives, all libertarians, all Christians, all veterans groups banned
off the internet.
We've got U.S. Senators Wyden and Warner and Murphy saying Alex Jones is only the beginning,
get rid of thousands, get rid of Rush Limbaugh.
We have the Federal Election Commission persecuting anybody that donates to Republicans.
We have the IRS going after churches and Christian groups.
We have a reign of terror and bullying going on.
But then we've got Joe Biden with all of his corruption and protecting Bill Clinton who
protected Al Qaeda and then supporting the Arab Spring under Obama and Hillary and uranium
one and the KKK background of the Democrats saying that he wants to pick a fight with
the bullies, meaning Trump and their supporters.
Now you're the ones beating us over the head with bike locks, throwing coffee on us, shooting
Congressman Scalise, calling for Trump's overthrow, calling for the economy to be destroyed so
that we can stop Trump.
That's the Democrats.
But now he says we're the dregs of society.
Let's look up the definition of dregs.
It means winos, drug addicts, pickpockets, thugs, child molesters, murderers, ex-convicts,
the lowest of the low, the remains of liquid left in a container together with sediment
or grounds, the most worthless parts of something, the crap inside intestines.
You can take pig intestines and make chitlins, got to clean out the crap, boil the guts and
then fry them, I've had them, it's a southern dish.
But the dregs would be the guts, you throw out the dregs.
So if you go to a Democratic Party function or a liberal event, they look like they're
dead.
They look like they've been beaten ahead with a baseball bat, they stumble around, most
people can hardly talk, and I don't feel powerful when I see a group of Democrats, I feel sorry
for them.
That's why they're really censoring conservatives and nationalists off of Facebook and Twitter
and YouTube, because we would all, even under censorship, we used to have videos with 30,
40 million views, under censorship, routinely a million, two million views, going out and
just pointing a camera at a crowd of Democrats with the after mother, white people, they're
monkey subhumans, you know, we're going to kill you, and then you go to the next person
and the next person and the next person and the next person and the next person, and they
all sound like something out of a Hellraiser movie.
So when he calls us dregs, think about the projection that Joe Biden's involved in, because
Hillary in the WikiLeaks calls her supporters worthless, dumb, stupid, baristas that want
something more from her when they're lazy living in their mom's basement, close quote.
Trump says, I want to get you out of your mom's basement, I believe in you, whether
you're white or black, and you see him try to move us an economy back and have a culture
of working, and they flip out and say, he's a loser, he's a crazy man, he's the worst
thing since, gonorrhea.
So let's start going to this Joe Biden piece.
Joe Biden refers to Trump supporters as dregs of society, here he is.
So there's your dregs of society clip.
Now let's go to a larger clip where he talks about the KKK riding through the night with
burning torches and they're coming to get you like they're telling ghost stories to
little kids, and they're the people that hate you if you're gay, and they're the people
that hate you if you're black, but here's the good news, Americans, no matter what color
they are or where they came from, are figuring out that the Trump economy is a lot better,
that the establishment is against Trump, so let's go ahead and start going to this.
But this onslaught that we're seeing does require, require us not only to be vigilant,
but be more aggressive and demand more, demand more of our leaders who represent basic American
values of respect, decency, equality, giving hate no safe haven.
Giving hate no safe haven, that means anything they define the Second Amendment, the nuclear
family saying he or she being bad in the US, Canada, Sweden, being masculine, being feminine,
whatever they want to define as something they want to attack, they say, don't give
your speech safe haven, believe me, we know bullies, you're not giving speech a safe haven.
Let's continue.
We hold these truths self-evident, all men are critical and found by their creator.
Sounds corny when you say it, but the American people basically in their gut, we've never
met it, but that's the aspiration and they're not giving up on it.
Let's pause again.
It's true that those great ideas have never been met, but the idea of meeting it has brought
us further than many other nations, that probably more than anybody, the American system.
So why are we the bad guys?
Why do we have to be the Nazis?
Why do we have to be the evil folks when our history doesn't show that?
But again, this is coming to you from the Democratic Party and somebody that literally
was under Senator Byrd, who was a grand dragon in the KKK and the Democratic Party, but he
thinks you have no memory.
Let's continue.
You know, Barack and I agreed to be raised silent for a while to give this administration
a chance to get up and running the first year.
Let's pause again, back it up 10 seconds, they were never quiet through their surrogates.
It came out in all the different documents and lawsuits and FBI files that the Democrats
led by Obama, Hillary and others have been orchestrating the fake PP gate dossier.
They've been launching the attacks on Trump.
They've been trying to block everything.
Oh, but they gave him a chance.
They tried to make him succeed.
The media, the Democrats, you know, gave Trump that honeymoon period that every other president
got.
There was no honeymoon period.
They tried to keep him from getting his delegates.
They tried to keep him from even becoming the president.
They tried to riot and block the entrances to his inauguration and then lied about who
was there.
Everything Biden says is a lie.
Continue.
You're not given up on it.
You know, Barack and I agreed to be raised silent for a while to give this administration
a chance to get up and running the first year.
Don't forgive me.
You're not remained silent after Charlottesville.
No, I want to be deadly earnest with you about this.
Let's pause again.
We're going to come back with the rest of this.
Charlottesville, one woman run over by a crowd attacking a car and the guy guns it and runs
over and I point out that George Soros funded Antifa.
The police stood down.
You have the alt-right people who most of them used to work for the Democrats clearly feds.
You have this big production they do.
Trump says both sides are bad.
Antifa's bad.
And I think KKK type folks, KKK lights bad, but he said it's Antifa that attacked, which
is totally true.
And then, oh, this is their big thing.
This guy funded the Arab Spring that killed millions of people.
Biden, his son, runs part of Ukraine and all the stolen natural gas there.
He's a monster.
But he sits there and says America's ethos is the KKK.
No, it's your ethos.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and
so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
These combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from InfoWarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
You've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodide on as well, InfoWarsLife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage.
And that's why we need you to go to the site now, if you're not in the market for one of
our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution, $25, $50, $250, even $500 would
be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their
campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey, how would you like to take InfoWars with you wherever you go?
Well, now you could do just that with the new official InfoWars app.
And here's the best part, it is absolutely free at the Apple Store and Google Play.
You can join the InfoWars today.
Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app app, it's the InfoWars official
app taken on the globalist at point-blank range.
And with your help spreading it, and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
InfoWars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit
of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Visit infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
A changing war on corruption, it's Alex Jones.
So, Joe Biden came out and he went beyond saying that Trump supporters are deplorable.
He went on to basically, well, I mean, here's the exact quote, the dregs of society, which
were already played.
So, getting back into his speech, he talks about the KKK riders and their hoods in the
night and like they're galloping, they're galloping, they're galloping like you're
in the woods and here comes the evil rider to get you.
Total fair mongering and is it lost on society that Democrats were the party of the KKK?
Is it lost on everybody that they're the ones creating racial division in America at every
level?
And again, it's even in their own WikiLeaks that they want to create racial division to
control people because they're not going to give you jobs, they're not going to give you
a future like all the blue cities, they're going to give you poverty, they're going to
give you enslavement, they're going to give you being domesticated.
The good news is you look at the Democratic Party, they're led by Nancy Pelosi, who can
hardly talk, they're led by Joe Biden who looks like he was a dead body at the morgue
that somebody hooked electricity up to that was reanimated for the speech and he's spewing
all the same old garbage.
And so that's the good news is that people are sick of this and they're tired of it and
they see through it, but Joe Biden is still a clear and present danger because he's not
going to ever stop until he realizes that you're not buying into it.
Because as I said earlier, when they overthrew Ukraine, George Soros five years ago, his
son took control of the $10 billion gas company that comes out of Russia and he now makes
hundreds of millions a year, his son.
That's an example of the criminal looting.
They're not going to stop till the last minute because they're stealing the whole time.
That's why they're never going to back down, they're never going to give up.
And they're also like cornered rats, so there's no end to what they will do now.
They are so dangerous, they are so evil.
Let's continue.
That's why I wrote an article for Atlantic Magazine entitled The Battle for America's
Soul, because don't clap or you can boo if you want, but don't clap.
But I'm serious, I'm serious.
This is about basic decency, the idea that goons could come out of fields at night with
lighted torches carrying Nazi flags chanting the same exact anti-semitic bile that was
chanted in the streets of Nuremberg and Berlin.
Let's hit pause again.
Look at how he drools the same anti-semitic bile that was chanted in the streets of Germany.
And it was George Soros, who was the Nazi collaborator as the main funder of the Democrats.
When it's Junker, whose family was the richest family in Germany as Nazis who run the EU
today that was a Hitler plan, when they're the ones using racial division.
But they got it set up in Hollywood like if you're American and you're pro-freedom and
you're pro-second amendment and you're pro-free market, you are a Nazi.
And now you saw where a guy at the Coast Guard headquarters being pro-Trump did this sign
and they removed him, fired him off the job, and then the Coast Guard apologized for the
Nazi sign.
Well, I say that the Apple sign, which we're getting rid of in the company, because it's
so fascist working with China now, I say it's a sign that supports China that kills more
people than Hitler ever did.
So I say I don't want to see the Apple sign because to me it's offensive, but see that's
not going to happen.
Plus, I don't want to get rid of symbols.
They just want to be able to say whatever symbols they want are evil and remove whatever
they want because they're at war with language because tyranny is something that isn't popular
and people don't want it, so they have to sabotage it.
Let's go ahead and go back to Joe Biden.
The carrying of Nazi flights chanting the same exact anti-semitic bio that was chanting
the streets of New York.
And I forgot all three of the leaders worked for Obama within one year, Hillary, and then
they all suddenly went from big university operators with parents of the Democratic Party,
some of them intelligence groups, to going out marching around with torches dressed
in 1930s outfits so that people think Nazis are invading.
And how many times has the Southern Property Law Center and ADL and others been caught
posing as Nazis?
How many times?
I got a stack of news where Muslims have been caught in the U.S. and Canada this week staging
attacks on themselves that they did.
Let's go back to Joe Biden.
In Berlin, in every other German city in the 30s.
It's serious, guys, so hush up.
This is deadly earnest.
Yes, the Nazis are here.
We are in a fight for America's soul and we have leaders.
We have leaders with the time when that occurred when these guys were accompanied by white
supremacists and Ku Klux Klan and those who objected making a comparison saying they're
good people in both groups.
What has become of us?
Our children are listening and our silence is complicity.
Our silence is complicity.
You know, Trump got a briefing to Charlottesville from Homeland Security who had agents there
and they said, sir, it was some reporters on both sides, some pro-peace people on one
side, Antifa's bad, and then some Nazis on the other side that were bad.
So Trump goes, well, the Nazis were bad and so was the Antifa was bad, and there were
good people on both sides as well.
That was given to him in the briefing.
You had a bunch of people out there to cover it, a bunch of peace people, a bunch of right-wing
pro-free speech people, and then you had some Nazis and some Antifa that, yeah, I think
we all agree are unsavory folks.
But that's how this works.
Well, good job of the crew.
They actually found the photo.
Remember that of Trump being briefed on Charlottesville.
He didn't know what it was.
He went and said, what is this?
They said, here it is, sir.
So he went out there, but imagine in America, the Communist Chinese have killed 100 plus
million people.
They've done that.
They're their own people.
Never a word about them.
Never about Apple and slave factories and suicide nets.
Never about Google helping round up political dissidents.
It's all about America and Nazis and Charlottesville.
The people with torches, all 20 of them, are coming to get you, and you better do what
Joe Biden says, or the Nazis will get you.
This is how stupid they think you are.
And really, what it was was the art club from a couple local universities with guys that
get Southern Primary Law Center money coming out in court who just all dress up like Nazis
to go scare the hell out of everybody and go after Trump.
That's what the left is.
They're a drama club.
They are thespians.
They are actors.
It's what they do.
It's what they constantly get caught doing, and they don't want us to know that.
Anderson Cooper stood in water up to his chest in a ditch to say the houses were flooded
when they weren't.
The Weather Channel was being blown all over the place.
People were calling behind him.
It was fake.
It's what they do.
They are the fraud, and they don't want you asking questions.
They don't want you talking about it.
They want to put out their fake info and have you going to suspend a disbelief and have
you believe that it's all real.
But once somebody's awake to a scam, they never go back, and that's what they don't
get.
There is going to be a big giant red wave.
The question is, will the seawall of the Democratic Party, will the Democratic Party, be able to
build a big enough wall to block that seawall, the election fraud, and the rest of it?
I'm going to keep fighting to the end, regardless.
I don't know if you are, but I sure as hell am.
Because I'm conscious I'm not dead yet.
Living in Volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lailania states, but a lot of us on the Big Island
rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new Platinum
Standard of Advanced Multivitamin Formulation.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
It's supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with Vitamin
Mineral Fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Let's take a look at the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America
Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested, and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you
need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas
we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse
bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out
of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods
and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion,
tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's
fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula
contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen
and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth
can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite
product today at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones back live broadcasting worldwide.
I want to get into what's happening right now
with the attempt to confer Brett Kavanaugh
to the Supreme Court and how they float this whole thing
about 35 years ago in high school,
he might have jumped on top of a girl at a drunk party.
And now they've got the person going public.
I have personally experienced mainstream media
go out and offer people money to lie about me.
And when you see it in print, you know
how criminal these groups are, and the fact
that Democrats believe it's their duty
to go out and make things up.
When you see something like this, it doesn't hold any water.
In fact, we're going to get to it here in just a moment.
But it's amazing the links to which this stuff will happen.
And maybe this woman even believes it.
We're going to get to that here in just a moment.
But first, it's important to understand
that I'm not really worried about me being
platformed off of 90-plus platforms now.
I'm concerned because it's concerted and it's corporate,
and it's being done to many, many other people in unison,
and by them picking info wars out to do it.
And building a straw man, it distracts from the fact
that it is monopolistic, it is racketeering,
it is very, very dangerous what's
going on by any yardstick.
And the addled, tepid, sluggish, sloth-like response
by the Republicans is horrifying.
I haven't even gotten to this yet.
We've got screenshots.
And we've got IT people that gave us a report.
And I'll put it out tomorrow.
And it's exclusive.
But we actually had software that we use banned over the weekend.
And I've talked to lawyers about this.
This is definitely illegal, definitely racketeering.
I mean, it's unbelievable.
And it deals with Apple.
And I'll try my best because there's
a target fixation that goes on in warfare
where you'll get fixated on your target,
and then not even pay attention to what's happening to you.
The famous case is people flying aircraft strafing,
say, a train or a truck, and they'll fly into the vehicle.
They'll just keep and fly into it.
And we've got a great crew here.
They're great people.
But it's kind of like I learned about this on Friday,
confirmed it with IT.
It's the biggest story yet in our censorship.
But see, just like the public's supposed
to get conditioned to being censored and blacklisted and banned
by info wars being in tens of thousands of articles,
they're supposed to wear us out psychologically.
Finally, when they start doing stuff
like killing the software we use, it's like, so what?
Everybody knows we're getting banned.
So what?
They took Alex away and killed him, too.
You know, we knew it was coming.
And it's just like that globalist told me
that time off record, he's one of the heads,
one of the big banks, one of the fourth-largest bank
that time.
He said, Alex, you're going to adapt to being a slave.
People don't adapt to fighting it.
He said, you will lose.
And you know what?
Maybe he's right.
And then those of us that don't prey on you,
we're the mentally ill ones.
Because what the predators will tell you is,
general public are just failed predators.
And if you help them, they'll just tear you apart.
But you know what?
My soul tells me that's wrong, and I'm not going to act like that.
It was very, very frustrating, to say the least.
And what they're doing to us is so sick.
All of it's scientifically directed.
So who knows?
We may never even tell you, hell, they might just shut us
down.
We want to do an article.
Hell, no one will tell you.
We're going to do an article.
We're going to do an article.
We're going to do an article.
We're going to do an article.
We're going to do an article.
Hell, no one will.
You know, by the time they actually shut us down,
there won't even be a story.
They take me out and shoot me in the back of the head.
By then, it's like, that's all news.
They're going into people's phones and killing programs
that came with the phones.
They're going to be in full wars.com.
But everybody still got their food.
Everybody still can go home and watch television.
So who cares?
Exactly.
Exactly.
And that's why we fail.
That's why we die.
And I just watch us being incrementally enslaved.
And I'm upset about it.
And I'm supposed to see how that works and join it and farm you.
I'm supposed to serve the globalist so I get life extension technology
and I get cybernetic enhancement down the road.
And I'm supposed to revel in how dumb you are.
See?
But instead, I get to be the bad guy because I'm trying to save you.
Because I have some type of connection to you.
It's beyond amazing.
So people ask, you know, why is your broadcast banned?
Why are they trying to ban it?
Because of what we're covering and because they're going to go ahead
and make that move and because they want to set the precedent.
And I know this, I look at people that have decided to make these evil decisions
and they are the most unhappy, twisted, physically ugly people on Earth.
So let me tell you, metaphysically, culturally, and a gut level,
I know not to join them.
But the public needs to stand up for their own self-preservation.
Now, this is funny for radio listeners.
But it's really funny if you're a TV viewer at infowars.com,
or it's last show or on TV stations around the country.
Because this is a piece that Drew and Savannah put together a month and a half ago
when our app went to number one on Apple and on Android.
And then after it went to number one, they just removed the Apple one
that had 2 million downloads.
The Android is still there at infowars.com.
But this is us making a joke out of what they did.
But we knew the next move would be
blockinfowars.com at the browser level.
And that has now begun.
And info wars will not be the one that breaks it.
I'm going to let the enemy go ahead and do it now.
No one cares around here.
That's fine. I love it too.
Great. That's fine. Yeah.
Close our doors.
So, we'll let the enemy break it.
And let's see how they, oh, it's a private company.
Oh, it's a, oh, you bought that phone.
So they're blocking visiting infowars.com on an Apple phone.
That's what they're doing now.
And it's cute and it's fun and it's neat and it's great.
And so here it is.
Here's the clip.
Hey guys, my name is Savannah Hernandez.
And if you're always on the go like me, then you're not always tied to your computer TV.
So we just released our free info wars official app.
The info wars official app includes all of our live broadcasts,
like war room with Owen Schroyer, real news with David Knight,
and the holy grail of podcasts and radio, the Alex Jones show.
And the best part about the info wars official app is that every single time you go live,
you get notifications so that you never miss a beat.
So whether you're in the car or on a run,
this app makes it easy to keep the info war right in your pocket.
So what are you waiting for?
Sound like the info wars.
The best info wars Apple ban your app.
I helped too.
Ah, Oliver.
I hate free speech too.
We hate free speech.
But I can tell you, millions download the app,
and they take it out of the store.
Congress does nothing when that's so illegal.
Next, they're going to go in and take the app off your phone.
Next, they're going to block the info wars RSS feeder on Apple,
which they've already done.
That's the breaking news.
And just everything else.
And see, by the time they, by the time they get to the real censorship,
the real extermination of freedom,
it's just laissez faire a lot because you've already gotten yourself ready to accept that.
And so see, by the time you've done that,
oh, it's like think progress is being banned.
Well, okay, that's all right too.
You know, as long as the good old neocon boys over at the CIA do it,
as long as, you know, because nobody reads the weekly standard, everybody hates them.
So what's the power structure to do?
Oh, put them in charge of censoring the left.
And the left won't defend the right, the right won't defend the left,
and then it's game over.
Well, that's not the truth.
We're winning big red, red waves coming, but folks have to really realize we're two minutes to midnight.
And now is the time to get on your knees to Jesus.
We'll be right back with a second hour.
We'll be right back with a second hour.
InfowarsLife.com
And now because of their intensifying censorship,
it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter
and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between us
with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to,
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
So about five months ago, the EU introduced legislation to ban memes, seriously,
because their AI can't scan it, it doesn't get humor, so they can't censor it.
And so they go, oh, it's copyright, it's got to be reviewed by the EU,
or there's multi-million euro fines.
And then now they passed it.
So the first media said, oh, it'll never happen.
Now, of course, it's happened.
The EU killing legislation that is designed to destroy the Internet
here is part of the report from John Bow.
EU Parliament recently put the Internet, at least in Europe,
on a path towards certain corporate Orwellian doom.
This discussion is bedeviled by all sorts of artificial media,
twist storms and hysteria of one kind or another.
There's a very good argument against the lack of democracy in the EU.
Isn't it funny?
You know, when I came here 17 years ago,
and I said that I wanted to lead a campaign to get Britain to leave the European Union,
you all laughed at me.
Well, I have to say, you're not laughing now, are you?
The main reason the United Kingdom voted the way that it did
is you have, by stealth, by deception, without ever telling the truth
to the British or the rest of the peoples of Europe,
you have imposed upon them a political union.
Article 11, also known as the link tax,
forces anyone linking an article of more than one word to a news story
to pay for a service that licenses the article.
That news site can, according to The Verge, charge anything they want
to write to quote them or refuse to sell altogether,
effectively giving them the right to choose who can criticize them.
While Article 13, also known as the upload filter,
requires all but the smallest platforms will have to defensively adopt copyright filters
that examine everything you post and censor anything judged to be a copyright infringement,
according to the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
And if that wasn't enough to bring the free flow of information to a grinding halt,
typical social media posts like a selfie taken at a football game
have been targeted by Article 12A.
No posting your own photos or videos of sports matches,
only the organizers of sports matches will have the right
to publicly post any kind of record of the match.
No posting your selfies or short videos of exciting plays.
You are the audience. Your job is to sit where you're told.
Passively watch the game and go home, according to the EFF.
Also, a freedom of panorama exemption wasn't accepted.
For example, if you take a selfie on a busy street
and licensed material happens to be in your shot,
whether it's a t-shirt, a licensed architectural design,
aka a building or a billboard, you will be infringing on a copyright.
Also not covered.
Anything we regard in America as fair use,
no user-generated content exemption,
which would have made EU states carve out an exception to copyright
for using excerpts from works for criticism, review, illustration,
caricature, parody or pastiche.
EU Army to increase ranks seven-fold.
I remember 10 years ago saying there's a secret plan for an EU Army
because it had actually come out in documents.
We'd actually gotten documents from someone inside Bilderberg.
They were discussing an EU Army to stop countries from having their own borders.
They were going to flood Europe with North Africans and Islamists
outside of the Middle East.
It's all true. It all happened.
Of course, it was real documents we got.
Then a guy who works at the National Archives
brought me secret Bilderberg documents the next year confirming it all.
We published them all.
I did get that threat.
Now, but Junker, when you look at the unelected head of the EU
that anyone didn't vote to enter, but they're in the UK,
he is the grandson. His father was a top Nazi.
His grandfather was the richest guy in Germany.
All right, folks, we'll be back.
The full John Bowne report is on infowars.com,
EU internet killing legislation.
It's really important.
We'll be back with Eric Boling confronted with 9-Eleven Truths.
Stay with us.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways,
including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism,
helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula
that contains unmodified high-quality krill oil concentrate
paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil,
now available at infowarsstore.com.
Good friends with Trump now with CRTV.
We had Eric Boling in studio.
He was going to come on about the economy
and about how Trump's ideology is making America great,
standing up to big corporate bullies.
Instead of the media saying he has no soul,
but Boling wanted a virtue signal to the mainstream media
and say, aren't you all right?
They're racist.
And I'm like, that's a Hillary Clinton talking point.
And oh, you think the government did 9-Eleven?
And I'm like, yeah, the 28 pages,
criminal elements of our government ally with Saudi Arabia stood down.
I've had Senator Paul on.
I've had Congressman Jones on.
I've had former deputy directors
and former heads of SCIOP of the CIA on.
This is a well-known animal.
Doesn't mean radical Islam doesn't exist.
And he just was like, no, I can't believe it.
There were real people down there.
Yeah, we know real people died.
All I'm saying is if you go look at the evidence of Building 7
or a BBC and CNN reporting,
they were going to blow up Building 7, 47-story building.
That happened later.
They said it never happened.
So the point is it needs to be investigated.
And it turns out within days of the event on three different shows,
then real estate mogul, now President Trump,
said he thought there were bombs in the buildings and his engineer
who helped build the World Trade Center,
thought that.
So Bowling was here and I would mention this.
He goes, oh, you don't have the clip, you know,
you know, I don't want to just hear it.
Well, guess what?
Now we have the clips and here it is, ladies and gentlemen.
Here is the report.
I get blamed for every conspiracy theory.
There's some crazy person made up.
I said, I do not agree with you that the US government,
someone inside the government had knowledge of the terror attack
prior to the attack.
Oh, really?
All over Twitter yesterday, Mainline left his site,
celebrated and said America deserved it.
Reality winner had a top secret security clearance
and was helping ISIS.
There are some, the average professor at UT down the street
loves 9-11 and says America deserved it.
There were elements in our government ally with radical Islam
that helped them carry out the attack.
Just like the character covering up New Mexico.
You can argue whether or not America deserved it or not.
I don't think America deserved it.
I'm saying the left is cheerleading it.
It wasn't your theory, Alice.
Your theory was not only did America not deserve it,
but the United States government knew about the attack
prior to the attack and decided to stand out.
A very different theory.
I don't want to spend all our time on 9-11.
It's not that I'm running away from it.
It's that the media misrepresent what I say about it.
I believe Islamic terror and radical Islam
is one of the number one threats on the planet,
probably number one.
I know that there are criminals in our government like Brennan
who reportedly converted to Wahhabism.
Obama helped launch the Arab Spring
to overthrow our allies in Egypt.
You name it.
And I think that elements let this happen,
like PNAC, wrote to let there be an attack
to end up taking our liberties away.
And I've got FBI was warned about flight schools.
That's CBS News.
FBI knew Al Qaeda polished training in U.S. order to stand down.
ABC News.
The State Department lapses, aided 9-11 hijackers
and they have the airlifts of evil.
Flight tens of thousands of Al Qaeda fighters out.
Our military was ordered to do it.
I don't blame our military.
I was like, oh yeah, our military.
No, I love our military.
The Bin Laden family was whisked out in the United States
by President Bush himself right after the 9-11 attack.
And they went back to Saudi Arabia, correct?
That's right.
When you had the World Trade Center go,
people were put into planes that were friends, family,
girlfriends, and they were put into planes
and they were sent back for the most part to Saudi Arabia.
All I'm saying is there is a radical Islamic alliance
with the left and there are people in the government
working to protect Islam.
They got this imam that's connected to dozens of bombings.
After six months, he's been released from British prison
next week.
You said some things that I agree with.
I believe radical Islam is the greatest threat
to the United States, our freedom, maybe even the globe.
I'll agree with that.
Maybe the left's bigger, though.
Well, I think the left is a different type of threat
and it's a longer term threat where radical Islam
could kill a lot of people real fast
and the left is going to take a while for them to take over
and take away our liberties and freedoms.
But I think we can deal with a straight on attack
like radical Islam.
It's the left creeping around.
I don't like them either.
I'm on board with that.
Well, this is video on screen of them saying
Building 7 has already fallen.
Have you seen that video?
No.
And it's right behind her.
I can't hear her.
Can we apply for it?
What?
I'd like to hear her say it's already fallen.
And by the way, Alex, anyone could throw a video,
the picture behind it, the news press.
That could be true.
Well, she said Building 7 has fallen.
They put the story out beforehand.
Now, more on the latest building collapse in New York.
You might have heard a few moments ago.
I was talking about the Salomon Brothers building collapsing.
And indeed, it has.
Jane, what more can you tell us about the Salomon Brothers
building and its collapse?
Well, only really what you already know.
Details are very, very sketchy.
We are getting information now that one of the other buildings,
Building 7 in the World Trade Center complex,
is on fire and has either collapsed or is collapsing.
It was almost as if it were a planned implosion.
It's just pancake.
Well, pancaking almost like a precision enclosure.
It's reminiscent of those pictures we've all seen
too much on television before
when a building was delivered to the store
destroyed by world-class dynamite at Mount Japan.
Donald Trump is on the line.
We know him as the man behind lots of real estate in Manhattan.
And of course, Donald, I understand you were actually
a witness to what happened this morning.
Well, I have a window that looks directly at the World Trade Center.
And I saw this huge explosion.
I was with a group of people.
You really couldn't even believe it.
And even, I think, worse than that,
for years I've looked right directly at the building.
I'd see the Empire State Building in the foreground
and the World Trade Center in the background.
And now I'm looking at absolutely nothing.
It's just gone.
You know, the World Trade Center was always known
as a very, very strong building.
Don't forget, that took a big bomb in the basement.
Now, the basement is the most vulnerable place
because that's your foundation.
This was an unbelievably powerful building.
If you know anything about structure,
one of the first buildings that was built from the outside,
the steel, the reason the World Trade Center
had such narrow windows, is that in between all the windows
you had the steel on the outside.
So you had the steel on the outside of the building.
That's why when I first looked, and you had big, heavy I-beams,
when I first looked at it, I couldn't believe it
because there was a hole in the steel.
And this is steel that was, you remember the width
of the windows of the World Trade Center, folks.
I think, you know, if you were ever up there,
they were quite narrow.
And in between was this heavy steel.
I said, how could a plane, even a plane,
even a 767 or 747 or whatever it might have been,
how could it possibly go through the steel?
I happen to think that they had not only a plane,
but they had bombs that exploded almost simultaneously
because I just can't imagine anything being able
to go through that wall.
Most buildings are built with the steel
as on the inside around the elevator shaft.
This one was built from the outside,
which is the strongest structure you can have,
and it was almost just like a can of soup.
I just think that there was a plane with more than just fuel.
I think it just seemed to me that to do that kind
of destruction is even more than a big plane
because you're talking about taking out steel,
the heaviest caliber steel that was used on a building.
I mean, these buildings were rock solid.
So I said the exact same things back at the time.
It was on local news that were bombs in the buildings.
And the media would say,
Jones says the fire department blew it up,
or Jones says the military did, never said that.
I said, I saw the news.
I heard the news.
They said they blew it up.
And then you had John O'Neill,
the deputy head of the FBI quit a month before 9-11.
And he came out and said,
we're going to let Al Qaeda attack us.
Al Qaeda has infiltrated our government.
And it's wrong what happened and we need to expose it.
And then he died.
His first day at work was 9-11
as the head of security at the World Trade Center.
And I've got the footage of the local police saying,
get back.
They're going to blow it up.
Doesn't mean the police are involved.
I've talked to cops that were there during the 10-second countdown.
But don't just have that.
I found the cops who were on PBS getting the countdown
for Building 7.
And they blew up other buildings too.
And all the chaos they're told, oh,
we're going to protect these buildings.
It takes days, if not weeks, to wire these buildings.
Do I know what happened?
No, I don't.
Just like President Trump doesn't.
I covered it.
I was on air.
I'm not going to lie to you.
Now, Eric Boling said, hey, show me the clips.
Eric, we just showed you the clips.
So this is a live show.
But later, we'll cut this out.
We'll archive it.
TemphalWars.com and NewsWars.com.
Our own video feeds.
We're censored on YouTube.
We'll send this out to Eric Boling.
But you aren't banned from YouTube.
You can upload this segment to YouTube.
And I hope you do.
Don't forget TemphalWars.com.
For this live show, we can bypass the censors
and go directly there and subscribe for free
to the podcast of the live shows
and find the live audio feeds.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
What we are sure to provide them for ourselves,
it's just as important to make sure your kids
get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula
for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil,
ultrapurified krill oil,
and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins
to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula,
you can support your child's optimal heart,
joint, cognitive, and brain health
while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential
for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients
and 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined
to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula
to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll
from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
Years ago, InfowarsLife created
the powerful MycoZX formula
to help you combat internal yeast
as the years went on,
and more toxins were pumped into the environment.
Our team knew we had to create a bigger
and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula
designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast
and fungal organisms,
there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support
a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast
that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
InfowarsLife is used by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract.
Our formula is fueled by ingredients
that stood the test of time
as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today
at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
InfowarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine.
Introducing pollen block.
It's a primary new, natural way
to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal
and sinus passageways,
eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s,
researchers in France noticed
that people who ate certain quail eggs
experienced less seasonal immune
and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials,
and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research,
a fast-acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective.
It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found
that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune
and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to InfowarsLife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
InfowarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best-source, prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best
for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion
live, active culture,
floral life, as well as MycoZX
that targets the yeast, the mold,
and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You can get them separately or together
and make really, really big savings
and get high-quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
That's all for today. InfoWarsLife.com
We're ahead of the Trump campaign.
Muller, Sharks circling him.
Manafort agreeing to plea bargain,
but not on Russiagate on tax evasion
15 years ago.
But everybody is ready to blow their brains
out of there about Russiagate.
The reason Roger's here is to get into
Matt Drudge, who's got a smart
political brain on the shoulders.
Warns of midterm bloodblath.
Trump to lose 60 seats
of the house like Obama did on less.
But he cryptically didn't say
what unless meant.
And then, California
professor, writer
of controversial Brett Kavanaugh letter
speaks out about her allegation
of sexual assault.
Never told anybody till 2012,
and she just said a group of frat boys
were drunk and jumped on top of me
for a few seconds in a bed.
I think a group of frat boys
beat me up a couple of times,
but actually it was Brett.
In fact, I'm not a secret source.
Brett Kavanaugh
in 1986 came to Dallas,
Texas, and I was
in high school and he raped me.
No, I'm serious.
He came in the room, it was him.
He punched me right in the nose, and he raped me.
And that's it.
He can't be confirmed. In fact,
he then
opened up a black suitcase
and 14 Kibler elves came out.
You're thinking, hey, they're not scary,
they're a little. Listen,
they were dangerous.
They tied me down like little apputians
in Gulliver's Travels
and they
they made me take DMT
and PCP.
And then, once I was doing that,
Barack Obama flew in
like a little winged pig
and landed at the foot of my bed.
No, I'm being sarcastic here, ladies and gentlemen.
I could say
secret source says that
Hillary Clinton
tells the truth
and you know it was a lie.
I mean, this is so obvious.
At least Anita Hill worked
for Clarence Thomas.
But then they all the witnesses
of her throwing herself at him.
And then it never happened.
So we're going to get into that
with Roger before we end this segment
as well. But Roger
the big inch a lot of first Joe Biden
and maybe we should keep the first 20 seconds
of that club says that
Trump supports the dregs of society.
So if deplorables hurt Hillary
this has got to hurt Joe Biden.
Yeah, I mean, Joe Biden
is the world's class
example of elitism.
He lives in Greenville, Delaware,
the wealthiest part of town.
And he tries to pass himself off
as just good old regular Joe.
You know, this is a guy
whose son Hunter
got extraordinarily
lucrative business deals
out of both Ukraine
and China in the
immediate aftermath of his
visiting both countries with his
vice presidential father.
You want to talk about collusion?
I mean, Joe Biden is
is about as tone deaf
as you can get.
And this constant
disparagement of Donald
Trump supporters because they're working
class people because they didn't
go to Harvard
or Yale is really
part and parcel of the
elitism of the Democratic
party and people like Biden.
More importantly though,
why he can't keep his hands off of children
I just don't understand.
Oh, there's hours of video, but that doesn't
matter because Brett Kavanaugh rate me.
Seriously, I'm gonna put the headline out.
Did you know he rate me?
This whole thing, this is a woman looking
for her Anita
Hill moment.
You know, this is her
15 minutes. Joe
Biden is really one
creepy guy.
It's interesting because when I was in
Rehoboth Beach, Delaware last week,
Joe trolls up and down Rehoboth
Avenue looking for
adoration. He wants people
to adore him. He has in the back of his
mind that he's a Kennedy.
Whereas in truth,
every single foreign policy issue
he dealt with as chairman of the
Senate Intelligence, Senate
Foreign Policy Committee, he was wrong.
No, no, he had a terrible job, but just
getting back to
this liberal professor
had said that once at a party
in high school, some drunk guys
jumped on her for five seconds
and then that was it.
And then now she says it's Kavanaugh.
Well, I want to be clear.
Kavanaugh rate me.
It's about as credible.
I mean, first of all, what evidence
does this woman produce?
Is there another witness to this
alleged assault?
This is a last-ditch
desperation attempt
to derail what is almost certainly
going to be another conservative
Supreme Court justice racked up by
Donald. I was about to say, I mean, this is the most
classic thing ever where you just get
any leftist out of millions of people
just to make something up
and then to get your husband to say, oh, yeah, she told
me about it six years ago and then it's a
done deal. This is crazy.
Well, and the performance
of Cory Booker
really takes the cake. I'll be honest with you.
I was working on a book on Cory
Booker called The Moth.
That's a name given
to him by Governor Chris Christie because
like a moth, he flies
to every controversy
with the press release, but he never actually
does anything.
Cory Booker is an incredibly corrupt
public servant and
I have a book coming out shortly
on Cory Booker that will expose all of
that. I was ready to leave him alone
because he's a non-entity and
he's not going to be president, but now
I think I have no choice.
Well, let's go to that last point, though.
What do you make of drugs saying we
can lose 60 seats? Well, just because
the polls showed Obama at the same point
two years in as Trump, those are fake polls.
Plus, there's this, the Trump
secret that a lot of folks that want to admit they support
Trump. Now they have the illegal
and the dead people voting. That's their secret.
That's why we still have a chance of losing
but only because of election fraud.
Well, I've got to tell you, Alex, I'm more
with
that drudge on this
including, importantly, the word
unless. The president
has not framed this election.
He's too busy
dickering with the New York Times over their
phony, anonymous op-ed.
He's too busy fighting over.
No, I agree. He seems to stop giving their distractions
attention. So what is the unless?
What does President Trump need to do
right now? He needs to say they're trying to overturn
the election. They're trying to kill the recovery.
They're the ones in league with the Russians and others.
They're out of the radical Islam.
They're the frauds. He needs to get on the super
offense and stir Republicans up into the same,
right?
Declassify all of the information
pertaining
to the FISA warrant. The way
Mr. The Phony Russian collusion
fraud
is to show who was cheating in 2016.
It wasn't Donald Trump and the Republicans.
It was Hillary Clinton
and the Obama Justice Department
and FBI. Mr. President,
we implore you
declassify the information
pertaining to the FISA
wards. When your advisors say
we can't do that, sir, it's a matter of
national security, that's a lie.
A damnable lie.
Well, the matter of national security is not letting
this rogue group of angry Democrats
overturn the election of the American people
and kill our recovery. He's got to
release it now. They're not going to stop.
Right. Two messages for the election.
One, talk about the economic
recovery and how great it is because
the mainstream media will not talk about
that, even though I think people are feeling it.
And two, get the Democrats
on defense by declassifying
all of the information
pertaining to the spying
on Donald Trump's campaign.
Yeah, he says he won't fire sessions
after the election. I think that's a mistake.
Well, I agree, but we're probably past
that now. So, talk
about the economy and declassify
the spying information
and you will change the whole
scope of this election. And the other
unless is this, Roger,
all of us got to get people to vote. We got to
be politically active. We can't be asleep
thinking this thing is one because they got a bunch of dead people
and a bunch of illegal aliens
set to vote and made your election fraud
with half the machines
owned by George Soros. NewsWars.com
Tomorrow's News Today. Roger takes over.
We're going to talk about
some of the important superfoods
and crucial compounds. Ultimate bone broth
will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments
while also supporting your body's
fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula
contains time-tested ingredients
such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder
to support your body. It's time to
experience what ultimate bone broth
is like.
This is a new version of a fan favorite product
today at InfowarsStore.com
We all know that the
outside toxins in the water
is a serious health issue. Infowars
is proud to sell incredible filters
but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something
to provide clean water for your whole house
with one system. The Pro Pure
Whole House Water Filtration System
is an advanced, four-stage
compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire
home, removing 220
plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to
install and maintain, and keeps
fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from
you and your family. With
its broad spectrum contaminant reduction
you'll only need this one filter for
clean and refreshing water
all over your home. Head to
InfowarsStore.com and whether
it's your first water filtration purchase
or you're looking to replace your current
run-down systems, it's time to go big
and go home with the Pro Pure
Whole House Filtration System today.
X2
we were selling it for about three years
and then they found out how big it was
and how much we were buying and they said
oh we want more money, more money, and oh this and that
and so I've broken my contract
and right now we can't get more of this
proprietary ingredient that goes in X2
that literally is so pure that
if you put in a peaker dish on top of 90 degree
hot plate it gasses
like I dream of genie and there's this purple gas
I mean that is so pure it just goes right
into your body when you take it. We're working
on trying to get other suppliers right now but
I bought a huge amount of it
ordered it six months ago
so I get the price down and I said
if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract
well I broke the contract last week
and so this is potentially
the last run, in fact right now it is the last run
of Survival Shield X2
and we've got a good supply
that will be gone in a couple of months. X2
if you haven't experienced it
m4store.com, if you have experienced it
and know how great it is, I suggest you stock up on it
it's available right now for a limited time
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
m4store.com is 25% off right now.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
