Forty-nine days, seven weeks out from the most historic election in world history.
Strap yourselves in, ladies and gentlemen. We're live on this September 18, 2018 global transmission.
I'm Alex Jones, your host in This Hitch, the most banned, most dreaded, most demonized broadcast in the world for good reason.
We've accurately analyzed the enemy's operations and charted a course based on historical understanding and the arc of human development, the new Renaissance.
The globalists want a new dark age, a technotronic era. We oppose the technocrats. This is the Info War, and it's all about the choice, the destiny you choose to take in the future.
The Kavanaugh situation is as political and as phony in my research opinion as anything you could ever imagine as plastic fruit that you are going to the grocery store and you reach over and pick up an orange, you say, that's not a real orange, that's synthetic.
And you look at it, it is just unbelievable to watch all this unfold and I'm predicting there's going to be a snowball effect of other women coming forward during the hearings that will be seen as the hammer death blow to this.
And then they'll never get anybody confirmed to the Supreme Court because you can always have somebody say that 36 years ago or 40 years ago or hell of 100 years ago, 5 million years ago.
You can say that somebody jumped on you to party drunk in another lifetime when you were Cleopatra. And we've all got to hear them out and believe it.
The lawyer says it's not their job to investigate. It's not their job to vet any of this. Well, yeah, it is. Anybody that's ever been involved following a planer, suing somebody or being sued knows.
First thing lawyers do is try to vet whether your story is provable or not or true. But they're already setting the parameters where how dare him say she's a liar.
How dare he, as I said yesterday, I have enjoyed the Democratic Party's operations is putting it lightly in the last few years and the things they do and the things they engage in and the way they get people to lie.
And so I know how the Democrats operate. I have experienced it. Now, maybe that prejudices me.
Maybe maybe she thinks somebody 36 years ago at a party drunk, groped her and jumped on top of her. They're calling that sexual assault and all the rest of the stuff from teenagers.
I mean, again, it's unbelievable.
But the really big news is always hiding inside the headlines and there's a chilling article from right bar dot com. It's up on info wars dot com 5.7 million in taxpayer funds for study to justifying sterilizing children.
Now, imagine that's a terrible headline sterilizing children. But if it's for gender confused, well, then it's okay.
Just like teaching five year olds that you might be a girl if you think you're a boy, you might be a boy if you think you're a girl vice versa.
But if it's done, oh, under transgender studies, it's okay. Developed by the Tavistock Institute.
These poor folks have the highest rates of suicide. It's just terrible. Does that mean I hate people that think they're another sex and go and have their genitals removed? Absolutely not.
Does that not mean that people throughout history have had proclivity towards the same sex or felt like a woman or whatever?
I'm not judging anybody. I'm saying in the main, the chemicals in the food and water. It's in all the studies and the push by the globalist is to reduce population.
And it's to get people to opt in to being sterilized and not having children. And they always juxtapose it. Oh, you don't care about, you hate the trans people.
And it's not going to be just men who think they're women or vice versa or changing their sex.
It's moving into the whole transhumanist movement where you can't criticize brain chips or forcing children to take them or the military to take them.
This is about the globalist taking control of human evolution into a de-evolution.
So that's coming up as well. Also, Beto, the big Democrat God of Texas against Cruz, says he will push a ban. Turn your AR-15s in. In Texas. Wow.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
50,000 unstoppable watts.
Interest and radio and the gun.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us on this Tuesday, the 18th of September, 2018. We are 49 days out from this incredibly important election and so much more.
We have right on time, you can say or watch by it, the accusation of sex assault on Kavanaugh. I'm sure it's all real. I'm sure it's true.
Of course, he's a big Democratic Party operative and a leftist professor and gave money to Hillary 10 times and the leftist causes 60 times federal election record show.
And sure, we've caught a lot of other women lying and even the police and a lot of files show up to half of rape allegations are false.
It doesn't matter.
Kavanaugh and no one else who ever gets nominated by a Republican can be on the Supreme Court because, well, we've got to virtue signal.
So we're going to be looking at all the latest developments and angles of that coming up.
Also, at the bottom of the hour, there was a big study out last week, which you guys print that for me again, that there are record numbers of suicides in America, not just of young people, not just of teens, but pre-teens.
Seven, eight-year-olds are killing themselves. And there was a big question, why is it happening? Well, I'm going to give you the answers. It's by design.
And we're going to look at it all at the bottom of the hour. This is critical information to you and your family.
Not just, oh, if you're feeling suicidal, call a suicide prevention hotliner. Sure, that's fine. That's good.
Don't get into a culture of death. Get out and exercise. Get the chemicals out of your body.
Realize what's going on. Don't let your children watch television all day. All the studies out there that it creates depression.
In fact, print me those. Just five or six studies. Pick the top ones. Just to show folks when we cover it.
That study show lowers IQ, causes depression, screen time, television, rewires the brain, makes you unsocial, and then that prison intensifies.
And then Sean Parker, the former head of Facebook said, we designed all of this to make you depressed and make you totally bond with the device so that we control and run your life.
It's a form of the matrix. See it as a face sucker that attaches itself.
And that's going to tie into this big story. 5.7 million in U.S. taxpayer funds for study to justify sterilizing children who are gender confused.
You know, I put the headline out for the live video feed on info wars.com this morning and said U.S. government spends 5.7 on studying sterilizing children.
It's worse than that. Let's change the headline. U.S. government spends 5.7 million to prepare the sterilization of U.S. children.
But they're doing it through liberalism and the school coming in and telling your five-year-old, you're really a girl, you're really a boy.
And then if it's liberal and LGBT, well, then sexualizing and sterilizing children is gorgeous.
It's now LGBTP. So I now have to more and more realize that when I criticized the pedophile movement and the movement to sterilize children,
I was going to attack by the major LGBT groups. So I'm not enemies with anybody. I'm a libertarian.
Well, then it means you've signed on to something incredibly evil.
And you've got all the leftists out there saying, oh, we are telling our boys and our girls, you know, to basically all dress like girls.
That's what's going on. And I know people, and my wife knows people that live in Seattle who dress both their sons and daughters in gray uniforms
and then obsess on letting them choose what they are, which instead means let the culture come in and confuse them and subject your children to super hardcore biological propaganda
integrated with the ambient chemicals and the water and the food to then push you in that direction towards self-sterilization.
And I've got all these articles in the U.S. and Canada and Europe where they're openly saying they're now teaching kindergartners in schools in Austin.
You don't say boy or girl. That's a bad word. Boy or girl. What sick, evil, psychological warfare, crazy, mad scientist freaks that they've created this system to go in and that we will accept
telling your five-year-old that they're going to be assigned another gender and confusing them and giving them Pavlovian treats and conditioning and carrots so that they embrace this.
There's so much to cover, but we really need to get into this because this is one of the big things. Don't criticize radical Islam.
Don't criticize open borders. That means world government. That means get rid of sovereignty so that no one can stand against the global corporate government.
Back by Apple, Google, China and absolutely teach children that they are, quote, another sex or no sex at all.
And then, of course, most of the children get depressed. They put them on a cocktail of serotonin reuptake inhibitors and it is just mainlining children for absolute destruction.
And it is a cult. And it's my view. These parents have been inducted into a sick cult.
And you can go back to the Tabistock Institute and the beginnings of all this and it's the total sick mainlining of people opting in to be sterilized for population reduction.
And all the studies show it's higher IQ conformist, but they're still conformist who will end up getting sterilized.
The third world populations are not being sterilized and it is basically a giant IQ reduction for the planet. It is the most cold-blooded plan.
I mean, if you were space aliens and had taken control of the ruling government and had a long-term strategic plan without firing a shot to exterminate a species, this is exactly what you do.
And what does Elon Musk say? He says he's been in the meetings where they discuss world government sterilizing everybody, having us merge with machines.
And people took him on the Joe Rogan show three weeks ago with me on there a year and a half ago.
And they took all the clips and put my clips next to him and they said, Musk is saying exactly what Joan said.
But see, when I say it, I'm a moron, because I said it first, he says it, he's a genius.
So next year's news today. This is the plan. This is the program. This is the operation. This is going on.
And when you criticize it, the stimulus comes in, the stick comes in, not the carrot, and puts heat on you to stop it.
Well, I have to take the heat as a man.
And I have to go through that for the betterment to expose this final revolution against our very biology to take full control of human reproduction, evolution.
That's their goal. It is beyond diabolical. The good news is when we come back, I'll briefly get into this.
The New York Times ran their hoax story saying that traffic to info wars was down by 50%.
It was a total hoax, a total fraud.
We showed you internal analytics that showed that it was a lie.
There's the New York Times headline. Alex Jones said Bansley's strengthened him. He was wrong.
See that? Total fraud, September 4th. Well, the big analytics firm came out, looked at him, media post has it.
Alex Jones wins info war, site traffic soars in August, fastest growing conservative site in the world.
Fastest growing site in the world of a conservative libertarian bent.
Yeah, thank you for spreading the word folks. Thanks to all the affiliates. Thanks to everybody that's been thanks to drudgerport.com.
We have stood against them. Now the test will be into the future.
And there's going to be more attacks on us. But right now we are getting stronger under the sustained attack because you have stood with us.
So you won't be seeing any retraction from the New York Times because it's their job to murder the truth. We'll look more at those numbers.
First we come back. The story was on drudgerport.com yesterday afternoon. It's gone now. It's on infowars.com by Paul Watson.
Maxine Waters encourages resistance to, quote, knock off Trump.
So our rhetoric is becoming more and more clear. Roger Stones issued an apology and clarification to Donald Trump Jr.
We'll tell you why. Who paid for Cabinon's accusers so-called polygraph test? What FBI former agent gave it?
Was it Peter's truck? Or was it Lisa Page? And then we're going to get into the economy and so much more straight ahead infowars.com, newswars.com.
Tommy Robbins is going to be joining us as well. Biggest exclusive interview in so much more. This is a big broadcast today.
Heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gussett Jean Company.
Thank you for joining us today.
Thank you for joining us today.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
This is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the real red pill, has quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including 3D extract and Ramon daily extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that real red pill has? It's also got the most edit. Get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Next segment, I'm going to break down something incredibly critical to you and your family and the V-Globalist plan to destroy your children.
They can't abort them inside the womb if they can't sterilize you ahead of time with chemicals in the food and water.
They want to absolutely take control of your children with a death cult, have them self-sterilize under the abusive tutelage of the state, and then make them depressed, put them on drugs, and then finally have them commit suicide by their early 30s.
After they've sucked every last ounce of their humanity out in the name of empowerment.
So we're going to be looking at all that in the next segment. Let's get into this right now.
And then later, Kabanoff, he passed four separate detailed FBI background checks in the last 30 years. Never had any accusers of any type. Again, it's someone standing in a community and their history and their MO.
Past behavior is indicative of future behavior and performance. It's the known indicator in the world.
It's like saying, how do you know that Martin Luther King was for black rights? Well, you know he was. He was for human rights, God-given rights.
And so you've got some leftist, man-hating, Hillary-worshipping person who a student says is very vindictive and hateful.
Hopping up at the 11th hour, 58th minute, it has the credibility and the floatability of a giant lead zeppelin of a bowling ball dropped off the Empire State's building.
But that doesn't matter to these crazed maniacs. Why, you just can't question.
Green waters encourages resistance to knock off Trump. How many of the swastikas painted on dorm doors and black churches burned down or crosses burnt in front yards?
How many of those? Or Muslim women having their hijabs pulled off in Toronto or London or New York City? How many of them are trying to be fake? Almost every one.
Info wars has done big articles on women that staged attacks on themselves to particularly blame conservatives. It's something they do.
But oh, to even question this woman, to even say she could be doing it for political purposes or remembering something falsely after she was contacted.
Oh, no, don't do that because it's a dirty man. And it's worse than that. It's an effing white male. In the words of AIDS Creelichs, you're an effing white male. You're not allowed to have any pubidians. No, you're bad. But he's a white male too.
So there's a story on infowars.com. Maxine Waters encourages resistance to knock off Trump. Congresswoman Maxine Waters is under fire for spouting more incendiary erratic after she gave a speech in which she called for leftist Democrats to quote, knock off President Trump, which is parlance for kill.
It is the garbage. It is the very meaning of kill. Well, let's let's hear it. Let's hear it directly from the horse's mouth. Here it is.
And with how great comes the up here, you know to find out who presented the first resolution for impeachment in the House of Representatives.
There are those who say, well, what if we get rid of him? Then we've got that nice president, and he will be worth us, and knock off the first one, and then go after the second one.
Well, we've got to use our power to block people like you that got tens of millions of dollars to her husband's bank that you stole.
If you imagine letting that moron actually run anything or Nancy Pelosi, these people have run the country into the ground. There are a bunch of power mad harpies, seahawks, and I love old folks.
But you know, you look at the average age of what a Democrat senator, it's like 75 members of Congress, I think it's around 70. I mean, you got a bunch of 80 something years old man on power trips, and they were always bad people, and they just get worse and worse and worse and worse.
It's fair to say that Maxine Waters is a rotting edifice to the rotting Democratic Party. She's the perfect symbol of these people, and it just gets worse and worse and worse.
And you got to love how Hillary thought she could really win, despite all our corruption. Trump won by a huge landslide, but their fraud was so bad, they stole at least five states that he still almost lost.
He won by a whopping margin in the Electoral College, but it just shows the entitlement of these ruling class elites, and the fact that the Democrats have 80% of the wealth in Congress. They are the rich people, they are the power.
And it's all the billionaires, except for Trump, almost 95% of world billionaires are socialists, because their tax exempt, they take your money, they get you domesticated, they think you're an idiot.
And people are waking up to this. People like Alexandra Cortez, she doesn't want to, you know, she wanted her parents to migrate here.
She wanted to get here, leaving countries that had socialism, so she can wear $3,600 outfits, while shaking her finger at everybody else, and talking about effing rich white men and stuff.
When nine groups of Asians are above white people in this country, as the richest people per capita. Asians. And if you weren't so ignorant, Cortez, you'd know, if you've got some native blood in you, that's Asian sweetheart.
It's been type tested, it's basically hun blood, or Chinese blood. So you are part Chinese lady, and you are sitting there in the most elite group Asians, money wise, and you're just an idiot.
You're an absolute disgrace. So she's part European, part Spanish, and part Chinese, that's what you are. You're from Latin America, you're Asian, and it's the Chinese derivation.
You think the Chinese just sat there in China, they went up over, through Siberia, over the North Pole, when there was a land bridge, into North America, following the caribou, following the whales, following the woolly mammoths, the mastodons, the food.
We're going to break, I'm going to come back to the biggest issue there is, all this other stuff is just a smoke screen, straight ahead.
Also, we are going to have to end the specials this weekend for X2, the purest form of iodine you're going to find over the counter out there.
Patented technology, very hard to get, very hard to source, and I'm not going to be over a barrel of the cost of it, running up and up.
So we're trying to develop or get a new source, and then we hopefully relaunch it, but that could be six months a year, who knows.
It's the last run of X2 in this incarnation.
So if you want it, it's 25% off, that sale has to end because the sales gone a little better than we thought.
And obviously, I'm going to end up selling out the rest of it at full price so we can fund our operation, but I'm going to keep the sale going.
98% reviews on power reviews, 6,000, 127, 5-star reviews, 4.9, nobody else has got that.
It's amazing, experience it for yourself and about the iodine conspiracy, learn about it.
There's a bunch of other stuff on sales, well, supermanual vitality and superfill vitality, 50% off as well, that is going to end.
That has to end as well. I want you to experience that. Cold pressed herbs, nobody else in the know of does that.
It's an age, it's just really proprietary. It's amazing.
I'm going to end up selling out the rest of it at full price.
Visit Verselmedia.com, V-E-R-C-E-L, media.com.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
Your minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
X2, we were selling it for about three years and then they found out how big it was and how much we were buying.
And they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2
and it's literally so pure that if you put in a pigger dish on top of 90 degree hot plate, it gasses
like I dream of genie and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago,
so I get the price down and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week and so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run of survival shield X2 and we've got a good supply of it,
but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, M4store.com.
If you have experienced it, you know how great it is, I suggest you stock up on it.
It's available right now for limited time.
M4store.com is 25% off right now.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter,
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water,
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance,
rallying Patriots worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The global social engineers know that the West's weakness is that we are open.
We are liberal.
We are not leftist.
Big difference between liberal and leftist.
I suggest you see the Prager University five-minute documentary piece on that.
It is Pure Veritas.
Speaking of Veritas, big, huge, deep state.
Breaking Veritas news coming up later in the broadcast.
We have Tommy Robinson live.
It was the second-only interview after getting out of prison, the political prisoner.
Owen Benjamin, a really funny comedian.
Also, it looks like he's a NFL center.
He's a giant.
He's going to be in studio here with this very funny, very smart guy,
censored comedian.
Look forward to that.
And Paul Joseph Watson to say this is a jam-backed transmission is an understatement.
Roger Stone with big breaking news and a policy to Donald Trump Jr.
pops in a Kavanaugh info next segment.
This is the most important information for you and your family of really anything out there
other than getting your heart and soul right with God.
I'm going to show you some of the statistics and studies here in a moment that go right to that point.
The Tabistock Institute in England by the 60s is a PR psychological warfare firm
that developed the whole trans movement to be the beginning of transhumanism.
Computer chips in your brain, genetic augmentation, cloned humans,
so-called humans that have three, four parents that aren't really humans.
They're humanoids.
It's about breaking down that barrier and getting humanity to accept the manipulation
and control of human evolution by the establishment.
And there are big university studies on this, not just Tabistock Institute,
but they were at the tip of the spear.
That's why England, more than any other country in the world, even Brazil, is second,
has children and adults transferring from male to female and from female to male.
And then they say, technically, you are a woman if you say you're one.
Of course you're not, or you are a man if you say you're one.
No, you're not.
Down your mitochondria, your mitochondrial DNA, you are not.
Women have a whole second set of DNA.
Women are actually the full species, and they've known this for at least 80 years.
Women are the human species.
And in embryonic development, we are all females, and then the female,
they are still figuring out how the switches works, decides when they're going to have a male,
and then they put environmental crises and other things that are going on into what type of male is needed.
So men are the warrior ants or worker bees of the species that is female.
And it's like that in many species.
So this whole thing that it's a goddess and Mother Earth, it's totally true.
And imagine the assault on that saying men are now going to be women.
No, we're not.
No, we're not.
Men are created by the female to go out and to build the civilization for the species.
Now, you take over the women, you've got the children, so follow the men.
Adolf Hitler said that.
80% of advertising targets women.
Why is that?
Because women have always been the real deciders, not men.
And that is why they are sabotaging and targeting women,
because if you have them, you have everything.
Now, they make the gay frog joke.
That was from PBS documentaries, frontline documentaries.
I just pointed out that this is happening to our children.
It's that it flip switches in the brain.
It flips olfactory nerves.
It makes males be attracted to males.
It makes females become hyper feminine.
It gives them cancer.
It's a fact.
So everything from democracy now to Harvard to you name it has documented this.
It is the reality.
And so how do you sell sexualizing children?
As they said in Brave New World, which Huxley later wrote,
Brave New World Revisited that was nonfiction,
saying this is the real plan that the underclass first gets hyper sexualized,
then the next generation we confuse sex and then we sterilize.
And so they're moving towards a genderless, joyless creature.
So the chemicals are in the food and water.
Now they're bringing in not just the environmental control,
but also the cultural push towards this.
Males are smaller.
Their genitals are smaller in all racial groups.
IQs are lower.
Girls go into puberty earlier or more feminine,
have bigger breasts, grow taller.
A lot of studies show with another 50 years women will be taller than men.
Because the chemicals in the food and the water are designed to feminize.
So you give that to a woman early.
They're going to grow bigger, larger.
So this is known.
It will basically wipe out boys, make them sickly.
It'll make women ogre-like goblin creatures.
Now, 5.7 million in taxpayer funds for study.
And there's more studies out today that the chemicals in the food and water
are, quote, making you fat, making you obese.
It's by design.
5.7 million in taxpayer funds for study to justify sterilizing children
who are gender confused.
It gets into the U.S. study in its fifth year with Dr. Quinton Van Meter,
Atlantic pediatric endocrinologist who trained at John Hopkins University
when transexualism was, quote, first studied, rolled out.
And they are studying to legitimize and push taxpayer-funded sterilization
starting at age 5.
And they call it a sterilization program, but they call it trendy and cool
and aren't you special, aren't you neat now?
But really, it's so you don't have children.
Again, how do you sell sterilizing the children?
First, you put chemicals in to begin to nudge you in that direction, environmental.
Then you put in the cultural stimuli.
Then you demonize anyone that doesn't go along with it.
Then you incentivize with taxpayer money to fund it.
There it is, sterilizing a child for a better life, the Atlantic.
It's the new sexy face of eugenics.
And if you look at Aldous Huxley's brother, Julian Huxley,
he was the head of the World Eugenics Society.
After World War II, he said, Hitler gave us a bad name.
We will now be the world transhumanist society.
Well, how do you begin the trans?
Men becoming women, women becoming men, becoming whatever you want, body modification.
I'm not judging anybody. I'm a libertarian.
You want to start cocaine till you die?
You want to jump off a cliff? You want to do this?
You want to drink Drano? That's your issue.
I'm not paying for you if you don't get the job done.
It's like I don't want to pay for your sex change.
Oh, you're hateful. You're hateful.
No, you are a victim of a cult, caught, brainwashed,
and now you want me to pay for it? No.
I'm not going to pay for your Harley-Davidson either.
So it goes into a system of already testing sterilizing children
and people having Drano dropped in their eyes by a psychiatrist
and you've got to pay for them being blind because they identify as being blind.
No, you're completely mentally ill, shaking attention.
You are demonic. I will not pay for you.
You pig-like creature who wants to put Drano in your eyes.
You crazy person. People that want to blind themselves go in rubber rooms.
They don't get worshiped.
You understand? If a full-grown adult person feels like a woman
and likes men and wants to take hormones and stuff
and then wants to do that, that's they're an adult.
I'm not judging them.
I don't hate those people at all.
I'm talking about children and the push of this and then what comes next?
USA Today, transgender people face alarmingly high risk of suicide.
Suicide attempt rate amongst transgender youth hits 50 percent.
Oh, because people are being mean to them.
No, they're being celebrated everywhere.
They go get on a bunch of chemicals. They cut their testicles and you know what off.
And then they're totally freaked out.
They're inducted into a cult of sex.
Almost all of them end up raising money as being escorts.
This is in the studies.
And then just like prostitutes have an alarmingly high level of disease and killing themselves.
It's the same thing here.
This is an abused brainwash group of people in the main.
Are there stories where people are successful? I'm sure.
But it's like joining MS-13.
It's dangerous and it's destructive.
And then I've got all the other studies here about the screen time and not going outside and record suicide in young people.
This whole culture is to be a post-human world.
They're selling us a plan to make women alone, women completely under the state's control,
men alone, completely confused and atomized and destroyed.
You'll let them go in schools and confuse your children and send them to the nurse,
not to get some aspirin, but to have their genitals prepared to be cut off.
You are sick and you are evil and you are a pedophile actually trying to rip their genitals off.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative,
InfoWarsLife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and Omega-3s found in our high-quality, ultra-pure Krill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s,
Ultimate Krill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other Krill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified, high-quality Krill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our Ultimate Fish Oil or used separately, it's time to see what Krill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil.
Now available at InfoWarsStore.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development, this formula uses wild anchovy fish oil,
ultra-purified Krill Oil and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfoWarsLife at InfoWarsStore.com.
Hey, how would you like to take InfoWars with you wherever you go?
Well, now you can do just that with the new official InfoWars ad.
And here's the best part. It is absolutely free.
At the Apple Store and Google Play, you can join the InfoWars today.
Check it out right now at InfoWars.com forward slash app.
It's the InfoWars official app taken on the globalist at point-blank range.
And with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
We're here with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
This is the first bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Coming up later, I'll get more into 5.7 million in a study on how great it is to sterilize young children
for the earth and for the environment.
And one of the suicide rates are exploding in children even below the age of 10.
Suicides age under 13.
One every five days.
Let's see an end.
A study of 500,000 teens suggests associations between excessive screen time and depression.
You need to get out of the house, ladies and gentlemen.
Screen time is making kids moody, crazy, and lazy.
Don't worry, we've got Prozac for that.
And meanwhile, raising kids with religion or spirituality may protect them and their mental health.
Major studies show that's even Forbes and exercise and gardening.
I mean, one of the best things I ever had when I lived out on the farm for my ex-wife to force me
was going out to the garden and planting stuff and picking things and watering things.
It was just, I could be super stressed out.
I go out there and garden for 30 minutes an hour and I would just feel totally zinned out and high
watering things and picking things and bringing in tomatoes and peppers and eggplant and cutting it up and cooking it.
I've got to get back out of the country.
It's just the hour long commute back and forth was killing me.
But that is something that's definitely on the game plan.
Speaking of game plan, it's come out in a major study I'm going to get to after Roger Stone leaves this.
One of the New York Times two weeks ago said, Alex Jones said bands were strengthening him.
He was wrong.
They put up totally fake statistics of some group I've never heard of.
Well, here it is.
Alex Jones wins Info War, site traffic sores in August, 32.3%.
This is not a media post and they got a big study that was done by writing group.
This is where the fastest growing conservative site in the world and in the top 10 fastest growing sites on the planet period.
So, yes, rumors of my demise have been greatly exaggerated.
Now, that said, there was a giant spike in his trailing off.
We're still higher than we ever were on average because of you spreading the word, but they are trying to destroy us.
So, this is a real contest.
Also, please financially support us with great products you need.
This is this week, the last week, 25% off X2.
It's the last round of X2 that we can't get the deep breath crystals anymore with this firm.
I hope we can bring it back, but it is officially a dead contract.
It'll take a long time to even get that thing going if we can.
So, get it at infowarstore.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
And while you're there, get a George Washington in his prime shirt.
Got him with a hatchet and a tomahawk.
It is made by and designed by the former, I'm not going to say one of the former leaders of SEAL Team Sex.
I'll just leave it at that here in Austin, Texas.
And all the great stuff there is produced by a group here in Austin.
And I'm not even going to say now the name of the group because it's a known group.
People don't know who runs it.
So, I'll just leave it at that.
But a lot of the designs are put out by very interesting, very smart folks.
So, infowarstore.com, we also have the new Trump Medusa T-shirt.
Oh my gosh, that is so powerful.
I need to plug that.
All of this funds the operation.
It's all the highest quality.
Without you, we will be shut down.
And they're only intensifying their efforts to shut us down.
Now, Roger Stone joins us for the next two segments.
Big news, cabin on, and so much more.
But first off, Roger never really makes a lot of mistakes.
When he does, he says it happened.
He was told by sources.
He's obviously right in the middle of the fake Mueller investigation with the big news.
That Trump's going to declassify the Comey and McCabe stuff.
I mean, this is just devastating.
Getting almost no coverage.
We're going to hit that too.
But, Roger Stone issues a clarification and apology to Donald Trump Jr.
Good news.
He says from sources now that he's not next up on the target hit list.
So, tell us about that, Roger.
Well, Alex, I reported here because I had from two solid sources that the runaway
special counsel was examining Donald Trump Jr. allegedly for lying to an FBI agent.
I now learned that my source was incorrect.
However, they are, I believe that Mueller is indeed examining Donald Trump Jr.
I mean, I like very much a true patriot because only a Trump member, family member,
would be able to, under the rules of Donald Trump's trust,
approve the payment that went to Michael Cohn to allegedly reimburse Stormy Daniels.
I don't think that that's a crime.
I've explained why it's a campaign finance violation at least.
But the point is the Daily Caller, everything from the Daily Caller to the Daily Beast said,
Stone says Donald Trump next for FBI lie.
I retract that.
I apologize for it.
That's the difference between Info Wars and CNN.
Well, Bernstein gets caught reporting a fake news story that he believes is real,
never retracts it, never backs down.
I made an error.
I went right to our readers and clarified it.
Well, that's good news, but we know they're gunning for him.
Now, expanding.
You were on Sunday saying, Drudge is right.
We're going to lose 60 seats unless Trump does this.
Matt Drudge is dead on.
I wasn't disagreeing with Matt Drudge.
I was just saying the Trump effect of a bunch of folks are scared to admit in polls.
They're going to vote for him.
I think that overpowers the rules since the Civil War, that the president who just gets
elected two years in always loses the House, at least usually the Senate.
I think we see a major political reliance.
So that may be countervailing wins, but you're correct.
Election fraud coupled on top of that, we may actually see the Democrats win the House,
which means certain impeachment and other big problems.
So let's horn in on the major announcement that's gotten very little attention.
Breaking Trump declassifies the set to do it.
Russia probe docs, including coming McCabe text.
Yeah, Alex, I think this actually relates very deeply to what we just talked about.
I agree with you.
There is a silent majority Trump vote.
There are voters out there who don't want to take the crap from their elitist neighbors or friends
or out in public.
So they don't advertise their support for this president.
Whether that completely offsets and explains these polls, I'm not certain.
What it means is the race is much, much closer.
Assuming all those people vote, the president still needs to have a winning message to take it home.
The first part of that, as I told you yesterday, he classified the documents and explained to the American people
the Democrats.
You've been harping on that.
And so do you think they'll even do it last time he said release the JFK unredacted?
They released them redacted.
Well, they reached them somewhat redacted.
But in this case, the deep states lost their argument.
They've been saying for months, Mr. President, you can't declassify these documents that would exonerate you and your campaign
because it would compromise our intelligence service methods.
Well, if they're abusing the process like this, I'd like to see those methods.
Secondarily, national security, national security.
There are no national security interests here.
The Obama administration ran an operation to infiltrate, to plant the full Russian...
Well, I mean, I disagree.
The national security is these moles that we have to dig out.
Well, he needs to release this under national security, which is what he said.
He said the interest of the public, the interest of justice.
I'm doing this because the FBI is belligerent and won't release it.
This is one of these situations, Alex, that at each step we're going to learn more that we didn't know at the last step.
We know, for example, that Andrew Weissman, the number two man in Mueller's probe,
actually was one of the deputy attorney generals that approved the extension of the questionable FISA warrant.
We also know he was briefed on its creation when it was fabricated with Russian intelligence assistants.
So the thick plottons, as they say.
That's why they're firing up the Russian collusion nominee back story
and why they create all these stories about the New York Times and Bob Woodward.
It is to distract from the crime of the century,
the hijacking of an American presidential election that was thwarted due to the popular will.
Roger, it shows he's taking the gloves off because this is a big deal.
They didn't think he'd do it and the word is those executive orders are imminent on that censorship and so much more.
I think them going after Cabinon with what I believe is a fairy tale right here on the 11th hour,
I believe that's going to trigger Trump to go into rampage mode.
You know, Alex, I've been in the American political arena for 40 years.
I've dealt with many, many, many, many media organizations.
As a general rule, they have a journalistic rule of thumb that you need two witnesses to cooperate and allegation
before it is worthy of publication.
Here you have a woman with no witnesses who claims she was assaulted
and here you have Kavanaugh who says he has no memory of this ever happening
and he has a witness who she identifies as being there and he says it never happened.
This is called a smear, a last minute smear.
This woman's politics are evidently far left.
She has a reputation as an eccentric.
I think this is a hatchet job, a silver bullet assassination attempt at this nomination.
I think Kavanaugh will in the end prevail but the fact that the media keeps repeating the allegations
without saying that they have no corroboration or confirmation is irresponsible.
Let's come back in a minute and get more into this but I mean come on 36 years ago
and then the guy she says as a witness says that nothing even happened.
Does he remember being in a party with her?
And I mean, and then she's a political activist.
I mean, this smells, man.
Yeah, it really does but it's not the fact that they tried this stunt.
It's the fact that CNN and MSNBC and other allegedly unbiased news organizations run with this as if it is a fact.
This woman has an uncoroperated claim.
It has questionable political motives.
Roger, it's like saying you raped me 36 years ago with no proof and no witnesses.
You're not my type.
It's prepostero.
I raped you then.
We'll be right back to talk about other women coming forward.
I think they're going to pull back.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for exuding properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfoWarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current run-down systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
Look, I could smell a rotting dead fish from quite a while ago, and this whole thing with Kavanaugh, two minutes to midnight,
and the whole background of this lady, and 36 years ago, and her witnesses, it didn't happen.
She has no witnesses, as Roger Stone said, is really incredible.
But just as night follows day, my gut tells me the Democrats have contacted a whole database that they've got of women that grew up in the area around Kavanaugh,
looking for somebody who thinks somebody abused them, has a memory, you know, you hear about people in false memories, whatever,
because people get attention for this, money, books, you name it.
There's an incentive to then come out, and if I was the Democrats and I was dirty, which I'm not, but I can look into their world,
I would wait till the middle of the hearings next week, and then I would have more women come forward, and they'll say,
see, now we can't confirm it, we've got to hear them out.
Because once everybody virtue signals, and oh, we've got to hear her out, 36 years ago, no witnesses, oh, we've got to hear them out,
oh, we've got to hear them out, I never get to face my accusers when Congress lies about me.
I think they're getting more women ready.
I just have a feeling, Roger Stone?
Well, look, I think that is entirely possible, but this entire proceeding did have a number of side benefits, for example.
It virtually destroyed the presidential candidacy of Cory Booker.
This man made such an ass of himself on national television that the political reporters are overwhelmingly downgrading his prospects.
This is a street theater, these are Linsky tactics, and now it's the last-minute smear, the big lie.
This is going to hang on the women Republican members of the U.S. Senate in the end.
I believe the pressure on them in their states is going to be extraordinary, but I still believe that Kavanaugh will be confirmed.
I hope you're right.
I'm just really concerned about the drip, drip, drip.
But when you get Sean Penn saying this is out of control, and Bill Maher saying it's out of control, and Anthony Robbins, I mean, it's epidemic.
Everyone's been falsely accused.
Who's a public figure?
It's ridiculous.
And it's just the go-to thing.
I mean, what do you make of Sean Penn and everybody saying, you know, this is unbelievably ridiculous?
You know, I think that most people have some reasonable standard of fair play.
It used to be that the Washington Post or the New York Times would not print something unless they had at least two confirmations.
This woman has come forward with no corrobing evidence, no.
And she learned this in psychotherapy in a divorce from her husband.
That makes it all the more suspicious, in my opinion.
She's an activist trying to get her Anita Hill 15 minutes and take down Brett Kavanaugh.
For folks that don't know, I'm not going to get anything in my personal life, but I know a lot of people have been in divorces.
When the ex-wife or whatever has a breakdown, I've read about this in newspapers, they get sent to a facility and then they, to make it okay,
suddenly they have all these memories and they become these big stars in these big group meetings because they remember all these things that happen to them.
I've read about that.
Yeah, look, it is very suspect as a matter of mental health.
But this is a political hit job.
I mean, they call me a dirty trickster.
I know when I see one, this is a dirty trick.
But you didn't do a dirty trick.
You went and got women that Bill Clinton settled with or had cases or had their cervix smashed in or had their lips bitten.
I mean, he's a famous sex predator flying around on pedophile airplanes.
You didn't go pay women to make stuff up.
No, but when the left is exposed, they believe that exposure of their actual public record is a dirty trick somehow.
That's precisely the point.
The New York Times, the Washington Post, the Daily Mail, they've all offered good, hard cash to women and to lie about me.
And all the women say is he's really a nice guy.
So, I mean, they're up against the wall.
It's what I'm saying.
It's really hard because most people are still very moral to get people to lie.
Well, you'd be surprised.
I'm saying on the conservative side.
Yeah.
Oh, I think, yes, I think, I think that is true.
All these wild-eyed leftists would do anything to bring Alex Jones down or Donald Trump down or the New American Revolution down.
That's why this woman's getting her 15 minutes.
Her kisser's all over television.
Isn't that really the point?
All right, Roger Stone, great job.
We'll be back with a very special guest in studio, Owen Benjamin, the band comic.
We'll be back with a very special guest in studio, Owen Benjamin.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
He's always been saying to see for yourself what it is that the establishment wants to hide from you.
And the information you find could be life-changing.
He predicted 9-11.
And if there was an outside threat like a bin lad who was a known CIA asset in the 80s, he's the boogeyman they need.
And this was a welly and phony system.
He exposed the cremation of care ceremony at Bohemian Grove.
He educated us about the relationship between the Third Reich and modern globalism.
He helped reveal the so-called Bilderberg group at all.
He was the loudest voice reporting on the union between the Communist Chinese and Silicon Valley.
They falsely edited him.
They lie about his reporting of Sandy Hook.
They lie that he pushed a child down in a viral video.
And now he's being de-platformed by Facebook, Apple, and Google.
Private companies are being harassed and encouraged to stop doing business with him.
And then we get hit and say, you don't want to use our software.
YouTubers are being censored for talking about him.
We just got taken down by YouTube. They just killed our stream.
Really?
Yep.
And some Americans are actually celebrating this.
This is America in 2018.
Will you sit by and allow liberty and freedom to be taken away right before your eyes?
Will you do nothing while history is being recorded?
Will you sit and do nothing?
Or will you do your own research, discover the truth, and stand for freedom?
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resist on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Well, I know why he's called huge pianist.
He's not just a pianist, he's a huge pianist.
Huge pianist.com, Owen Benjamin, had a big fan of him for years.
And he's more like a libertarian, in my own view, comic.
You see him all over national television, sells out big arenas.
Until he started being pro-Trump and anti-teaching five-year-olds,
or boys, or really a girl, or whatever, then he's become very banned.
I was just telling him about how we can sell out, you know, five, ten thousand people at a venue.
But they get bomb threats, and people come after him.
He goes, oh my God, and you were explaining the stuff you have to go through
and how you're such a banned comic.
But even Seinfeld and people now won't go to colleges or they stopped touring
because, you know, if you tell, and he's Jewish, a Jewish joke, they literally try to kill you.
Or if you're black and tell a black joke, they go, you're racist.
I mean, they have, I mean, there's no way that they could make blazing saddles again.
There's no way that those type of films could be made.
And it's just so un-America.
Oh, and the groups that they claim to be protecting are not the ones offended.
It's these little, this little group of leftist psychos,
and they would just call venues that I was going to and they'd get them canceled.
So now what I do is people buy tickets for a city,
and then that week we just email them where the location is so that way they don't get harassed.
In America. It's crazy.
Again, break that down.
I mean, they don't do that in Russia.
They don't do that in Europe.
Describe what you've got to do.
It's because I would rent colleges because I play piano and I'm like, oh, it's a place of art.
Like they want, they need money.
So I'd give them like a thousand bucks to have the venue and then I'd sell tickets.
And it was a win-win.
And then that week they'd always cancel and say, listen, we didn't know who we were dealing with.
We've had all these calls about how you're a racist.
And I'm like, what?
And then they just give me the money back and I couldn't do stand-up.
And I've had two Comedy Central specials.
I was on a sitcom for three years.
I've done Fallon, you know, Leno seven times.
You know, it's like, there's no amount of credits that you can get to keep you away from this blackballing if you against the narrative.
So now I get a venue and then I don't tell anyone where it is.
I don't put it on my website and if people buy tickets, I then tell them later.
But there's a huge market.
That kind of makes it cooler though.
Yeah. It's like a speakeasy.
It's like comedy is now it's almost...
I was joking about that last night in San Antonio where I was like, I feel like I'm selling drugs or something.
I'm like, yo, where's that punchline stashbop, bro?
I'm so sick of Samantha Bee.
And because people are dying for comedy.
So there's a huge market for any venue that just won't bend the knee to fascism.
Because the venues know I'm not that.
They just don't want to hassle.
I mean, I'm not just saying this.
I've seen you on Comedy Central.
I've seen you on national TV.
I've watched your comedy.
I never thought of you as a conservative.
I thought of you as funny.
Like, oh, I know that guy's face.
Even though I didn't really follow your name.
He got censored.
He's funny. I'm going to stop again.
But how did you make them mad?
How did you get black bolt?
Oh, it was...
I was at CAA and I was at a principal at a young like the two of the biggest management companies.
And CAA is the biggest agency.
And there was this guy who had a five year old who he was saying was a girl.
And I called him out by name like on Twitter.
I'm like, dude, that's child abuse, man.
Are you going to put him on hormone blockers?
And he's like, you know, we'll do what's right for her.
And I was like...
And my agent and them were like, you have to apologize.
You can't say that crazy stuff.
And I'm like, no, this is straight up child abuse.
Camille Pagli agrees with you.
Not going to come on this.
Yeah, because now that I'm a father,
I see that children just want to please their parents.
So if you have like psycho lefty parents,
they're going to be like, I want my dad to like me.
Daddy, cut my genitals off.
I will, sweetie.
5.7 million in taxpayer funds for study to justify sterilizing children
who are gender confused.
Now the public schools are going to tell kids,
and then they're going to take control of your children.
This is sick.
And now public schools in Austin are set this year coming up
to not say he or she, boy or girl.
In Canada, they'll take your kid if you don't respect their gender identity.
It's seven that they teach them at school.
So the perverts at the Tabistock Institute in the school confuse your child.
Daddy, I'm not a boy.
I'm a girl.
I'm not a girl.
I'm a boy.
They're going to put me on these funny little pink pills.
And if they, if you go, no, that's crazy.
Oh my God, your child's gone.
Right.
Yeah.
And so you dared to go after their sacred cow.
Right.
And then, and then after that, it was like,
because they never got into politics.
It's like, you can ignore politics,
but politics won't ignore you, you know?
And there you go.
And so they hate anyone with a line regardless of where the line is.
So if you just,
That's it.
Yeah.
If you have a line, that's all it is.
Because you see that with a lot of people in art or any type or you or anybody where
it's like, if you just have the will to say not that, you're out.
And people don't get that, you know?
And there's a couple, like me, me just questioning.
Call having a soul?
No, that literally is.
And I'm happy.
It's like people, that's why it's like the proof of life thing is so necessary.
Because they keep trying to destroy me.
I picked off Twitter for life.
I'm still banned on Facebook.
I should have announced that first.
You're one of the few guys like me that's been banned on almost every platform.
Yeah.
And mine was so early.
I was joking with Gavin about that.
Like, because there was, you know, you and Gavin were in this article and I'm like, man,
I was like nine months early on this.
I was like the sex pistols of this.
And it's like, because if they can't argue against you, they have to ban you.
And that's why I, I, I've developed a lot of resentment for people that don't stick up
for guys like us because appeasement just means you get eaten last.
Plus these people, like when you get banned or I get banned, they'll go, even conservatives
or whatever the lie was about us.
Well, I'm not for racist, but I am free speech.
And I'm like, you, you don't even get anything for selling out dumbasses.
And let's talk about that briefly.
I don't want to brag here, but they always keep saying that, you know, we're dead, we're
losers.
Here's the New York Times a few weeks ago.
Alex Jones said bans was trinketing him.
He was wrong.
And they put out a fake, because I have analytics.
We have Google.
We have it all.
The numbers tripled and then they're still like doubled.
So they said, I was the loser after they banned me.
The truth is they just had the big writing group, one of the top firms that looks at this
say we are the fastest growing site of any conservative site in the world.
And we're the top 10 fastest growing sites in the world, 32.3%.
And that's on their algorithm.
So Alex Jones wins info or site traffic source in August that came out today.
Again, the truth is they want to just say we've lost.
Other people go, oh, I better do what you say.
Well, yeah, because a huge amount of people in America, I call them zebras where they're
not, they're not evil.
They just will go where the where the herd goes, you know, because zebras, their stripes
are to blend in with other zebras, not the Serengeti.
So they're followers.
They're conformist.
We'll be right back with Owen Benjamin, huge pianist.com.
I'm Alex Jones with info wars.com.
Two of the most banned guys in the world and never having more fun.
Yeah.
When you use public wifi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords.
That's why I use private internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than
10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com.
And in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing anonymously and only sharing what you want
to share.
Visit internetaccess.com, it's time to protect your online privacy.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
It's a no-brainer, a Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
Or bigberkeywaterfilters.com, that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sown
American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans
offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com, that's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one
you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better
ingredients.
Ultimate Bone Broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, Ultimate Bone Broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric
fruit, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support
your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Another bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
All in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, for its last show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, for its last newsletter and give us your email
so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, for its last show, how they can download the
free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information
and coin out.
This is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
I'm Alex Jones.
Huge pianist is here.
Huge pianist.com.
Owen Benjamin, very popular.
One of the top comics really out there out of the millions.
Everybody's a comic these days.
Then all the big national TV shows.
And he's now super banned the last few years for saying, don't abuse kids.
Don't try to change their sexuality.
He's going to drive through the night to Atlanta to do a show tomorrow.
So he's also a hard working guy.
Talk about a long way to the top if you want to rock and roll.
Next segment, none of it's really that dirty.
If anything happens, we've got delays for our TV and radio stations out there.
He's going to do some of the banned comedy for you.
But in this segment, I wanted to get into this point because you keep getting back to this,
how great it is to keep your soul and be persecuted and how happy you are now.
This has even happened because people say, oh, you're a loser, Alex.
You're getting sued by this group made up stuff or they banned you on 30-something platforms.
The most banned person in the world.
They always defame me about what I did, but they never actually show what I did.
They have hearings.
Never show what I said.
Never face my accuser.
But the thing is, we're doing what we want to do to change the world and stand up for what's right.
We don't want to be the 99% that are followers.
But the followers, they watch what we're doing and they think we're losing and they ask me.
Law firms call me up and I know and they go, Alex, why'd you do that to Twitter?
Why'd you go to the hearing and say that what they said you said didn't happen and they banned you?
Because I'm not going to kiss their butt to stay on their platform if they're doing it.
I'm not looking to be kicked off things, but I'm not going to change who I am when they're lying about me.
Yeah, that's the thing that some people don't understand is they're like, why can't you just play ball?
It's like, because you either submit your free will or you don't because there is no playing ball.
Like when I got kicked off Twitter, it's because I said David Hogg wasn't old enough to tell me not to have a gun
and I referenced that he hadn't grown a certain type of hair that only adults have.
And so they painted that like I was being a creep and they like shamelessly were like, why are you talking about a child?
But I'm like, that's a phrase we all use.
And he's a public figure in a man's world.
And so for as long as there's been humans in every language, there have been men in the tribes.
When some little punk tells them what to do, saying, boy, you ain't got hair on your real head.
Until you grow some hair on your, you know what, in your chest.
Until you've gone out and made your bones, boy, don't tell me what to do.
That is a normal statement.
Yeah. And it's like, and they twisted it.
And then the same people are defending James Gunn's like legitimately weird tweets in their call.
Oh, please let him have Guardians of the Galaxy.
He just fantasizes about sex and hangs out with pedophiles and does, you know, these weird ass meetings where he recreates to catch a predator.
Exactly. That guy's a real threat to kids on a set of a movie designed around children.
That's a no brainer to fire that guy.
He was talking about gun control and just to see like how many James Gunn.
Yeah. It's like, how many people they made?
They made all these videos to resist people about me like talking about hog.
Like he was some sort of sex.
Oh, a God.
What's that?
I'm sorry.
When I criticized hog and said, dude, you've been hired by Soros.
You're being anti-gun.
They lied and said that I said he was a crisis actor and the shooting didn't happen.
And then they try to take down my YouTube channel saying you cannot criticize this God.
Oh, 100%. It's a sacred cow.
And what you get as a comedian, I'm drawn to where the flak is because there's truth in it.
And so I'm like, oh, if I can't make fun of him, then he's exactly who I have to make fun of.
And all the other comedians are like, just don't do this one, bro.
I'm like, yeah, when you take a knee, you never get back up and you're gone.
Well, that's it. Once you give it to the Chinese social score online,
people go, oh, just give into it. It's more, more, more, more.
Once they get you to start bending a knee, it's over.
Right. Because South Park talked about that.
That's why they had to make fun of Muhammad.
They're like, because if we don't, then everything else looks real mean.
You know, because it has to be that equal look at the world.
And I respect him for that.
And America is about not playing ball. It's about following your own gut.
Exactly. Exactly.
And we can't, we can't become Canada or England or any of these places because that,
because, you know, my family goes back to 1710 here and a lot of them died in mud
so that I could say what I say.
And freedom comes with responsibility.
And right now, the responsibility is take a little heat on Facebook
to say what you really believe.
Because if you don't, it just makes it harder for people like me and him, you know,
we keep getting banned.
If more people just didn't give in, we wouldn't be as persecuted.
But I have a significant suspicion.
Maybe I'll put my foot in my mouth right now,
but let me guess, are you at your actual shows and things bigger than you were before the ban?
Oh, yeah.
And my wife respects me and my...
Isn't that funny how when you were a real leader, people respect you more?
Yeah, because you're actually saying something.
It's like, I've seen a lot of these guys that have stayed in that dumb zone and the crowd doesn't laugh.
Like, I've done...
How much more, because I'm sure your wife already liked you, you're a good looking guy here,
but I mean, how much more sexy now that she knows you, she's got a real trailblazing rebel?
Yeah, and also how much sexy, how sexy she is to me because...
To stand up for you.
Yeah, when she said... No, I was doing tree work for a couple of months because
I lost all these gigs that were at colleges.
It was like what I was going to use to pay for our mortgage and stuff.
So you just ginned out?
No, my brother's a lumberjack, so I just started doing tree work.
I'm like, I'd rather do this than that.
And in that moment, she didn't want the shiny stuff.
You know, she was like, you know, I want our sons to be like that.
And I was like...
At that point, I really knew I trusted her and I was like, this is awesome.
So that's when you really...
They got that picture, that's hilarious.
So you and your wife synced up even more in the persecution?
100% because I knew she didn't...
Because when we first started dating, I was on a TV show.
So at that moment, I knew she wasn't...
I mean, I always knew, but I knew knew that she wasn't in it for money or fame or anything.
And that was awesome, you know?
Because she was just like, you're standing up to monsters and she's a good person.
And see people that haven't taken the step into that.
It's a bigger world.
I mean, it really is.
That's what America is about.
It is about saying no to the power.
It is about being an individual.
That is the cult of America and people need to step into that.
They have to or else they'll lose everything good.
It's like when people are like...
Like I had a book deal with like a huge publisher.
It would have definitely just been a New York Times bestseller.
And I lost all that.
And even my dad was like, why couldn't you have just like waited for the book to come out?
I'm like, because then you lose everything.
Like I can't change what I'm saying.
Once you get in that little timid position, then the sky's the limit.
I've seen it happen to so many strong men.
I even normed just to apologize on the view.
And that guy's one of my heroes.
You know, like, I'm like, you just see these strong men just fall.
Because they think they can handle it.
It's almost like an opioid addiction or something.
It's like, just a little bit, man.
I just got to get rid of the pain.
And then...
Oh, well, with me, they took a few stories and are like,
just apologize.
These weren't 100% accurate.
And then when I did apologize, even though I wasn't the creator,
that was what hurt me with my audience more than anything.
Was even though I did it because I thought, OK, I'll take the high road.
Even though I'm not responsible for this, I wasn't perfect.
And as soon as I did it, it was like blood in the water.
Then they just kept saying other things I never said and do this, do that.
But that's what the left is about, is poking people to have a conscience.
Because it's not about apologies.
It's about compliance.
When they say apologize, that means get on your back, dog.
And that's why I'll still apologize for things that I know are wrong
because I also don't want to be in the zone where...
And the apology comes from you.
Right?
It's a real apology.
Because I've thought about it.
I've been wrong.
And I'm like, if I just stop apologizing, because I know the left will then use it
to twist me, then my lack of apology is meaningless.
So I'll still apologize.
That's another form of control.
Because if you stop apologizing, because they've twisted apologies, exactly.
Yeah, you just have to just stay the course and try as hard as you can
and not be affected by it.
You have to go with the inner compass?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the move.
Because if you don't, it's over.
It's like, you're walking a tightrope now.
And it's only going to keep getting wrenched up and wrenched up.
Because free speech and self-protection with guns is how we maintain America.
Because if not, if you can't battle ideas with words, it has to be with clubs.
And that's a nightmare.
Which will win, but we don't want to go there.
Owen Benjamin, huge pianist, is our guest, infowars.com, newswars.com.
Next year's news today, when we return, we're going to get into some of the band comedy
that he actually covered.
But I guess they didn't ban his comedy.
They banned him because he set up for children not being abused by the state,
confusing their sexuality, which we covered in the first hour.
We'll be back straight ahead.
Stay with us.
When you use public Wi-Fi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords.
That's why I use private internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com.
And in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
Privateinternetaccess.com.
It's time to protect your online privacy.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At Heart and Body Extract.
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart.
Don't just take my word for it.
Check out all of the success stories at HBextract.com
or to order call 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305.
HBextract.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultra-purified krill oil and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 mg of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at infowarsstore.com.
InfowarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month. Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today, InfowarsLife.com.
It's Alex Jones.
Huge pianist.
Meaning huge piano. Huge pianist.com. Owen Benjamin. I'm Alex Jones. Tommy Robinson.
He's only done one interview with Tucker Carlson.
I've already been trying to get ahold of me since he got out of jail. They took his phone and lost his number.
He wanted to do our show first. I was like, where's Tommy? Well, Tommy, the doctor in the last few weeks.
Political president lost 30-something pounds while he was in there for covering a pedophile ring,
which he first exposed. Trial of little girls kidnapped and raped. That is coming up next hour.
Owen Benjamin likes you even better in person. You're an amazing guy.
I want you to get into some of the comedy that's politically incorrect at your big shows coming up all over the country.
But we were getting into this thing about stealing our soul, getting us to go ahead and compromise on that one little thing.
And then once you've done that, the whole door opens.
I mean, elaborate, take over in the segment because people want to hear you, not me, but you're really thought-provoking.
And then let's talk about the real avant-garde. Joe Rogan, undoubtedly the biggest long-form podcast in the world,
20, 30 million viewers per show. He's the new Johnny Carson. The system's scared of that.
And I understand him not trying to be political, but at the same time, he got there by being independent.
But then Pootie Pie, 21 billion views. They're trying to censor him. I mean, what does the establishment do?
What do they do when everybody hates them? But then the big tech giants control the Internet.
So if you're a maverick like Joe Rogan, if you don't play ball, they come after you.
I mean, this is quite a paradigm. And then examples of you being banned, me being banned, I think it's kind of a message to them.
Though Joe does say he's having me off at the end of the month, date to be announced. I'm ready to hear the date.
I'm ready to fly out there. So it's very exciting.
Yeah, it's like this silence can sometimes be very telling. And that's why it's very important for guys like us,
for people like Joe to have us on, to give a voice to what happened, because the silence scares a lot of people.
Like if someone's friends with somebody and they get demonetized or banned,
it's important that someone like Joe has you on to talk about it, because if not, everyone else is terrified to speak their mind.
And that's just one more, Joe's the perfect icebreaker to their attempt to bring in this giant chilling effect.
Exactly. When you look what happened to Norm MacDonald and Jimmy Fallon, Norm MacDonald has a Netflix show coming out,
and Norm MacDonald said something obvious about the Me Too movement, like nothing even crazy.
And then he wasn't allowed to be on Fallon, because apparently Fallon's writers started like weeping and crying,
and you know, Fallon's like, you can't do it. Yeah, Jimmy Fallon.
And so Norm goes on the view, I mean, Fallon will have on Hillary Clinton, you know, but, you know, Mike...
A woman who made her bones representing child rapists.
Yeah, and just a murderous...
I came, I saw he died.
Yeah, but not Norm MacDonald for saying a joke they didn't like, and so that's when you see the censorship.
Well, she repeats the joke, the Me Too one.
Oh, it was just a comment he had in people, he just was like, eh, I mean, at first they said 100, you know, 100 can't be wrong,
and then, you know, I believe every woman, and now it's like an accusation is rape.
I mean, and when is it, you know, just basic stuff like that.
It's like questioning the stampede of women just constantly saying, you know, he looked at me wrong.
Yeah, my joke about Me Too movement was that I thought it was the Pound Me Too movement, because I thought it was a pound symbol,
and the whole thing was about me being like, I don't know, you just got to see it, I guess.
But, uh, so the fact...
Don't understand, it says that.
Yeah, because it's, I'm like, I'm 38.
In my world, that's not a hashtag, that's a pound symbol, so it's like, pound me too.
Stop being so aggressively.
That's super funny.
Yeah.
Pound Me Too, the Pound Me movement.
Yeah.
Because like, you could really think of it that way.
But it's like the idea of women and men coming together, that's the whole species is dirty and bad.
Right.
Make the joke.
Yeah, just make the joke.
God, women, go have some fun, go climb a mountain, go whatever.
You know, it's all this neuroticness of the left raising these big skyscrapers, like you live out in the country,
and they're just like all these neurotic TV heads.
I think it's mental illness.
And the safest place for a woman is married.
You know, like, as far as being attacked or raped, right?
Like, the safest place is in a family.
So it's like...
Now you're going to say that mammals, male and female, male and female get together, that's crazy.
Yeah, so anyway, so Norm has to go on the view and say it was unforgivable what he said about...
What he said about having Roseanne's back and like saying that about the Me Too movement,
and that sends a shock wave out there to say, listen,
like, because the whole thing is they want to do stuff in front of everybody and no one reacts.
Like, Caitlyn Jenner is the woman of the year, agree or you're out.
It has to...
And it's not.
He's an ugly old man on a wig.
Right.
And every...
It has to be the thing that everyone knows.
He looks like a snapping turtle.
Right.
And he was even a woman for a year.
How could he be a woman of the year?
And then he says, I like women and he's got a horse weenie.
Yeah.
And it killed a lady.
Like ran over a woman.
Here's the guy.
A guy...
I don't want...
It's a family show, but a guy wearing a wig.
Did you see the article in England where the nurse got fired?
A guy in a beard with tattoos all over him comes in and gets up in the stirrups and says,
give me a pap smear.
My cervix hurts.
She pulls his pants off.
I wouldn't even have done that.
You're a dude.
She said the guy literally was like a racehorse.
She goes, sir, you're a man.
He goes, pap smear me.
Well, he didn't have a vagina.
Yeah.
And so the nurse says, no, that's mental illness.
Who comes in off the street with a beard and, you know, a giant proboscis and then a woman...
That's abusing that woman.
That nurse has to claim this is a woman.
Of course it is.
Yeah.
Of course it is.
It's like, Donald Trump is Hitler.
Now give Hitler all your guns.
It's like the whole...
It's radicalized subjectivism where nothing is real.
And like that guy was mentally ill.
But everybody else, it's a compliance training mechanism.
It's right out of Star Trek.
Like there are four lights.
Three lights.
Say there are four lights.
And until you...
Once you give up that will, you are now an arm of tyranny.
So the whole point is like, hey, I'm a guy with a beard.
I'm Long Dong Silver.
Now say I'm a woman.
Exactly.
And this isn't new.
This is every tyranny does this.
Two plus two equals whatever they say.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Like the...
Whatever I say.
Whatever you say.
Eight.
Well, it identifies as eight.
Say it or you're racist.
Exactly.
Say it or you hate it.
It identifies as eight.
You hate it.
Give it a hug.
Yeah.
And it's like, this isn't new.
Like look at...
Like Spain, they say survey thought instead of survey thought because they had a king
with a list.
But he made everyone else talk like him.
You know, survey thought.
That's why they do that.
And that's why others...
Spanish doesn't do that.
It's like...
No.
Castilian has a list because...
Yeah.
Every time I run into rich Mexicans, I'm wondering why they got a list.
And it's like a Castilian list.
Yeah, because they had a tyrannical king that's like, everyone talk like me or you're racist.
And so this isn't new.
It's how you control people.
And so I just won't do...
Like when you have any line, then you're a threat to the state.
Should I do that as a stunt?
Like go into the local hospital and say, I want a pap smear?
Absolutely.
And then say, how dare you?
Just say, that's the line.
How dare you?
If it's like, you're a man, be like, how dare you?
How dare you?
It's like...
I'm going to say, I've got a toothache, but I'm going to get up and say it's my butt.
Yeah.
Like I have teeth down here.
I've got a toothache.
I'm going to go to a dentist office and say, I want you to do a root canal down here.
Dude, because that's the thing they say, there's no such thing as gender, but there's a wage
gap that you can't prove with math.
You know, they're like, there's no such thing.
Men and women is a social construct, but they only earn 77 cents on the dollar.
Unless you factor in everything, then there isn't a wage gap.
You know, what's crazy is you're such a Renaissance man.
When we come back, we got a clip of this.
You are now doing weather reporting.
How do you do that without a meteorology degree?
Well, I'm passionate about the weather.
And also I have to pay the bills.
And so, you know, I played ball with the weather, but you know, that's how I stayed in good with the narrative.
Because let me tell you, this video we've got, this is only on local TV, but what was it like in South
Carolina, I guess, you were actually covering the hurricane.
This is coming up after the break.
Okay.
It's a really good one.
We got a minute and a half.
I keep interrupting. We got to get HugePianist.com, Owen Benjamin in here more often.
Anytime you want on, you're doing so many different things.
Tell folks about the whole constellation of your verboten work.
Well, you can just go to HugePianist.com.
That has everything.
Because right now, YouTube is YouTube.com, especially Owen Benjamin Comedy.
But I'm currently on a bit of a live stream banning.
But just hit me up.
We're doing really fun, really great stuff.
Hey, what's great is we're live streaming.
We're not just on hundreds of TV stations.
We're doing our own streams of millions.
We're watching.
That's awesome, man.
And as soon as my numbers started climbing, they banned my live streaming.
Because I had a video of Bonobo Monkeys doing it.
And they said it was porn.
Like they're not even trying anymore.
I almost started laughing.
I'm like, good for them.
They're just, they're just insane.
But what do the monkeys identify as Bill and Hillary Clinton?
Well, just the word, just the word monkeys now racist.
So you have to say, hey, hey, we're the M words.
Oh, there's a bunch of other new words.
We're trying to ban people on Facebook that sent out info wars.com.
So that's a new M.
That's hate speech.
How dare you?
How dare you?
Owen Benjamin is here.
They look very healthy, don't they?
Look at the watching on TV.
Bill and Hillary look like reanimated dog turds.
They're just hunting.
Look at them.
Oh, there's Bill and Hillary out there.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
We'll be right back.
That's infowarslife.com.
Fuelling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
Fuelling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com
you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
This is Obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
You've exploded. How do you think they're going to respond as the whole world wakes up to capitalism, populism?
There's a major political realignment.
Or do you agree with that? What do you think is happening in the world?
Well, that's an intense one.
I think that we have to face a lot of this backlash and a lot of these obstacles that they don't because they're almost operating on the Pleasure Island thing from Pinocchio where they become donkeys.
That metaphor is beautiful because it's like they become donkeys where they lose their ability to speak.
It's like, here, have some candy, have sex with whoever you want.
We won't judge everything open in exclusivity.
And then before you know it, they're going, hey, ha, hey, ha, like they can't speak their words.
It's an archetype that dates back forever.
And so, you know, I was saying off air, you said, show Pinocchio.
It'll be on YouTube, Pinocchio, Pleasure Island, Pinocchio, the donkeys.
Yeah, it's like, but life's still funny when you keep your soul, you know, where dudes like us say that again.
That's a great bumper sticker.
Life's still funny when you keep your soul because it's like a lot of these people that are now they gave into this.
So now they face no backlash.
They face no obstacles, none of it.
They're not funny anymore.
They've lost what made them passionate.
They've lost what made them get out of bed in the morning.
And it's legitimately sad.
I'm not even angry at a lot of them.
I'm only angry at the ones that still have their soul and they still see the world for what it is.
And they, and they're starting to bend the knee.
I just can't, I, I'm trying to explain to them like you're going to lose everything good for nothing.
For what, a different type of car?
For, for likes on Facebook, for retweets on Twitter.
It's a hollow existence.
I'll tell you an example.
I was like 14.
I was like, I was about 16 or 17.
And I had a buddy that played baseball with his older brother.
It was like six years older.
He was out of school.
He was a drug dealer and they lived across the lake.
And he had all these strippers at his house, everything.
And I'd go over there.
And I was like 14.
I'll tell the story.
And I was having sex like 22 year old gorgeous women and everything.
And it was, it went on for a few months.
And all of a sudden he goes, by the way, I want you to sell kids drugs in high school, ecstasy.
And I said, no, I'm not.
And then he threatened me and hated me.
And then that all ended.
So I kind of got on the pleasure island boat, but I didn't turn into a donkey.
Yeah.
Everybody has on some level a little bit, you know, none of us are just pure, you know,
hate the, hate the sin love, love the sinner type thing.
But this is what this is all I'm saying is like sin just means miss the mark.
If you were just trying to not sin, that's all you need to do.
Well, it doesn't mean you haven't done things that are wrong.
Maybe you had an abortion, whatever you recognize it's wrong.
I mean, in fact, keep rolling that metaphor.
And you're right.
And you want to be better.
That's all it like you lose your soul when you no longer consider a sin, a sin.
When you just say that they're reality subjective.
And what are these poor Democrats?
I mean, this is really who they are.
Yeah.
No, that's, that's what you give up.
You give up.
There's Joe Biden right there.
Look at them.
Eaw.
Eaw.
Wage gap.
Here, fade up the audio if you guys can.
I don't know.
This is one of the computers that does that, but I wasn't trying to brag about that story.
I, you know, I look back on it and it was pretty wild.
You know, like some of these girls are like super hot blonde.
You're sitting there.
You're like 14, 15.
And then later you realize it's because you were being corrupted to do something that
I didn't wouldn't carry out.
Then it's like, get your ass out of here.
We hate you.
Well, yeah.
When you're with a great or you really have a good relationship, you realize that if
you're just with a bunch of women, you never even get to know what a woman is.
You know, like I'm working out exactly.
It was very empty.
It's very empty.
You get the first 10 minutes of a bunch of great movies.
You see, you never, you know, you think you never, you never get to see the whole movie.
I think Shawshank Redemption is just about some dude who gets wrongly put in prison.
You know, like when you're with one woman for a long time, you really get to have that
intimacy and that closeness and the sex is better because you know each other versus just
this constant groundhog's day repetitive.
It's almost like a compulsive and then you're just stuck.
You don't realize what you're losing until you give that up.
You know, and then once you get 10 times better than ever was.
Yeah, exactly.
And it's like that leap of faith.
Like I think that my career went in a good direction when I was willing to give it all
up because of a principle and do tree work with my brother.
And then, you know, you know, I believe in God, but just like whatever force, whatever
you believe in, it's just like, okay, here's a better life then because you you're willing
to give it up first, you know.
Absolutely.
Getting a little bit silly here because they're going to say, Joe claims he had a weatherman
and it was it's called satire.
Yeah, but let him be idiots.
Dude, there was this one.
There was this one news report recently that said, I'm not even going to say it because
I don't want to say it.
Tell some of your band comedy.
Go ahead.
Well, no, it was, I was doing a joke about soybeans making, making like Asian people
not have.
It was like some stupid joke.
And it said like, oh, comedian Owen Benjamin obsessed with Asian genitalia.
Like this is real.
Well, exactly.
It's like if I said, why did the chicken cross the road?
It's like comedian Owen Benjamin attempts to rape a chicken crossing the road.
It's it's like knock, knock.
Well, no, exactly.
Like like two years ago in this custody battle for my kids, my wife ex-wife's lawyer comes
up and goes, look at this video of him as a joker screaming that he takes PCP.
And my lawyer goes, judge, we want this taken out.
He's being an actor there.
He's be it's a joke.
And then it's, Alex says he's fake.
Yeah.
When I'm in white paint screaming, I take PCP.
I'm joking.
Yeah.
Or Cobra commander.
Then they said, oh, I'm being fake.
Is if you can't switch gears.
Look at that.
Convict obsessed with Asian.
Yeah.
I don't know if I can say that word.
And Asian women insist he's not racist.
I mean, that's, that's like, I'm starting to enjoy it.
Like I really do.
Like that.
The voice of global Asians.
Like if you watch Japanese TV, all they do is make fun of themselves.
I make fun of rednecks.
I'm a country guy.
I go, I hate rabbits.
Listen up here, boy.
I mean, it doesn't mean I hate my family because I can talk like a redneck.
Well, the only rule in comedy is don't mock the helpless.
And I think the difference between dudes like us and the Democrats is I don't view minorities
as helpless.
Oh, exactly.
They're trying to tell them they're helpless.
Yeah, they're literally like, you can't make fun of black people.
They can't handle it.
It's like, but can I make fun of white people?
It's like, of course, we're the best.
It's the opposite of what it is.
Exactly.
I think I saw an article yesterday.
It was like, everything orbits the great right of being white.
And it was just this elitist statement, like the supremacist statement of it was like,
what?
And meanwhile, nine top earning groups are Asians.
Oh, yeah.
And it's just like, it's getting hysterically funny to me because if not, you laugh or cry.
And as they try to force us, and as the orthodoxy gets crazier in the universities, the media,
they're all one epic.
So whoever the most demanding crazy is, you know, saying, white or subhuman, they go,
it's true.
That's not racist.
At the New York Times, that becomes the norm.
But seriously, you're right.
You're now a meteorologist.
They're going to say, Joe claims a man and not meteorologists is.
It's satire.
Here you are.
Here is huge pianist.com.
Owen Benjamin.
He's now a weatherman.
This is absolutely real.
Here it is.
As we can see, a horrifying hurricane caused by Donald Trump pulling out of the climate
accords.
And also his tweets have caused devastation up here near Virginia.
This hurricane, this just in, it is a hizzocane.
Apparently, we do not want to assign gender to the storm because there's a lot of moisture
in the quality hand happening out there.
So it started as a category four and now has been downgraded to only a category.
Are you serious?
Apparently there are now no more categories of hurricanes because it made some hurricanes
feel excluded.
This is just as bad as any other hurricane or just as good.
No one knows anymore.
And that's why we have proof of Russia collusion.
This is the eye of the hurricane.
You got to be kidding.
Are you serious?
Are you serious?
This is now called the we of the hurricane because eye, of course, is exclusive only
to cis, straight white males.
So now this is the we of the hurricane coming in hard.
Look at all these scary colors, look at all these scary colors.
If there was any equality whatsoever, it would all be the same color.
Moisture and equality out here in the Gulf of something is the reason that this is even
happening.
If Donald Trump had just acknowledged that his tweets hurt people's feelings, there
would be no rain here at all.
The real question here is whether or not Donald Trump brought this hurricane to distract
from this super serious Russia collusion investigation.
Mueller was right on his tail when we see this hurricane come in.
And of course his tweets and his friendship with Vladimir Putin has caused devastation
everywhere.
And you can see here, Trump did nothing to move these scary red parts anywhere else.
Trump could have just been a little nicer and more inclusive.
And then this would not have been a problem.
This hurricane does not like to be assigned gender.
So hurricane may be a bit of a pigeonhole.
That's why it identifies as a his a cane, but let's just say she's acting like a bit
of a hurricane.
If you know what I mean, she's just out there causing it.
Apparently, I've now been accused of rape that happened back in a party in high school.
I don't remember any of it and it definitely didn't happen.
But now I may have to be fired or apologize or cut off my wiener.
If I have to do that, I will enter a tropical depression.
Back to you, Alex.
Very impressive.
And you know, we make jokes about it, but this is what they're actually saying.
Well, that's one of the problems with comedy right now is satire becomes reality in like
a day.
By the way, you did that right before you came on in five minutes.
That was one take.
So good job, my friend.
Thank you.
We'll be back in two minutes with a final segment with our guest, the huge pianist.
X2, we were selling it for about three years and then they found out how big it was and
I was, we were buying and they said, oh, we want more money, more money and oh, this
and that.
And so I've broken my contract and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient
that goes in X2.
It literally is so pure that if you put in a picker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate,
it gasses like I dream of genie and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure.
It just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it,
ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down.
I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done.
I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run of survival shield X2 and we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, m4store.com, if you have experienced it, I suggest you
stock up on it.
It's available right now for limited time, m4store.com is 25% off right now.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
Low War's Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric
root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your
body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
You are listening to the Alex Jones show.
We're listening to an infowars.com front line report, it's Alex Jones.
One of the greats out there, but a free speech guy, that's why we love him.
Big dates all over the country at huge pianist.com.
We were talking during the break about final statements here, we're also getting into global
warming and the rest of it, and you were asking about China and how big tech's moving there.
But how do you see this ending?
Because there's a surprising effect if you're big enough like you or I, where they ban us
and we get bigger thanks to the listeners taking action.
But for the average person, it's a real intimidation, it's a real chilling effect.
So how do you at a gut level see as the left gets crazier and crazier?
How do you think this ends?
Well, I think the crazier the left gets, the more anyone with a line will bail on them.
And someone that was a hard stance liberal five years ago could easily become like seen
as libertarian or conservative or anybody on the right, if they simply just say no more
after this line, and they're only going to keep pushing.
But the worry I have is Lenin used to say that you don't need the majority of the population
to be on your side, you just need the telephone lines to take over the trains and the phones.
So I think tech, yeah, I think that a small amount of people can do a lot of damage with
this unless people just what guys like me and you need is just if you like us, just follow
us where we go and support us because if not, it's it's it's over because we can be confident
we're alpha males, we believe what we're doing.
We're projecting confidence and we're winning.
But if people don't take what you just say and realize the war for everything we hold
dearest now real authoritarianism for the first time in 240 plus years has really hit
American shores.
So it's really up to you.
We're not trying to be confident just to make you feel good.
We're being confident.
But at the same time, if you don't take action, if you don't get involved, we could lose this.
Yeah, it's not about feelings or compassion.
It's about money and it's about China and it's about subverting like what makes America
resistant to a lot of this stuff, which is our freedom of speech, self protection, all
that stuff.
That's it.
They're taking our natural defenses.
Yeah, because it's about money.
Don't think for a second that these leftists in D.C. give a damn about they're the ones
that don't pay taxes.
All these big leftist corporations are the ones that are offshore and don't pay damn
taxes.
Yeah.
Bernie Sanders has three houses.
He's not going to let you know.
I have three one million dollar homes and a one hundred and ten dollar car I deserve
it.
Yeah.
And so just don't think because it appeals that that's what makes me so angry about child
abuse and a lot of this leftism is it it appeals to something actually good in people
and they make it horrifying.
Like let's protect little boys and cut their genitals off.
Exactly.
So don't question the school telling your son to cut his balls off.
It's love.
It's liberal.
Yeah.
And for people to think that's a conspiracy or whatever, A, it's it's coming if it isn't
already here and B, you can see it already with how they treat boys.
If a boy is acting like a boy, he's put on pills.
He's called toxic.
He's made to become depressed and suicidal and it's a really awful time.
And what if your child identifies as dead, put him in a woodchipper?
Here it is.
Five point seven million to prepare the sterilization of children.
It's insane.
What you see with the climate change denial is also it's such a contradiction.
Science is based on questioning things.
So as soon as the denial of something is seen as a heresy, it's game over.
By the way, you'd miss that and I don't blame you.
But the news said it was Trump's fault.
Put an article up.
Trump, it's Trump's fault severity of hurricane.
There it is.
I mean, they're actually saying I mean, it's like, like we just did a funny joke that's
now real to the Washington Post.
Yes, you can blame President Trump for hurricane Florence.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
You can cut your five year old genitals off.
It's liberal.
Yeah.
Because they're creating a whipping, whipping boy.
So when more horrors arise, we've dehumanized the people that they may want killed or
are put into gulags.
And here's what's sick.
I wanted to laugh when you did that great comedy piece, literally in like a three minutes
impromptu.
You did it.
You had the idea in our studio.
Right before he came on.
It's like, boom, amazing.
But I wanted to laugh, but I was getting a sick feeling.
You're saying what they're doing.
Yeah.
It's not funny.
But if you do it in a comedic way, no, I get it.
No, it is funny.
It helps us though, because it's like, more people will see the absurdity.
I do laugh.
No, I agree.
But it hits me at a point where it's funny, but it isn't.
So I kind of like go, Will Robinson cannot compute.
Yeah.
I know.
No, I get it.
It's a balance between horror and reality.
And we just, the only way around is individual accountability.
So each person out there just, that's right, right?
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula, or just want an alternative,
in full words, life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and
Omega-3's found in our high quality, ultra pure Krill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants, such as Azazanthin and Omega-3's, Ultimate Krill Oil
can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health, and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to
maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other Krill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the
benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified, high quality Krill Oil concentrate,
paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately.
It's time to see what Krill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil, now available
at InfowarsStore.com.
Do you feel right what you're doing here?
I haven't said a word.
In fact, someone laid their hand on the salt in the outside core.
Other people are swore at me and threatened me about my mother, and here I am being arrested
for saying nothing.
I'm threatened to behave.
I've done nothing.
What are the arrests you've got, Tommy?
I'm preaching the peace.
Apparently, I'm in sighting on my video.
Can you please, George, get me a solicitor?
Yep.
I want to suspend the sender to see.
He's so lovely.
He has actually done nothing wrong.
I can start anything like that.
Let's do it.
Let's do it.
All it would take is for me to go through his video, and see if he's not even set to
shout.
He was right.
He was right in there, boy.
Come on.
Shameful.
I just didn't...
It's this person.
He's going to sit down and talk to her.
Well, it's his second major interview.
Once he was incarcerated for covering a child mass pedophile ring trial happening in England,
Tommy Robinson joins us for the next three segments, and then we've got a big, exclusive
breakdown as well coming up on 9-11.
It's really good to have Tommy here.
I saw him go into jail, and he came out 30 pounds lighter, and the things he went through
were amazing.
And he's here today to just talk about the battle front, and the acid attacks, and the
stabbings, and the shootings, and the bombings that we see happening constantly, and the
attempts to outlaw exposing radical Islam, something he, 12 years ago, is a business
owner, a small town in England, saw happening.
So Tommy, it's really great to have you here, and I know you've gone through a lot, already
put in jail for a year before for exposing this, put back in for three months, and I
know you've literally got PTSD from it.
And we're all really, really proud of you, my friend.
Yeah, Alex, I'd like to tell you the opportunities, and that's the first time I've come back
on, but to thank you, and to thank all of your, all of your watches, and the campaign,
to thank there was a movement that was created from my arrest, which is the, I took, I took
satisfaction at that whilst I was in prison, because I know that the reason they do this,
or the reason they've done this, it's a silence, and to stop the debate, and to stop us raising
some concerns, and seven minutes, that video you just played then, seven million people
end up watching that, in the next, in the next 48 hours from when I was arrested.
So yeah, I sat in prison, and I received mail, so much mail, so much support, and I know
many, many of the comments were commented on the support you'd shown me, Alex, and your
show had shown me, so thank you personally for that.
No, I want to thank the listeners now, again, Tommy, you never talk about yourself, but
begin at the beginning, with what you witnessed, what you saw, why you went public, why you
saw the men grooming the young girls, I mean, I see the headlines where they say, you know,
14-year-old girl had sex with 100 men in captivity, no, she was raped, so there's just, it says
Asian men, no, it's not Chinese, or Japanese men, it's not Vietnamese men, they're not
doing that, they have honor on average, it's Islamic men, and that's the whole culture,
so I see these headlines, even have a clip of that, it makes me particularly sick, so
just start wherever you want, because this is your big global second interview after
Tucker Carlson, and you've taken well, you mean to rest, so wherever you want to go with
this, go with it.
So the level of rape, the level of abuse, this isn't just sexual gratification for the
men doing it, they are literally doing everything they can to destroy the victim, to torture
the victim, they are, and this has gone on, I think there's, in every single town city
in the UK that has an Islamic community, there are these rape squads, and the word used in
Britain is grooming, which sounds like something cute, doesn't it, grooming, but you're grooming
your dog, this is actually a rape jihad by an invading army, now what these men do to
some of these victims, if I just talk to you about some of the cities, in one of the cities
in the north of England, they took a young 12 year old girl, and they stuck a claw, when
they got her pregnant through repeated rapes, they took her to a field, and they put a claw
hammer up inside her to give her an abortion, they have taken young girls and put their
tongues on tables and put nails through them, they have branded young 11 year old children
where they've heated up iron rods with the letter M and they've stoned it on their bum
because that 11 year old girl was the property of Mohammed, now during all of this, families
whose children have become victims have gone to the police, they've gone to the authorities,
they've cried and they've begged for help, rather than getting help, now these stories
when you read them, and finally when we first started talking about this a decade ago, we
were branded as extremists and racists and people simply did not want to believe it,
now we have government reports and government investigations that show and expose the truth
in all of this, we've had young fathers, two of their daughters are in a house with a dozen
Muslim men, their daughters are 12 and 13 years old, the fathers have got together and
they've gone to get their girls back, the police have turned up, they arrested the dads,
they leave the girls, so this has gone on from one end of our country to the other and
only since 2010, since 2010 there was a journalist who worked for the Times newspaper who actually
openly admits that he had been told a decade before, he had had all the information a decade
before about these gang rates of young children, but only when he saw us who he branded as far
right, only when he saw us march in the country did he then think we have to take this back,
this issue back from the far right, so he didn't think young children are being raped
by gangs of men, we must stop it, the only time he acted, and this is his own words,
Andrew Norfolk his name was and people talking our country like he should have a knighthood
for exposing it, the truth in his own words, he only began to deal with it because he saw
the marches of people he didn't like the look of, who he described as far right, and by
what I say is don't like the look of what he meant was young working class men, and
the reason we were marching was because we know it's happening to all of our daughters
and our sisters in our communities.
And let's go back to that moment because you literally one of the main leaders in Europe
now even beyond Nigel Farage, true working class patron, successful tanning salon, everything,
I know your stories repeated, you're watching them load little girls in cars with men to
rape them, you talk to the girls later, and you start kicking their asses, first you call
the cops, nothing happens, and the same thing, I see somebody loading 10 year old 12 year
old girl in, who's crying, I'm gonna beat the hell out of them, they banned me saying I'm
being abusive, no, a man standing up for little girls is not abusive, I see a pedophile picking
a girl up, I'm gonna break their goddamn jaw, excuse me.
Do you know how far back this goes, Alex?
So if you look at the Sikh community in the UK, now the Sikh community who have come here,
embraced our culture, embraced our identity, worked hard, business owners, never a threat
to our nation, their daughters were being targeted in a similar fashion, and they had
to set up a gang, this is all documented, they had to set up a gang in the 1980s called
Shilapanjar, SP, where Sikh men, so even up till two years ago, 19 Sikh men were put in
prison, they were put in prison for going and defending their daughters, and the media
always played this down.
Stay right there, the cuckolding on the left, sacrificing our daughters on the altar of
Islamic right gangs, their favorite fetish, we'll be back.
It's a no-brainer, a Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon, get the original, most trusted name in gravity
water filtration, Big Berkey, and now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using
code GCN, call or click 1-877-99-BERKEY or bigberkeywaterfilters.com, that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place,
and what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in, go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the US.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At Heart and Body Extract, we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart.
Don't just take my word for it, check out all of the success stories at hbextract.com
or to order call 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, hbextract.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature, expand your horizons with
the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos on the market at slingbo.com.
Slingbo products are compact and models start from just $17.98.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbo, a new frontier in
archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill, only at slingbo.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your
body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using it for a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into
a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with
Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Infowar to fight the globalist and limit a free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
at InfowarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Infowar
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfowarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfowarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
a real man so he's not talking about what happened to him but we need to get into
that to realize the persecution going on but imagine a Hollywood movie where a gentleman
12, 13 years ago sees little girls being trafficked, says that Muslim men are organizing them,
they never say Muslim, they always say Asian, organizing them into these rape groups and
then it starts happening, it starts being proven it's happening and like Domino's, thousands
per town and the government and then the Asian men organizing, the Muslim men organizing
the girls for sex, you got the white guys coming in, others having sex with them, this
is the known pedophilia of the UK, it's just the religion of the elite over there and so
they tried to mentally destroy him and all the things they did so I want to get back
into his awakening and what he saw and how vindicating it is that this has all been
proven right but also arresting him for not even going in the trial but saying see I'm
right there's a giant pedophilia trial happening in there and using these new anti-free speech
laws to do it because Tommy I want you to have the floor of the next two segments, you
can finish up with what woke you up, what you saw, what you've been through, you've
been to prison repeatedly for exposing this but then getting into what happened to you
currently and then the big question next segment, where do you go from here because
I know you're a brave guy, you were telling me you plan all these marches and stuff and
I'm like man you're a major leader now, people really respect you and it's putting your
skin in the game is why they respect you but and being right is why they respect you but
have some caution here because they want to kill you as you experience in those months
where you lost 30 pounds so Tommy just wherever you want to take this interview you're in
control now.
So basically these gangs were operating freely for 30 years and our country witnessed the
conspiracy of silence from police leaders, community leaders, religious leaders to facilitate
this rape and what's come out in the reports is the reason, the reason why the police didn't
act, the reason why social services, the organisations put in to protect children, the reason why
they allowed, they actually allowed when you read the reports, they allowed gangs of men,
Muslim men to come and pick the children up from care homes, sit outside in their car
picking 12 year old children up, take them away for three or four days and drop them
back in a dishevelled state and no one bought justice or no one bought to do something.
Anyone in a position of power who tried to whistle blow and identify these problems was
quickly sidelined, fired and targeted.
Now this went on across our whole country, the two major cities that people hear about
across the world is Roverum where 1,400 young children were identified through a charity.
So these are just the children that this one charity dealt with during the 20 year period.
So 1,400 children, the number way exceed that.
Now in Roverum there are only three and a half thousand Muslim men.
Now when you read the reports of how many people were raping these girls, you can ask
yourself, so in Roverum as a Muslim population of, I think about three percent, many other
towns and cities in the UK have Muslim populations of 30 percent, yet the government have refused
an area called Keithley near Bradford, which is a predominantly Muslim area.
Now the government have refused to do a similar style report in any of those largely Muslim
areas.
The only areas they've done it is where there's not many Muslims, another city called Telford
where I think there's been three or four victims have been murdered, their families
have been set on fire when they tried to speak out.
There was a thousand young girls identified in Telford.
There's not many Muslims in Telford either.
So if you see the size of the problem in the two cities that have looked at, which doesn't
have a large Muslim population, you can only begin to imagine the size and the proportion
of how many children have been destroyed in all the other major towns and cities.
In my hometown of Luton, the police have just in the last three months made 26 arrests back
in for a child gang rape and grooming in an area of the town that we've all told them
for years it's going on.
A certain park called War Down Park and Pope's Meadow Park, an area that we've been telling
them it's happening only now they started making arrests.
But this is I've traveled the country for the last 10 years, meeting victims families.
One of the conversations I had with a father from, let's just say the Northwest from the
northwest of England, his daughter was taken and the Muslim male took his daughter, would
ring the dad.
So he'd go to the police, they'd do nothing, he'd ring the girl's dad and whilst him and
his father, so you have the Muslim male and then you have his father with him, our gang
are raping this young child whilst ringing the victim's dad, an English man, and leaving
the phone on the side and commenting and talking to him whilst they're facing people.
Let me bring this up because we've seen the Swedish videos and everything where they rape
the little girls and videotape it as a celebration because you are not a Muslim, it is an act
of jihad to rape the girl.
It's actually, what we tried to explain in this country was this is actually the first
time ever, we've had huge people gangs and there's many within Westminster, but this
was the first sort of gang related phenomenon where brothers, cousins, brother-in-law, fathers
and sons would share the victims and where when this gets exposed rather than their family
and their community be disgusted with them, they defend them, they defend them, well let's
expand on this though, let's expand because harems and all this and sex slavery is the
big Islamic thing, it's the big business, they invaded Europe to get women slaves, that's
what the Crusades were to counter that, in fact it was quote to save our women, to save
our God, to save our crown, to save Christ, to save our children, to save our country,
that's what this has all been about and so why is the left allied with this, A and then
B Tommy, what are they doing now as it all comes out because now it's everywhere and
you now see vigilantes fighting back, all the rest of it.
Well I've also spoke to other communities, Hindu communities and Sikh communities to
hear the stories of the rapes against their daughters and in each scene, in every single
attack that the rapists, the Muslim men, make comments about the girls religion, so the fact
that she's Sikh, the fact that she's Hindu.
Now we hear so much in this country about hate crime, we hear so much about saying bad
things on Twitter or Facebook, here we have gangs of men who every single court case,
you hear the victim was called a white English slag, the victim was called a kafar, religiously
race-related motivated rapes, yet none of them have ever been charged with any hate
crime. Now with regards to hate crime in the UK and some of these attacks in one small
town.
Tommy, Tommy you're on fire here and I had Owen coming in to announce a big thing with
his army but he'll have to segue a little bit in the next hour, we have Paul Joseph
Watson on, I'm at an old hour with you, this is too important because I want to get into
you though and what a champion, this guy will not talk about himself, tortured in jail for
a year, they tried to kill him, put back in for three months and he won't talk about himself,
his website, nothing, and they're threatening to come and attack his family at their home,
I mean he has had to, I mean it's the real deal folks, we talked about him before he's
gone through, this guy's gone through even more.
Let's talk tough, let's talk comfort, let's talk about down home value, made in the USA
blue jeans, like you wore as a kid, remember, there's a place down in Tennessee where they
make blue diamond gusset jeans, they so pride in every stitch, guarantee you love the way
they fit, they put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most, blue diamond
gusset's got it, others don't, we're good old fashioned comfort, get diamond gusset
jeans, every stitch guaranteed and our Defender motorcycle jean comes Kevlar reinforced, see
them at gusset.com, that's gusset.com or call 888-848-7738, that's 888-848-7738, diamond
gusset jeans got it, others don't, X2, we were selling it for about three years and
then they found out how big it was and how much we were buying and they said oh we want
more money, more money and oh this and that and so I've broken my contract and right now
we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2 that literally is so pure
that if you put it in a peaker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate it gasses like I dream
of genie and it's purple gas, I mean that is so pure it just goes right into your body
when you take it, we're working on trying to get other suppliers right now but I bought
a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago, so I get the price down and I said if
you don't lower it I'm done, I'm breaking the contract, well I broke the contract last
week and so this is potentially the last run, in fact right now it is the last run, there's
Vivalshild X2 and we've got a good supply but it'll be gone in a couple of months, X2
if you haven't experienced it, infowarstore.com, if you have experienced it, I suggest you
stop up on it, it's available right now for a limited time, infowarstore.com is 25% off
right now.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from infowars.com, when you spread the videos
you are changing the world, it's you that has defeated Hillary and the globalist, it
is you, the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world
and that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word,
you are the info warrior and now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important
than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking
news, intel you name it and so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles,
to share the videos, to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, the bare
minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter,
we are the renaissance and we are winning.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life, our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin, knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep, millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace, our natural mixture
harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you
need, wake up refreshed and take on the day, info wars life wants to bring you a sleep
support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price,
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout, head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue that's infowarslife.com you're listening to the alex jones show
the alex jones show because there is a war on for your mind
all right i just went on during the break and i said to tommy i said listen you need
to talk about yourself okay you can't get him to do it and if they made a movie about
tommy robinson because i remember hearing about him like 12 years ago this guy exposing
rape gangs english defense league he's a racist he wasn't and they brought in racists he left
the league he works for the ceaks and others you don't have ceaks and i know the statistics
one of the lowest crime rates in the world they got formed hundreds of years ago because
islamists is trying to kill them in india the hindus they're not doing anything i mean
okay hindus are kind of like texans maybe they don't pay their income tax but that's
about it so so yeah but but you know it's not even about the genetics is a lot of these
Arabs have similar genetics to ceaks or people in india it's that it's the culture it's what
mohammed did does that mean i want to have war with islam no but they've got 1.8 billion
people they're about to be 3 billion middle of the next decade the globalists have made
their bet on them and this whole plan to repopulate europe with islamists and then we're supposed
to just die and give ourselves over so tommy i want to get back into what's happening but
you've already proven it i know you just can't be stopped to warn about the girls being raped
and kidnapping because you've got a bunch of children i know and then they've been threatened
with ass attack you don't want to get into that but talk about just what you've been
through in like a five minute gestalt how it began the year in prison taking your house
uh so three months losing all the weight then putting you by the mosque in the jail then
throwing feces on you and then and then again now you got a court date i don't know what
you can get into on air i know the inside baseball uh they're wanting you to say certain
things that they might send you back so i want you to be very careful here because the world's
listening they admire you they support you because you are the real deal but we need
to focus on tommy tommy tommy robinson online tommy robinson dot online twitter for an hour
they banned you there yet t robinson new era i'm gone mate i'm banned off twitter that's
right so we can't go there where are the best places to contact you first and because everybody
is going first and then and talk about yourself talk about yourself so from from when i first
started activism within the first six months my house my parents houses were raided by
the police three times this become a common thing over the years that continues and go
back to the town what you were witnessing so we were holding demonstrations and we were
highlighting these issues now the same police force that just imprisoned me outside the
court case in leeds when we first started i organized the demonstration in that police
force south yorkshire police force is the police force that's come out and been proven
as hiding all of these problems now when i first come to their borough i didn't turn
out a lot of departments some of the leading cops are involved in the pimping some of the
leading cops we've had a muslim police officer who was actually killed in an accident who
was part of it we've seen in this south yorkshire area i organized a demonstration to come and
talk about these issues but at the time these issues were not exposed and the police as
a result of that raided arrested me at the airport raided my wife's house with machine
guns raided my mum and dad's house put me on false charges that meant i couldn't
associate with the organization i'd formed my bail conditions made sure i couldn't enter
their entire area so they prevented me from holding a demonstration they prevented me
from talking about these issues once the day had gone past of our demonstration they just
dropped all the charges i actually have it from 10 years ago in black and white writing
from an independent police investigation where i put in a complaint that the police accepted
what they done was politically motivated they accepted the reason they done it was to silence me
and they sent their police officers on training courses now so you were politically persecuted
fast forward to your year in prison your three months and now what you're facing because you
may be thrown back in yeah fast forward to so that that has been a common theme over 10 years
if we get to the most recent case the most recent case i went to the city of leeds in fact i still
have to be careful now because there's still condition on this case basically when i went
there that there's a there's a court trial going on um involving 31 people now all the information
i'm about to tell you now which is the whole reason why i'm still arguing my my innocence
all this information is in the public domain now when you read the law the law clearly states
a judge has no power to put reporting restrictions on any information it's already in the public
domain now what we've witnessed on the last on the last six or seven big muslim rape trials
that these reporting restrictions are put in place at the very start and they state
that there could be no reporting on this case whatsoever okay out so then if there was reporting
then you'd be getting the details each day of what the men said to the girls the comments they made
and the horrific abuse that these children have suffered including even even mainstream news admits
a lot of dead girls yeah plenty of dead girls what plenty of dead girls plenty of plenty of
girls who've never been found their bodies have just never been found and let's be clear we're
hearing about Brett Kavanaugh with no witnesses 20 36 years ago jumping on a girl at a party
and the same scumbag leftist media here covers up all the crap going on here against women and
again i'm sick of people claiming they care about women i have a wife i have three daughters i
particularly care about women as an instinctive level and it enrages me to watch the left and
their obsession with abusing women and then defending radical Islam well and their obsession
with the the me too movement when i hear so many comments about someone said something sexist or
a massive deals made out of the fact that someone made a comment and i think we've got children dying
children missing being raped by their thousands in every single town and city and you're silent
and you're not just silent but you actually go out of your way journalists in this country
not one of them have challenged these reporting restrictions so these restrictions are put in
place so you could have a trial that lasts two months and you will not hear anything and then
when the trial finishes they'll lift the reporting restriction and you'll get one day of news 30
men have been convicted for raping young girls that's it you won't hear the the details you won't
hear the ins and outs which for every other why does the left cover up for Islam from Sweden to
England to the US and the mass raping and killing of women the whole thing of radical Islam and
its orthodoxy is enslaving women and they're subhuman that's a fact why is the left in love
with the true satanic patriarchy well many of the time as we've heard from the previous journalists
who knew this was happening andrew norfolk but he only acted when he saw the far right or the
working class were making an issue out of it i think many journalists despise us that much
despise the working class that much despise their own country that much and then it depends
it depends on newspapers you look into for where the money comes from if you look at the daily
mirror we see the Saudi influence sure it's a sick form of cuckolding it's like funny the working
class are getting their daughters sold into slavery by the muslims well they're certainly not um
they're certainly not what they actually do they run stories about how people are racist or extremist
when they march over in fact but now it's all come up so so let me ask you this now that it's
all coming out what are they going to do because they're on their heels they want to kill you my
friend you've got to stay alive we'll talk about what happened to you in prison when we come back
but let me ask you this what are they going to do because it does seem like they're more and more
on their heels nationals are getting voted in everywhere in europe common sense life force
self-preservation is coming back well i said this we had a day for freedom demonstration
two months before i was arrested and i asked that question what are they going to do because i
i sit there now thinking what are they going to do next because essentially i i think i'm in the
willing seat and i've said that because everything i've tried to do for 10 years and i'd be willing
to sacrifice my life to bring the change that's needed now i think their intention has been many
times to let me be killed or have me be killed because that's but now if that happens after seeing
the world response and the response in britain and across the globe tomorrow hold on we got to go to
break it's a hard break i'm starting to ruby come back with the incredible answer talk about a cliff
hanger this isn't netflix it isn't movies this is a real hero this is a guy they've tried to kill
this is a guy tortured in prison repeatedly this is a guy that lost his house his wife and children
facing acid attack this is a real man right here we've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems
that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic
metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a
classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year and
now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the
world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you
the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as
focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're changing the world
now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com nurse a probiotic friendly
environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life help the good bacteria thrive and
support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically
studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments
in the gut to help feed good bacteria which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support
your immune system info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality
organic and clinically studied ingredients cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning
of the colon but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life dot com
or call 1-888-253-3139 we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever
offered with even better ingredients ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you a
powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits this incredible formula will help you
get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth one of the most
popular health trends on the planet built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial
compounds ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles digestion tendons and ligaments
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals this incredible chicken bone broth
formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric chaga mushroom goji berry powder
bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body it's time to experience what ultimate
bone broth can do for you get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today
at infowarstore.com we all know the importance of fish oils while we are sure to provide them for
ourselves it's just as important to make sure your kids get their epa and dha too honor roll is a
powerful dha fish oil formula for your child built from the ground up to support your child's
development this formula uses wild anchovy fish oil ultra purified krill oil and wild salmon fish
oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body with this fish oil formula you can support
your child's optimal heart joint cognitive and brain health while providing dha which has been
shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts built on powerful ingredients with
580 milligrams of high dha omega-3 is this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly
all heavy metals if you're looking for a formula to help your child grow look no further try honor
roll from info wars life at infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
war
imagine a hollywood movie where a guy 12 years ago is running a tanning salon a little town in
england and sees 10 12 13 year old girls crying for mommy being put in cars and then he talks to
the fathers and mothers they go yeah the police won't help us our daughters are sold into sex
slavery and then it comes out nine ten years after he talks about it it's happening in every town
and in many areas the police are involved and it's just incredible so now he's been put in
prison for a year because he exposed it they tried to kill him there now he's put in three months
loses 30 something pounds recap what you've gone through and the fact that a superior court judge
said and you're the expert on english law you've been through it correct me if i'm wrong
said okay you were convicted in one hour of covering the pedophile gang which again and then
so they struck that down but still it's got to be reheard and i don't know how much you're allowed
to say on air you told me a lot of it yesterday in that hour long conversation we had so how much
because people really care about you and they want to know what's going on so how you recap what
happened to you the three months in and then the latest info coming up next week so i went for a
judge in leeds where i was reporting on this this trial um i was not asked to plead guilty or not
guilty i was refused the opportunity to speak with my lawyers the case was not adjourned the judge
didn't even tell me what i've done or said the amount it took contempt and he sends me to prison
and then so it took them a matter of hours to send me to prison but then it took me two months
to get back before a judge to put across our case to say this is not how the british legal
system should work thankfully the highest court in the land the court of appeal agreed and they
they they gave a scathing attack um a scathing report against the judge where they said my sentence
was unlawful everything about it was unlawful five five major points were unlawful but the
point is they didn't have to retry that there's another case of a gentleman called west where
one thing one of the illegalities that the judge done on my case he done five on my case there was
one illegal thing done in the gentleman called west's case and his conviction was quashed and there
was no retry they've decided to retry me at the old bayley next thursday i go to court at the old
bayley in london the most senior court of our land the court that deals with terrorism high
profile murders and i'm in court for talking on my iphone about muslim men who are raping children
that's why i'm in court the court case had finished i wasn't prejudiced in a trial because
and let's be clear other news covered what you said and showed it they didn't get in trouble
you were being persecuted because you are a world leader everything i said was in the public domain
in fact if you look at what i said the contempt charge other journalists such as what little
have been have been stopped on contempt for breaching reporting restrictions he got a four thousand
pound fine i spoke to other journalists this week who claps the trial there was 11 men on the murder
trial and he claps the trial due to his reporting and he didn't face any charges no we know you're
being railroaded so let's talk about what you're facing next week and then what you're planning
because next week i face whether i walk into court as i've been told to apologize and plead guilty
so to meet the government halfway to meet them midway because at the minute it looks embarrassing
for them because they've been proven that they're persecuting they've been proven that their previous
trial was unlawful and illegal so it's whether i walk into court and do that and then i get to go home
or whether i walk in and which in fact i won't be doing anyway i will walk into court my head held
up and even if i walk out the front door there and then my head still held up or if i go to prison
and i come out in a matter of months or however long then i'll still walk out my head held up
because the only thing i take that i'm happy with about all this obviously i'm concerned and i'll
be lying if i said it wasn't worried i don't want to go back to prison it had an adverse effect
on my whole family not to me so so so let's be let's be clear tommy robison jill for exposing
pedophile rings and being a hero and being proven right because he's dangerous what makes you check
i mean i know me i'm not looking to be put in prison or killed or attacked or boycotted but i know
i'm right and so when they attack me it has the opposite i can be totally exhausted and some bad
news comes in and suddenly i have like five hours of incredible energy and it reminds me of growing
up in dallas you know when i was a nice sweet little kid like a 10 years old and bullies would
beat me up i'd come home i had said well you need to fight harder and i was like 11 or 12
i put one of the bullies in the hospital next time he did it and i ended up getting in trouble
but ed got me out of he said it's okay so we don't start fights we finish him what makes
you at a gut level have not not just the courage but the will to go out and do this and and and
it totally scares the enemy i put a lot of things i every time if i ever begin to feel sorry for
myself i'll put things into perspective um i just spent two and a half months in prison
on solitary confinement away from my children so yes that was not that was not good it hasn't
been a good effect but then i look at members of the bridge public who sign up for our armed forces
or the american armed forces and they leave their children they kiss them goodbye and they go on six
month tours um so when i i just view everything i may have been in jail it may have been terrible
there wasn't bullets passing my head every day no you said it that's it this is a war for our own
homelands we are soldiers in the information war and once we decide we're expendable doesn't mean
we want to die we love life but we have to decide we are expendable and i think once you cross that
road many years ago was it not empowering when you made the decision i'm going to go on to the end
whatever the cost is it was empowering i don't fear that i don't fear that and that's the truth
i i generally don't fear that because i've accepted that i've accepted that the inevitable outcome
of this path which i've chosen i wrote a letter to my wife when i was in prison explaining all
of this to say that i'm not in this position through anything other than choice i know what
i'm doing i'm not a victim i'm a target yeah i'm not their victim on their target and i'm not
going to wallow itself about a situation that is is nothing in comparison to what many other people
go for these little girls i mean anytime i get in the middle of the night wake up and go what are
you doing i think about how the globalists are pedophiles now they hurt children and god's just
saying do it you claim you love me execute this operation yeah and the other thing the other
thing the other judgment to make all the time is are we morally right and if i'm morally right i'll
do anything i will go anywhere and i will not face or care about the consequences of the problems
i'm talking about if i'm morally right and that's that and once you go past that as a moral compass
what we're doing is trying to save the future of our culture our children our country our history
a thousand years of history in this land that i'm sitting in and thousands of men if all i have to
do for five minutes is sit and think about the previous generations of what they get and what
they sacrifice and to be honest even what i'm doing is nothing or what i've been through is nothing
we are a generation of cowards born in an era where and i also take huge satisfaction that so many
people have been bought off of the fence they've watched what happened this last arrest if i'd
like to say a thank you to judge marsham who put me in prison because he has read killed more than
more people than anyone i've ever met he's been the most successful in bringing people to our cause
so that's all i base on alex i'm sure with yourself we're right we're telling the truth
and it's a more it's a moral battle it's a battle that we can't afford to lose and the rest the
consequences are really nothing in comparison to what many and now we need intelligence we need
to think our steps out because you're a major general in this fight we're gonna break two minutes
five minutes i'm gonna get back to your family tommy robinson dot online people need to support him
he's trying to develop a plan we're trying to work with other folks to set up something so that
he can really get out there to be protected when he does it i will be right back after break i've
got a plug or i can't finance this whole operation i can't finance any of it um we have great products
we have great supplements we have a lot of great things then forward store.com or come back a final
five minutes with tommy robinson then paul watson also from london is gonna be back so tommy stay
there five minutes we'll be back in two minutes survival shield x2 is the best deep earth crystal
source iodine it's the good halogen you learn about the iodine conspiracy and how they have all
these other bad halogens they bombard you with at lower fertility lower your brain waves lower your
iq x2 has been our best seller for almost six years uh the old companies that drill it up to 12
thousand feet i'm just having problems getting it's all part of the sabotage we're under and the
prices have gone way up i'm not going to charge you 500 bucks for this so i've broken the contract
this is the end of x2 now i hope to get it back by playing hardball or with some other company
we've got some big leads maybe even stuff even better instead of 9999999999 but there's all
sorts of da licenses you name it go to manufacture this so info war store dot com info wars life
dot com or triple a 2533139 25 off through this weekend and then it's going to be regular price
till x2 is sold out and i just hope we can reformulate it have it back and we got a
bunch of other special supermail vitality cold press incredible herbs that's 50 off get books
get t-shirts get it all it funds the operation stay with us x2 we were selling it for about three
years and then they found out how big it was and how much we were buying and they said oh we want
more money more money and oh this and that and so i've broken my contract and right now we can't
get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in next to it that literally is so pure that if you
put in a peaker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate it gasses like i dream of genie and it's
purple gas i mean that is so pure it just goes right into your body when you take it we're working
on trying to get other suppliers right now but i bought a huge amount of it ordered it six months
ago so i get the price down i said if you don't lower it i'm done i'm breaking the contract
well i broke the contract last week and so this is potentially the last run in fact right now
it is the last run survival shield x2 and we've got a good supply of it'll be gone a couple months
x2 if you haven't experienced it in four store dot com if you have experience you know how great it
is i suggest you stock up on it it's available right now for limited time in four store dot com
it's 25 percent off right now we all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health
issue info wars is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every
faucet shower and sink in your home that's why we're bringing you something to provide clean
water for your whole house with one system the pro pure whole house water filtration system is an
advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water it's compact in size easy to install and maintain
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and
your family with its broad spectrum contaminant reduction you'll only need this one filter for
clean and refreshing water all over your home head to info wars store dot com and whether it's your
first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems it's time
to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house filtration system today
you're listening to the alex jones show
you're listening to the antidote for fake news it's alex jones
sometimes i feel i've got to run away i've got to get away from the pain you drive
all right paul joseph watson is coming up in the next hour he loaded for bare incredible
information to break down tommy robinson is our guest tommy robinson dot online true political hero
and and and just incredible what he's gone through in the five minutes we have left
other points you want to get out to people other areas you want to get into where you're going
where you see the the political awakening how you see the globalist striking back tommy robinson
one thing i'd love to do is to just to express to individuals to anyone who's watched this
to anyone who sent me a letter to anyone who sent me an email
to yeah just just to let them know the effect that the support that when i went to custody
i think next fursday i'll go back to prison and i just want people to know that the support they
get me and i know i took satisfaction in the fact that many of many people who watch that many
people who watch these shows they make a decision at some point to step over so then start to start
sharing articles to start speaking and and it shows courage by every single individual who's willing
to do that because i'm fully aware of the backlash that you get off certain members of family of
friends at work so i wanted to just take a special moment whilst i've got the platform to thank everyone
if you're in america if you're in australia if you're in britain if you emailed me just to let
you know for those hours that i read your words and your support it picks me up it picked me up
when i sat i used to sit on a demonstration day when there was a demonstration to free me
anywhere on the clone i'd sit and wait for the messages and the letters to come through
to show me what happened on that day so yeah whilst i'm on the platform just a massive
opportunity alex to yourself and to everyone across the world who showed me support because it
meant so much you're such a you're such a working class hero and everybody knows that i'm not just
buttering you up here and here you say i fully expect to go back to prison next week but you
privately told me you said some of it on air they want you to apologize and fall on your sword then
i'd set you up anyways and so you're saying not that you don't you almost like you said you lost
30 pounds you said when you were there a year it wasn't as bad this time it was so bad they were
throwing feces on you all this and it's not like you you look like a prisoner of war when you came
out on tucker right after it happened took a few weeks off with your family why are you ready to
go back to prison why do you think you may go back because i think that if i was i think it would
diminish everything um and to be honest there's no i don't see no but i don't want you to sell out
but i did tell you if you at least say i understand the law i think you misinterpreted it but i'll
try to work within it i don't think you should say the the open throat of the apology they want
up front they might set you up but tommy we man we don't want them to kill you in there man
man it's i've gone through the look look i i i i sat down with my wife i explained where the
situation of me i'm in and i said look i just can't do it i can't do it i can't do it in the sense
that um in the sense i don't accept it i i don't accept that anything i said could have prejudiced
that trial no i agree so it comes down to will you're not exposing pedophiles successfully
you're not going to say you did something wrong when you didn't no i'm not that's it and and if
someone could show me whichever i've repeatedly after meeting after meeting after meeting with different
lawyers all different lawyers i've said tell me what problem there is with what i said no one can
all they can say is yes but it broke this this restriction so tell me why there's that restriction
and that was a judge's interpretation well because the law the law states the law states that he
cannot put in he cannot put a restriction well here's the deal i i want folks to pray for you
and i want them to pray for justice and i want you to be safe and you've already been on the
front line long enough as a real leader people want to hear you in the studio on the street some but
you've charged into battle enough my friend we really at a gut level you are more valuable to
winning the hearts and minds in the rear with the gear and so the front lines i'll see about
here in the break and paul joseph watching from london england is coming up tommy we love you
tommy robinson dot online people support him there donate there his legal fees have been incredible
god bless you you're a great example to us all tommy thank you very much guys cheers man he's
gonna be back next Tuesday or wednesday right before this critical trial pray for tommy we'll
be back and paul watched it in 60 seconds info wars dot com tomorrow's news today
day living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is the real drama can be found
here in leilani estates but a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need to be
concerned about ash and acid rain volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain
could lower the ph of the water to unhealthy levels to find out we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals alkalinity and ph what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of
heavy metals and acidity in the rain water next we tested the water from our alexa pure gravity
filter and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure but the ph was also restored
to optimal levels as it turns out the filter on the alexa pure raises the ph of the water
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply
but more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
we are on the march the empire is on the run alex jones and the gcm radio network
so
We are live this is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show on the September 18th edition.
There's a big article which went up on the Guardian and always friendly website towards
you.
Yours truly an info wars.
Today this afternoon as of a couple of hours ago headline YouTube's alternative influence
network breeds right wing radicalization report finds.
So you remember that CNN basically along with Buzzfeed and others embarked on a six month
lobbying campaign to have info wars Alex Jones banned off of the internet virtually almost
entirely to the degree that his LinkedIn page even got taken down.
Well now we see the same process again.
Basically what's happened is this shadowy group called data and society group put out
this report and they specifically identified literally every semi famous or famous YouTuber
you can think of.
They've got a network here in this article which if you scroll down is in the middle
of it.
It's called the alternative influence network on YouTube and basically it looks like that
famous meme out of what's the TV show.
There's always Sonny and Phil Delphi or something where this mad guy with the mad hairs drawn
all these lines all these different connections between random things.
They've literally taken every major YouTuber who even dips their toe into politics drawn
a manic series of of webs and interconnected lines between all of them based on who has
appeared on who else's show which of course means you must of course completely agree
with everything that person says if you appear on their YouTube channel even though in many
of these cases it's literally where two people have had arguments and have completely disagreed
with each other and fallen out but no that means there's a giant alt-right dangerous
conspiracy taking place within the underbelly of YouTube basically they try and make the
argument that it's radicalizing young people in fact in their very report which is linked
through from the Guardian article and I'll find it just here they say quote YouTube is
a principal online news source for young people so they acknowledge that the mainstream media
the legacy media is getting its butt kicked on YouTube which I've acknowledged for a long
time and then they go about making an argument with absolutely no evidence whatsoever that
it's radicalizing young people on the right even though a lot of these people in this
crazy network that they've drawn up on even right wing some of them are actually left
wing and of course what do you think the conclusion to this article is oh it's that YouTube needs
to shut us all down so you see how this works and within five minutes within five minutes
I was able to pick this apart you go to the original report you go to the original website
of the shadowy data and society group which is calling for YouTube and admits in this
article that they've lobbied YouTube to have all these different people shut down we're
talking about people like Steven Crowder people like Ben Shapiro some of these people are
somewhat part of the Republican establishment Candice Owens I mean she's basically in the
White House now Dennis Prager Joe Rogan who isn't even right wing doesn't even talk about
politics mainly on his podcast but all these people are engaged in a giant hateful conspiracy
to radicalize young people of course I'm there on the network as well so is Mike Cernovich
James O'Keefe Gavin McKinnis basically anyone you can think of so I've got a vac out even
Tim Poole who is a liberal he's apparently at the center of this vast alt-right conspiracy
so you go to the website of this shadowy organization that's put this report together
and then had it amplified by their left wing allies in the media and who's funding them
well imagine my shock is George Soros's open society literally you can go direct to their
funding page datasociety.net click on the left hand side where it says funding and partners
what have you got open society foundation New York Times Microsoft Microsoft research
all these massive corporations UNICEF Kellogg Foundation Ford Foundation Omid Yarn Network
Media Lab all these massive foundations Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation that's who funds
them that's who they're partnered with so again we see the same process once once again
lobbying YouTube to shut down their competition not because we're radicalizing young people
because we're defeating them on their narrative and this is a roundabout way which they get
to lobby and directly take it to YouTube and say oh look at us by this big credible independent
organization and we've identified hate speech on your platform what are you going to do
about it you dig into it for five minutes it's a George Soros front group let's start
going through this article on the Guardian because again it immediately comes out in
the Guardian because again that benefits them they want to shut down their competition too
for monetary and political purposes so as YouTube provides a breeding ground for far
right radicalization where people interested in conservative and libertarian ideas are
quickly exposed to white nationalist ones now absolute nonsense in virtually all cases
on this weird network that they've drawn the actual white nationalist who appear on the
same channel as the quote libertarians conservatives are arguing with them it's a debate the people
the conservatives the libertarians are challenging their ideas and trying to discredit and debunk
them just because you appear on the same platform as somebody doesn't mean you share all their
beliefs I mean what is a debate it's two people with opposing viewpoints going up against
each other none of these people none of these white supremacists who openly call themselves
white supremacists in some cases or at least white nationalists have ever been on my channel
Jared Taylor never been on my channel people like Mark Collet never been on my channel
Richard Spencer never been on my channel I've argued with all of them on Twitter at certain
different times but again just because they may have once appeared on someone else's channel
oh then everyone's a white supremacist guilt by association literally to the point where
you have a black 20 something woman Candice Owens who's literally in the White House basically
talking to the Trump family she's a white supremacist too so again it's so transparent
what they're trying to do here they're trying to pressure YouTube because YouTube aren't
going to look into their website they're not going to see that this is another form of
corporate regaining they're just going to accept it as an independent credible organization
and it says although YouTube's recommendation algorithms are partly to blame see now they
get an inter well if you don't ban these people at least relegate them in the algorithm the
problem is fundamentally linked to the social network of political influences on the platform
and how like other YouTube influences they invite one another onto their shows oh my
god you can't have people who disagree with each other or people who mainly agree with
each other talking to each other about politics I mean what could go wrong the report and
again this Guardian article does not tell you who's funding the report it's the people
who want to shut us down and silences the report describes an alternative influence
network like it's some shadowy thing that we've kept secret of about 65 scholars they
have to be shut down to media pundits and internet celebrities promoting a range of
right wing political positions from mainstream conservatism to overt white nationalism right
so basically two opposite ends of the spectrum conservativeism libertarianism white nationalism
because conservatives and libertarians have challenged their views and sometimes appeared
on their channels are vice versa that means that that's some kind of conspiracy to push
white nationalism as a whole no it isn't that is the ultimate in conspiracy theorizing
they are broadly united by their reactionary position again most of these people disagree
with each other in fact they had an article yesterday out of a UK publication calling
Count Dancula and Sargon of Akkad all right they literally have massive giant flame wars
and arguments on YouTube on Twitter with actual members of the alt right on a regular basis
oh but no they're all right do you know what the alt right is Sargon of Akkad was literally
banned off of Twitter for pissing off the alt right oh no but he's all right we're all
right because then if they can slap you with that designation they can pressure YouTube
to shut down the channels or in the very least relegate you in the algorithm and that's what
it's all about because we're winning the narrative we're waking people up to this phony left
right system to this phony system you know overseen by NGOs like the open society of
George Soros which is literally funding this report literally partnered with this organization
we'll be back on the other side of the break to get into it more this is the Alex Jones
show live breaking news info balls don't call or go away hi I'm Dan Pilla I started
fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house I sued the
IRS in one I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since I wrote the book on
tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought
might never be solved I can help you too if you owe taxes you can't pay don't wait another
day there's no such thing as a hopeless tax case call 834 no tax or go to my website Dan
Pilla dot com that's Dan Pilla dot com Dan Pilla dot com it's a no brainer a big Berkey
water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine
fluoride pharmaceuticals BPA and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and
much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted
name in gravity water filtration big Berkey and now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic
filter systems using code GCN call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or big Berkey water filters
dot com that's 1-877-99 BERKEY I tried other brands but I came back to my sunshine for
the best hot or cold pain relief get the best get a sunny bay heating pad sometimes life
can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder and the best relief for that pain is a sunny
bay heating pad did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the
best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high
quality can be used at home or at work and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both
Amazon and Etsy why take another pill many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone
and got rid of the neck pain long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer
can take its toll on your body our home grown small business tries to help people just like
us that's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public you can easily find sunny bay heating pads on Amazon just go to Amazon
dot com and search for sunny bay heating pads whether you're looking to boost the benefits
of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative infowars life has the formula for you ultimate
krill oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA DHA and omega three
is found in our high quality ultra pure krill oil concentrate containing powerful antioxidants
such as at the xanthan and omega three ultimate krill oil can help you experience the benefits
of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA this incredible formula can help your body
in many ways including supporting heart health joint health and cognitive health aiding and
regulating fat metabolism helping to maintain cognitive function and more and while other
krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas we're giving you the benefits of
a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate paired
with our ultimate fish oil or you separately it's time to see what krill oil can do for
you with ultimate krill oil now available at info wars store dot com the real red pill
plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to
improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest
fan favorite products the real red pill plus real red pill plus is an all new version
of the powerhouse pregnant on product it features the same great formula that supports your heart
brain healthy aging process with an all new natural caffeine boost included a powerful
pregnant on base the real red pill it could become one of our fellow info wars favorite
products now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including green DX track your
mod day leaving track and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your
mind and body in a healthy way got all the great stuff that real red pill has it's also
got the most edit get the real red pill plus at info wars stores dot com you're listening
to the alex jones show news analysis reports it's the alex jones show and now your host
paul joseph watson real life this is the alex jones show coming up later in the hour we've
got some shocking new revelations about china's social credit system we've talked about that
before how it's come into america how people are now literally I have this social credit
score which updates in real time this is literally straight out of a black mirror episode they've
linked it up to surveillance cameras and misbehavior bad behavior examples of which I'm going to
give later from this article are literally being taken off their social credit score
so they have a social credit score of 800 if they're a naughty boy or girl if they criticize
the government on the internet if they buy alcohol that is one of the reasons given if
they buy alcohol their social credit score gets diminished in real time and it can lead
to preventing them from traveling by plane or train it can lead to social media account
suspensions and being barred from government jobs and people are already have that having
their lives destroyed by this this is what the authoritarian left wants they want to
take it beyond merely silencing your voice on the internet they want to punish your life
so there's a big new article on that I'll get into shortly but continuing with this
this shadowy organization backed by George Soros basically in a bunch of massive corporations
and NGOs has come out with this fear mongering pile of crap and the guardian has peddled
it without question claiming that the vast network of alt-right white nationalists the
vast majority of whom don't believe in anything that the alt-right believes is basically part
of a huge network that's radicalizing young people radicalizing them to do what they don't
quite say because they have absolutely no evidence to back up these ridiculous aspersions
so they get into people like Ben Shapiro he's bad he's part of the alt-right now even though
his Jewish and the alt-right absolutely hates him and he argues with them on a daily basis
no he's all right Jordan Peterson Dave Rubin again a Jewish gay man he's he's he's a white
supremacist it continues while the mainstream members of the group typically don't subscribe
to alt-right or white nationalist ideals they do host to those who do under very friendly
terms well no they don't they've had giant arguments with them but again it's called
debate again these people don't believe in even acknowledging the right for anyone to
have a platform even if it's for the purpose of debunking their arguments it continues
now this is where it gets interesting because you you can see right through what they're
trying to do it says YouTube profits from these live debates God forbid people should
have political debates through the super chat feature which allows users to pay to have their
comments highlighted during the stream even if a channel fails to meet YouTube's advertiser
friendly content guidelines as a bus feed investigation in May highlighted these paid
for comments are frequently used to spread hate speech so again what is that that is
a direct financial attack that is an attempt to financially sabotage YouTubers who've
already been sabotaged by the ad pocket which again was another moral panic contrived and
inflated by corporate media networks because where their competition and we're kicking
their ass without the giant ad budget that they've got so they got rid of most of the
monetization on the video through the ad pocket so probably reduced it by I don't know two
thirds at least but then we had a super chat feature fans of the channel could ask questions
they could pay you know five ten fifteen dollars why they wanted to have that question highlighted
and have it answered on a live stream now you're not allowed to do that that's hate speech
because again God forbid these content creators should be able to make money this is the transparent
purpose of this entire report to undermine people financially to sabotage them at that
level just as the communist Chinese government does with their social credit score again
this this is the this is the embryonic stage of the social credit system in America in
the West and it's being driven by the authoritarian left it's being driven by groups like data
and society by corporate networks like the Guardian who are losing readers losing money
because their talking points and their narratives no longer resonate with most people so instead
of getting better arguments and shifting their political positions they just silence intimidate
financially sabotage their competition and that's what this is all about article continues
one of the challenges for YouTube is how careful the more extreme members of the network are
to avoid breaking the platform's community guidelines so again this is all about lobbying
YouTube to look at every single person that they put together in this ridiculous conspiracy
of the dangerous alt-right network vast majority of people within which are not alt-right disagree
with the alt-right hate the alt-right get abused by the alt-right in many cases so they're
trying to get YouTube to look at it to shut us down or at least limit with the algorithm
the deadly algorithm and for example I'm in a video about Bono a couple of weeks ago and
his rampant hypocrisy on flying the EU flag on stage is rampant hypocrisy on global warming
climate change and all these other issues now YouTube is the second biggest search engine
in the world only one behind Google as of a few days ago if you went and searched for
Bono on YouTube my video was quite high up let's just leave it at that don't want to
give them any ideas but again this is what they mean with algorithmic censorship article
continues YouTube issues awards to account when the content creator reaches one hundred
thousand one million or ten million subscribers at these milestones the company also reviews
the account to make sure they have not infringed copyright violated YouTube's community guidelines
so again another attempt to force YouTube to look at these accounts to monitor these
accounts and eventually if they get their own way to shut down these accounts the vast
majority of YouTube's moderation decisions are based on the content of videos the exception
to this rule is foreign terrorists in these cases YouTube refers to a list of individuals
and organizations supplied by the government will block them from creating channels regardless
of whether those channels violate YouTube community standards so again in the third
to last paragraph they bring up foreign terrorists again guilt by association oh YouTube monitors
foreign terrorist videos why should it not monitor these videos because they're akin
to ISIS propaganda right they're radicalizing young people that's their entire argument no
evidence whatsoever to back it up but see how they just slip it in there snidely right
at the end of the article Lewis proposes that YouTube should consider not only reviewing
the content of the channels identified in the report but the people they host and what
their guests say so big brother is not watching closely enough they need to review all these
channels they need to review every word that comes out of every guest mouth to see if it
violates their arbitrary vague definitions of what constitutes harassment or hate speech
as you saw with the Alex Jones channel as you saw with the Alex Jones Facebook and Twitter
accounts when we were shut down completely for basically the crime in the case of Twitter
of Alex Jones being mean to a CNN reporter see how they're working this in now they got
rid of Alex Jones now they're coming for everyone else Ben Shapiro Stephen Crowder
Tim Poole who is a liberal yours truly Gavin McKinnis everyone on this list the article
concludes YouTube is choosing to continue to endorse the content of these people who are
delivering really harmful messages yeah harmful to what harmful to your agenda to flood the
West with migrants harmful to your agenda to kill free speech across the board that's
the only way in which I'm harmful it would be an opportune time to make their standard
stricter for people to have that level of influence complete basic transparent call
for censorship right there in the last paragraph and who's funding it all George Soros Open
Society New York Times Microsoft giant corporations lobbying to shut down their competition once
again because they're getting their butt kicked they're getting their butts kicked in the cultural
they're getting their narrative crucified transparent ridiculous absurd shameful this is the Alex
Jones show live we'll be right back don't go away heart disease is on the rise clogged
arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you but
the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops or circulation and
irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong
here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone
is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier
I feel I recommend heart body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the North American continent
should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy
order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online
hbextract.com heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or heart doctor
by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants
known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best
at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit
of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winner's Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
X2, we were selling it for about three years,
and then they found out how big it was,
and I went to where we were buying,
and they said, oh, we want more money, more money,
and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract,
and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient
that goes in X2, that literally is so pure
that if you put it in a peaker dish
on top of a 90 degree hot plate, it gasses,
like I dream of genie, and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body
when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now,
but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago,
so I get the price down, and I said,
if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I wrote the contract last week,
and so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run
of survival shield X2, and we've got a good supply
of it, but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, infowarstore.com,
if you have experienced it, you know how great it is,
I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time,
infowarstore.com, it's 25% off right now.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize info wars, lie about us,
build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that,
and then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children
and Islamophobia, and then wallah.
Two weeks later, ban info wars completely
off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, forward slash show,
subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in,
it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com,
forward slash newsletter, and give us your emails
so that we can stay in contact with you
and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com,
forward slash show, how they can download
the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others
with the information and point out,
this is the verboten info,
this is what they don't want you to see.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from the infowars.com studios,
you're listening to the Alex Jones show,
and now your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
Don't you ever know what I'm gonna do.
Live is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show
before we go back to the news,
and it's big in terms of China's social credit score system.
It is the second to last run special on supermail vitality.
It's 50% off at infowarsstore.com right now.
This is the second to last run
of the legendary supermail vitality formula
to help you experience the power of this fan favorite formula
where you're dropping the price by 50% off.
Go and read the thousands of five-star reviews
from listeners who've been blown away
by the effect of supermail vitality,
a game-changing formula
that uses ancient wisdom and modern equipment
to boost your mail vitality
and help you fight fatigue easily.
Go and take advantage of the massive savings
available at infowarsstore.com
and supermail vitality
to see why our listeners and customers
stand by this great product.
So you can get it for 50% off.
It's the second to last run.
It's not gonna stick around for long.
That is supermail vitality, 50% off on sale right now
at infowarsstore.com.
They cannot financially sabotage us
yet if you still keep getting the product.
This is basically the last line of defense
where we also have the ultimate bone broth formula
at a sale price of just $19.95.
Again, that is massive 50% off.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas
we've ever offered with even better ingredients,
ultimate bone broth to help you save
big on this new product and stock up
by dropping the price to just $19.95.
Our previous supplier was unable to get
the incredible ingredients that we needed
to create this formula while keeping the cost low.
So since we want to make sure that you got
the best value possible,
we've now switched to a new supplier
with even better ingredients,
things like the chicken bone broth,
the turmeric root, chargar mushroom,
bee pollen, goji berry, and alfalfa,
herb powder, and even more,
even better ingredients right now,
just $19.95, and it is ultimate bone broth
available at infowarsstore.com.
You can also select the auto-ship option
to get an extra 10% subscription discount,
and you don't have to keep remembering
to reorder the product when you run out.
That is $17.96 for the 10% subscription discount.
Massive savings on ultimate bone broth formula
available right now at infowarsstore.com.
Support this network
as you continue to do,
even in the face of massive,
increased big tech censorship,
which brings us to this story
out of news.com.au.
This is out of Australia, but it's about China.
Big brother, China's chilling dictatorship
moves to introduce scorecards to control everyone.
Imagine that headline.
If that headline had been on infowars.com
10 years ago, it would have been evidence
of a fevered mind, a crazy conspiracy theory.
Now it's in the mainstream media.
China's dictatorship will introduce personal scorecards
where citizens will be monitored 24-7
and ranked on behavior.
Now, this has been knocking around for a few years.
We first reported on it, I believe, in 2015.
It was launched in 2016.
It's going to be completed totally in 2020.
But the more we hear about this,
the more this is beyond Orwellian.
China's chilling dictatorship
is moving quickly to introduce social scorecards
in which all citizens will be monitored 24-7
and ranked on their behavior.
In real time, as it goes on to describe,
the Communist Party's plan is for everyone
of its 1.4 billion citizens
to be at the whim of a dystopian social credit system,
and its on track to be fully operational
by the year 2020.
An active pilot program has already seen
millions of people assigned a score out of 800,
and they then either reap its benefits
or suffer its consequences depending on
which end of the scale they sit.
There's literally a black mirror episode,
which just won an Emmy last night,
the series won an Emmy,
where it's a woman,
and they each have a social credit score on their phone,
and based on their interactions with the police,
with the other members of the public,
based on their purchasing behavior,
that social credit score goes up and down.
They've literally, I don't know who copied who.
It was probably China who came up with the idea first,
but it's here, and it's even worse
than that black mirror episode.
I don't remember people being punished
in that black mirror episode for buying alcohol.
Maybe they were, but they are going to be in China,
and this is what they want here,
in the UK, in the West, in America.
Under the social credit scheme,
points are lost and gained based on readings.
They see the black mirror episode,
where they talk about this,
based on readings from a sophisticated network
of 200 million surveillance cameras,
the figure sets to triple in 18 months.
So they're going to have 600 million surveillance cameras
controlling this.
This is beyond all well.
The program has been enabled by rapid advances
in facial recognition, body scanning, and geo-tracking.
So everyone's face automatically flags up on this system,
and they know whether you've been naughty or nice.
The data is combined with information collected
from individuals' government records,
medical and educational,
along with their financial and internet browsing histories.
Listen to this.
Overall scores can go up and down in real time,
dependent on the person's behavior,
but they can also be affected by people they associate with.
Oh, so you remember before the break,
I was talking about the association of YouTubers
who have appeared on each other's channel.
And in fact, they go on in this article
to talk about people who have posted things
they shouldn't have done on social media.
That makes their score go down.
So again, what does that do?
It creates this process of you need to distance yourself
from your friends if they behave badly
in favor of getting closer to the state.
So if your friends have done something bad,
in fact, from what I read before,
you can actually gain points from reporting bad behavior.
So there's the tattletail aspect to it too.
You distance yourself from their friends if they're bad,
because their bad behavior,
which means buying alcohol or criticizing the state,
impacts on you.
You see how that works?
Very, very insidious.
Listen to this.
If your best friend or your dad says something negative
about the government, you'll lose points too.
So it's literally like when the youth brigades out of 1984
grasped up their own parents.
I mean, it's worse than that,
because as far as I know,
they weren't impacted by the bad behavior of their parents
in Orwell's 1984,
but you will be in China under this system,
which they want to bring here.
The mandatory social credit system was first announced in 2014
in a bid to reinforce the notion
that keeping trust is glorious
and breaking trust is disgraceful,
according to a government document.
Now, there's an episode to air on ABC Australia tonight
where the system summarized by a tygen general manager,
Jay Kong, who says,
if people keep their promises,
they can go anywhere in the world.
If people break their promises,
they won't be able to move an inch.
And they'll literally bar you from traveling anywhere
if your social credit score is too low.
This is the most terrifying system.
The most Orwellian surveillance-centric system,
the most brave new world system
that we've ever seen on planet Earth,
and it's going to be completed in two years.
It's already rolling out now.
Under the system,
those deemed to be top citizens are awarded bonus points.
They basically borrowed every single feature
out of dystopian horror movies,
out of dystopian fiction,
and put it into this system.
What was the one...
I think it was Escape from New York or something
where the well-behaved citizens were rewarded bonus points
for reporting dissidents and for chasing them
and stuff like that.
So they've literally borrowed everything
out of every dystopian thriller you can imagine.
The benefits of being ranked on the higher end of the scale
include wave deposits on hotels and rental cars.
Also, they'll give you the carrot as well as the stick
if you're a good boy.
VIP treatment at airports,
discounted loans, priority job applications,
and fast-tracking to the most prestigious universities.
But if you're a bad boy,
it's quite different.
If you're at the bottom of the scale,
it doesn't take much to end up on the wrong side of the scale,
with an estimated 10 million people already paying
the price of a low rating.
Jaywalking, late payments on bills or taxes,
buying too much alcohol or speaking out against the government,
each costs citizen points.
Now, that is exactly the system they're trying to bring here
by unpersoning people,
as they did with Alex Jones
literally taking down his LinkedIn profile.
And then it's, well,
do you have the right to have a bank account?
Do you have the right to have a credit card or get a mortgage?
If you're engaging in hate speech on the internet,
you see how that works?
Robert Spencer, wasn't it,
who got his credit card revoked by Mastercard,
got his Patreon access revoked because of hate speech.
He was being punished because he was a bad boy.
That is an embryonic social credit system.
It's already here and it's only going to get worse
unless we fight against it.
We'll be back. This is the Alex Jones Show Live.
Don't go away.
Fuelling your body is hard work.
Our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape
in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore
to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart,
joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
Hey, how would you like to take Infowars with you wherever you go?
Well, now you can do just that with the new official Infowars ad.
And here's the best part. It is absolutely free.
At the Apple Store and Google Play, you can join the Infowars today.
Check it out right now at Infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the Infowars official app taken on the globalist at Point Blank Range.
And with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at Infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
It is the Alex Jones Show and now your host Paul Joseph Watson.
It is the final segment of the Alex Jones Show in this fourth hour before we get into some final news stories.
I want to tell you about a couple more specials available at Infowarsstore.com where we have bodies at 50% off.
This is the ultimate turmeric formula.
It uses a medicinal herb of thousands of years.
Turmeric is one of the most studied ingredients known today.
And again, what we advertise this for, the foundation we sell it on,
is you get way more benefits than what we even advertise in terms of mental health.
If you want to go and read the peer reviewed studies between the connection between turmeric and mental health,
that's always worthwhile.
But after a long search for the perfect turmeric formula,
we've finally got enough bodies back in stock to provide our fellow Infowaries with 50% off.
It is there for the joint support, mobility support, flexibility support, inflammation support, immune support.
And it's a true 360 win.
It's got the turmeric root extract, the Boswellia serata extract, organic spearmint, sage, lemon balm, time leaves,
and piperine from black pepper.
It will help you take control of your body and feel the power of turmeric like never before.
Don't wait until it's almost out of stock.
Again, take advantage of modern science paired with a powerful ancient ingredient, turmeric,
with bodies of 50% off right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Go and read the independent five-star reviews.
That is, bodies of 50% off right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Please support this network.
Now, we will get into the end of this article,
which was about the most terrifying Orwellian system that you've ever heard of in reality.
It goes way beyond Outstrips 1984, Brave New World, any dystopian thriller that you can think of.
It is China's social credit score.
And we get into what happens to the people whose credit scores aren't so good,
the people who have bought alcohol or spoken out against the government.
Literally paying bills late, jaywalking reduces your social credit score,
which is linked to your phone, which is linked to your facial recognition,
which is linked to 600 million surveillance cameras.
Can you think of anything more dystopian, more big brother than that?
And again, it's already here in a limited format with what's happening with free speech.
They want to extend it to other things.
We've seen numerous conservatives deplatformed.
We've seen their patreons taken away, their credit cards removed,
even their inability to get bank accounts because they have the wrong political opinion.
So how much different is that to what the communist Chinese government is imposing on its citizens in China?
It's at least the same thing in embryonic format, and it's only going to get worse.
Now listen to this.
Other mooted punishable offences include spending too long playing video games.
So all your video game time will be linked into this same system.
Wasting money on frivolous purchases, again, completely vague, could mean anything.
Posting on social media, and of course criticizing the government on social media,
penalties range from losing the right to travel by plane or train,
social media account suspensions and being barred from government jobs.
They give an example here.
Chinese journalist Liu Hu is one of the millions who have already amassed a low social credit rating.
He was arrested, jailed and fined after he exposed government corruption.
He told ABC the government regards me as an enemy.
He's now banned from traveling by plane or fast train.
I guess this is what they want for Alex Jones for his hate speech as well.
Never mind you can't be on Twitter or Facebook or YouTube.
You can't have a website. You can't sell products.
You can't travel.
Maybe you can't breathe.
His social media accounts with millions of followers have been suspended.
He struggles to find work.
This kind of social control is against the tide of the world.
The Chinese people's eyes are blinded and their ears are blocked.
They know little about the world and are living in an illusion.
So again, they give another example.
Somebody who fled the US, actually this is a whistleblower,
told ABC that China's surveillance system suddenly ramped up after the end of 2016.
He said, since then, advanced surveillance technology, which we've never seen,
never experienced, never heard of, started appearing.
That is China's social credit score system.
I'm going to have to make a video about that
because nobody's really put it together in its whole and what it means
and how it's already being imported
and embryonically introduced in the West to some extent.
Another video, which I'm hopefully going to be putting out later on my channel,
is about cell phone addiction.
About the question of why tech elites keep their own children
away from smartphones, away from iPads, away from televisions
while, of course, literally making billions and billions of dollars
off the sale of those same products to the general public.
The link between the addictiveness of these technologies
and depression, especially childhood depression in the modern world,
the fact that, for example, the swipe down mechanism on your Twitter feed
and on other social media feeds and other apps,
when you swipe down to get the latest updates, the latest notifications,
that was literally modeled on a slot machine
where you pull the handle in a casino.
They literally modeled it on that
because they thought it would increase addictiveness, and boy, it did.
Another example, the Facebook notifications, you'll notice, they're red.
They weren't always red.
When they originally developed them, they were blue.
Those little numbers that pop up over your messages, your notifications,
your friend requests, they were originally blue.
They noticed that nobody was interested in checking them if they were blue.
As soon as they turned them red, they literally triggered a panic alarm in the brain
and to assuage that background anxiousness,
you have to check the notifications over and over and over again.
So they literally created a generation of addicts addicted to cell phones,
addicted to social media, and look at the depression now in teens,
and I give some stats about this.
This is all going to be in a video later on tonight.
We'll be up on the channel as to why they designed it to be so addictive
and why many of these tech elites are now expressing remorse
as to what they've inflicted on society.
It's very, very interesting indeed.
So there'll be a video up about that hopefully later on tonight.
Let's get into some final headlines here out of Europe.
Holland, judge gives Afghan migrant who raped mentally disabled teen girl lighter sentence to save him from being deported.
A 38-year-old Afghan migrant raped an 18-year-old mentally disabled girl in the Netherlands
and was given a lighter sentence by a judge in order to save him from being deported.
Basically what happened, this 18-year-old girl walked into a store,
I presume those were the only two people in it, he dragged her into the back, he raped her,
but the judge said, well, your residency permit might be affected by this
if we actually give you the proper sentence that a rapist should get.
Now bearing in mind that in Afghanistan, which is a different culture,
they literally have something called Bacha Bazi where old men, tribal elders,
get to rape young boys on a regular basis and nobody does anything about it.
You remember the US military blew the whistle on it and nothing happened.
That's their culture and now apparently, according to some authorities in Amsterdam, Holland,
that's okay to import.
Literally, they did not deport him, they did not give him the proper punishment
because, quote, it would lead to his expulsion. Absolutely incredible.
You have a situation in the Netherlands where people who criticise Islam are routinely the target of assassination attempts.
They had, just a couple of weeks ago, Gert Wilders, of course, the anti-mass immigration politician,
set to hold a draw Mohammed cartoon contest in Amsterdam.
A guy literally gets up on Facebook, puts out a video, a Muslim migrant saying,
no, I'm going to assassinate him, I'm going to stage a terrorist attack.
Thankfully, they arrested the guy because he was dumb enough to put it on the internet days before,
but then other threats rolled in and they just cancelled the event altogether,
once again proving, apparently in their eyes, that terrorism does indeed work.
Now, the Netherlands itself has a huge problem with Muslim grooming gangs
like virtually every other European country does since it instituted mass migration and open borders.
More than a thousand underage Dutch girls are groomed and sold into sex slavery every year
by young pimps with migrant backgrounds.
And again, you have a Muslim party now in the Netherlands, a Muslim political party.
He was telling Dutch citizens to leave their own country
if they don't like increasing the number of Muslim migrants populating Dutch cities.
Meanwhile, a 38-year-old Afghan migrant who raped a mentally disabled 18-year-old gets away with it
basically does not get deported because they didn't want his residency permit to be affected.
That's the situation in Europe right now,
where Merkel is set to fire her domestic intelligence chief
who questioned the Chemnitz migrant hunt narrative.
So basically, obviously, we had a bunch of protests in Chemnitz, Germany, a few weeks ago
because two migrants stabbed to death a German citizen.
They had mass protests in the aftermath of that.
They caught one or two of these migrants from what I remember of the reports
spitting on the graves of Germans.
They were obviously angry. They chased after them to a certain extent.
Then the German media got a hold of this and claimed that German people were hunting down migrants,
basically killing them, which never happened.
And now because Merkel's domestic intelligence chief questioned this narrative,
questioned as to why you should believe antifa videos that claim something
even though they're obviously incredibly politically partisan,
he merely said, let's wait for the evidence to come in.
Now he's been fired.
And you wonder why Angela Merkel's approval rating in Germany is in the toilet.
Absolutely incredible situation that still continues, unfortunately,
to get worse across the continent.
That's going to wrap it up for this hour of the Alex Jones Show.
War Room with Owen Shroyer is coming up next.
Breaking news at infowars.com. Don't go away.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients
such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarsstore.com.
It is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has,
but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139.
Your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
