From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Here we are live, broadcasting worldwide, so close to the election, so close, 57 days
out.
We're only one day away from the anniversary of the biggest terror attack in world history,
not just U.S. history, 9-11, was coordinated by Saudi Arabia and elements of the deep state.
Now we've been vindicated on exposing that to 28 pages and so much more.
Okay, the news I have, the magnitude of it, is so staggering that I'm actually extremely
calm.
I normally get really wound up because I've got so much I want to cover and so many angles.
Today, things are so crystal clear and so amazing that I'm very, very calm.
Obviously, we have the incredible red meat of tyranny and of arrogance and of just over
the top nerve of Obama saying, you'll never get the country to 3 percent, it's impossible.
Paul Krugman says so at the New York Times, what do you have, a magic wand?
And now I'm coming out and saying that it's an economic miracle that he created and taking
credit for Trump.
It's next level.
And also saying Benghazi itself, just a conspiracy theory, kind of like if one of your kids dies
in a car wreck, just say, oh, it's a conspiracy theory that Bobby ever existed, or grandma
never existed, or Obama's order of a stand down with Hillary in Benghazi and all those
people getting killed and the rest of it, and then they just come out and say things
like that, it really is amazing.
But that's not our big story today.
That's not our big story today.
And I'm going to cover it and I'm going to get into it.
I made some phone calls this weekend and I got some phone calls, three phone calls, and
I was told the same thing in all three phone calls.
And they just confirmed everything I knew and why we got banned.
And there's a lot of reasons went into it, but the big ones center around the fact that
when I get up here and I say that our deep state sold us out to China, and that China
is to be in the preeminent role in this deal, when I say that Apple and Google have officially
moved there to build the most high tech AI systems, search engine censorship, total control,
that's admitted.
But the fact that I was calling for action, and the fact that they know I'm getting briefings
through sources we have to the president, is the reason that they are strongly considering
not just kicking me off the internet completely, but doing something else.
And I think you all know what we're talking about here.
I don't say that to be dramatic.
I'm a loyal American citizen, and I believe in America, and I'm a patriot.
And I have to do this.
I have to stay the course, no matter what the cost is, and I've pledged I'm going to
do it because it's the right thing to do.
But the average person isn't acting like this is a big deal as it is.
I mean, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to lay it out with very, very calm focus in the
next segment.
And then I'm going to lay out the details of it, and then I'll get into just the general
hatred for this country by the ruling class, and then you understand why they would want
to sell us out to China, a soulless communist state with five times the number of murdered
citizens than what Hitler racked up.
I mean, those aren't words.
It's history.
That's fact.
And I'm honored to stand against Tim Cook, and I'm honored to stand against the executives
at Google, and I'm honored to stand up against Jack Dorsey and all the rest of these people
because I'm not a traitor.
I would sell out to something superior and something better because that wouldn't be
selling out.
That would be adopting it.
I would marry into that.
No, I will fight to the end against this.
This is pure treachery, pure anti-human evil.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWars
Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially
formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit,
and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which
helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and
clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium
organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of
the InfoWars.
I'm your host, Alex Jones.
This is the most censored, most banned, most demonized broadcast in the world.
I am the first major multimedia news organization to be banned by corporate racketeering blockade,
and it's being done for a reason I'm going to expose to you right now, then we'll get
into Obama taking credit even more disgustingly this weekend than he did on Friday, saying
I am the reason the economy is good.
Not workers or not cutting taxes or not turning loose the power of the American people, but
he says he is the reason.
And then if you criticize that on Twitter or Facebook, they ban you.
And we now know that 57 days out from this most important election ever that you criticize
Democratic lawmakers in any way on any multimedia, social media, you are going to be restricted
or banned.
They are making their authoritarian move as we warned everyone.
Now that said, let me tell you that we'll be covering all that coming up in the segments
to come, but I first want to direct everybody to infowars.com right now.
It is absolutely critical that everyone see the article and the live feed so we can be
proactive and share this with everyone we know right now.
Go there on your phone, grab the URL, text it out to everybody you know, group text,
tell people in person.
We're in an emergency.
What I'm about to tell you is absolute fact and it affects you and your family unlike
anything on this planet and it is earth shattering and it's happening in live time right now.
It is your future, everything on the line, your children, my children, everybody.
Look at the headline, watch live, China secretly declared war on the United States two years
ago and is working with globalist state against our nation.
We are witnessing 21st century sixth generation warfare.
Now you can pull up the Chinese generals two years ago saying we are at war with the United
States in their major publications.
You can see the action they took.
You can see the major companies and corporations deciding to join with China when that announcement
was made to roll over, chief among some apple.
You can see right after Trump won 20 months ago in the winter of 2017 in Davos, Switzerland
the dictator of China traveling to that mountaintop in Switzerland and saying I will help you
keep our world government planned together.
We will defeat Trump and America and Yonker, the Nazi air, the entire Nazi fortune grandfather
ran the whole show, he pledged to, quote, crush America in a trade war.
These people have real hate for America and the robber barons that set up this modern
system 100 years ago, they have real hatred for you because the American system has beat
them at least four times in the last 240 years.
And so there's a score to settle.
And the authoritarians made the conscious decision 50 years ago to deindustrialize and sell out
this country and at the 11th hour, 58 minute mark, Trump got in and other nationalists
got in because it's so obvious how authoritarian and evil this is.
And so we were taken down five weeks ago off of 20 plus platforms, now it's 30 plus.
The Apple app was removed that already had over two million downloads on Friday.
You still have it on your phone for now till they do updates, but you can't in the future
go download it or find it and add insult to injury when you search for info wars or Alex
Jones, you get Huffington Post.
So they like to rub it in.
That's the technocrats in control of your life.
That's a day after Twitter ban me.
You have to understand that that was done because I am exposing the real war that's
going on.
This is a 21st century six generation war.
You're already facing automated systems that are artificially intelligent, just not autonomous.
What they call Cynthia, some in IBM in this big race and some in Microsoft believe they
actually do have autonomous robots and autonomous machines now autonomous brains, but that they're
just basically the equivalent of someone who's mentally retarded.
When it comes to being able to be aware of the fact that they're conscious, but they
could be totally conscious or beyond that for all we know.
But there is a great arrogance by the political establishment that it's just a race and it's
going to happen and humans are obsolete and that it's over for the nation state and free
market that the rise of the technocrats and the authoritarians is here in their own words
at Davos.
They've been staying for 10 years.
We're going to have a world government.
We're not going to have elected governments anymore.
You can just type into Bloomberg Davos elite declare themselves technocrats.
They declare rule of the technocrats.
They say the age of the technological dictatorship is here and the techno dictators.
This is what they're saying and the communist Chinese are a million percent bought into
this and have killed five times the people Hitler did and are true bloody tyrants.
And Google and Apple have completely merged with the Chinese communist and have wedded
themselves to them and we are the bride.
They are the groom.
They do the pitching.
That is the position the CFR says America is subservient.
We gave him the Panama Canal all the secrets.
There's only one group that can't get this through their head.
They've tried to have Thomas Barnett come and give them work college speeches how great
it is and world government is the military.
And that's why Google said we're not helping the U.S. military do anything.
We're not going to help you with autonomous systems.
We're not going to help you with anything.
Instead they announced that they're doing all of their AI work in China, especially
from Google.
Google won't renew controversial Pentagon AI project.
But don't worry, opening the Google AI center in China and then giving the government all
the findings so they can weaponize it.
See how that works?
And I sat there in the Senate Intelligence Committee hearing last Wednesday and I watched
Senator Cotton go you won't even work with the Pentagon or anybody.
You won't help us with anything anymore and Google won't even come to our meetings because
they've already made the deal.
And Trump doesn't have a Justice Department to prosecute him.
The average senator is just a peacock playing golf and acting powerful all day.
And while these guys can't even figure out how their email works, that 60-year-old technology,
the technocrats have moved on to China where they're doing animal human cloning.
You name it.
And there's no soul, there's no control, there's no nothing.
Instead the political parties here are just busy trying to dominate flyover country and
what they see as wild humans that still own guns and drive around and pick up trucks.
They're just kind of threatened by the memory that there might have been some men.
There might have been some people that would stand up to them.
And so that's how dire the straights are, that we can't even get the average American
to care that the biggest mass murderers in the world have merged with our government,
are trying to destroy our prosperity and that Trump valiantly comes in, fights for the wheel
of state, gets us righted and then the establishment's mad that we're coming back from the dead
and then I'm being completely shut down.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S. What
if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally?
At heart and body extract, we've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier
heart.
Don't just take my word for it, check out all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com
or to order call 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, HBXTrack.com, don't risk it when you can
take charge of it.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn
American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road, Diamond Gusset
Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com, that's g-u-s-s-e-t dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the
one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
When you use public Wi-Fi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords, that's why I use private internet
access to encrypt my internet connection for less than 10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing
anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
Visit www.internetaccess.com, it's time to protect your online privacy.
Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory functions.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the
fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress
symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
The real red pill plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest, fan-favorite
products, the real red pill plus.
The real red pill plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Kreglendon product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, and healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Kreglendon base, the real red pill, could become one of our fellow infowars'
favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Regie extract and Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that real red pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the real red pill plus at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You are listening to an infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex
Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for joining us on this live.
September 10, 2018, global transmission.
Communist China developed a plan with Western robber baron elites more than 50 years ago
to consolidate global power over the planet and abolish the nation state once and for
all, Apple, Google, and other major tech companies have officially moved to Communist
China and are now engaged, 21st century, sixth generation warfare against our country.
Our nation is being overtaken.
Our nation is being consolidated.
Our nation is being sabotaged.
And all of the authoritarianism that you see visited upon the poor slaves of China is now
being developed and prepared and beta tested there to be brought here.
The unpersoning, the de-platforming of an individual off of every major digital system
is the Chinese model of the digital death penalty if you don't submit to the bureaucrats
and whatever their latest brainwashing is, do you understand the magnitude of that?
Now here's the big takeaway and what needs to be done.
We need Congress and we need the president to get informed on this and informed on this
quickly because the intelligence committees and even the military and the president and
others are decades behind where Silicon Valley and the Communist Chinese are in their thinking
and understanding of bringing in a ubiquitous system that controls commerce, that controls
information, that controls movement of people, that is a giant AI global membrane and that
when the first true AI system gets plugged into that, it will in rapid succession take
it over.
So there is a global race for AI.
Everything is being established to be controlled by AI and be autonomous.
So when Elon Musk writes an article or goes on Joe Rogan's podcast, he just keeps saying
AI is dangerous.
It takes humans out of the decisions.
It could take over.
It could do really bad things.
Stephen Hawking said that, but we're already under artificially intelligent automated
systems that censor Google and Twitter and Facebook.
We're already living under digital minders.
And China already has a system called SkyNet that's their social credit score that's being
deployed here.
The first place that ever reported the Chinese Communist Social Score plan was in FullWars.com.
It was in Chinese newspapers at the time.
Paul Watson was still married to a Chinese woman.
They got divorced right after that.
And her family was in the Chinese government, I'll just leave it at that.
And so Paul warned about it.
Now, here we are today.
And the Pentagon and the CIA, the people that aren't traders in there, thought they had
control of Silicon Valley.
Silicon Valley has already moved to China.
And when they're told we're not going to testify in Congress, the head of Google, and we're
not going to work with the Pentagon, what does that tell you?
What does it tell you when they say, but we are going to work with the Chinese military?
And when you work with them, it's all given to them.
And Apple has officially moved there and given them all of your Apple IDs.
So yeah, you think Tim Cook will show up in Congress as he's asked?
He just meets with Senator Warner and that CIA officer Obama set up.
They don't care.
When I talked to Oliver Darcy, CNN, I said, yeah, you're part of that CIA operation.
They're bringing leftist media in to run it.
And the government funny, he was just smiling and looking at me nodding his head.
That's the power trip.
If you've got a government divided against itself, you've got Democrat mutinies going
on inside the White House, inside these agencies, and you have big corporate Silicon Valley
wedded to China because they can do anything they want there and be tax exempt.
You've got the left train to hate America and literally be psychologically programmed
like a pack dog.
So when it's blood, you've got Congress not knowing half of what's going on and you've
got mainstream dinosaur media dying.
It's big tech killing them.
And they think if they join with it, they'll be protected.
But you notice their final job are being suicide political kamikaze to go in and be the quote
fact checkers who are given the magic wand to say what's real news and what isn't and
who can be up and who can't and what's bullying and what isn't.
So the New York Times and CNN and all of them now are admittedly in this Pentagon CIA office
that Obama set up that gave the green light now for Google and Apple to move to China
and nothing's being done because the media is controlled by a breakaway group run by
Obama and Hillary still with big tech censoring millions and millions of conservatives and
patriots shutting everybody down engaged in social engineering engaged in massive manipulation
of everybody.
And we're sitting here in the middle of a 21st century six generational war run by big tech
the Democrats a bunch of traders in old media and the communist Chinese funding it and running
it who own our debt and are taking over our infrastructure and our colleges and everything
and they're totally ruthless.
They're five times worse than Hitler.
If you count number of dead, they are totally soulless.
The Chinese communist and Trump comes in and barely gets the wheel away from them and things
come back from the dead, but he's surrounded and they're sticking sticky notes on his back
calling him an idiot and put some above his door saying that it's crazy town to manipulate
him to get angry so they can say, oh, Trump has a crisis.
Trump is in a crisis of not being able to run his own White House.
No, we have enemies in there trying to overthrow him trying to sabotage his agenda and bragging
about it, but don't worry with Trump in crisis, Pence waits in his shadow.
Where'd you hear a year and a half ago, they do the 25th amendment on Trump?
You see?
You see how that works?
You see how this is going?
They're making their move because we dare have a real president and that's the big issue
and wouldn't America stand with America against the chai comms?
Wouldn't you stand for your own prosperity?
No, because people through peer pressure online are trained to hate Trump and hate me and
watch their whole future go down in flames.
You've heard the phrase, you are what you eat, not true, actually you are what you can't
feel.
Okay, thank you very much.
It's time to protect your online privacy.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Sun Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield, infowarslife.com.
We knew it was coming. The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize info wars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility to that
then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia
and then voila, two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top 5 or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast,
just click on the link, whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and give us your emails
so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com forward slash show,
how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps,
how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
infowars.com is tomorrow's news. Today, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So Google won't work with the Pentagon on artificial intelligence,
but it's officially moved its main operations for AI to China
and is merging with the Chinese government, letting them have all the technology.
That's right, Apple has officially moved to China to enjoy tax exemption,
but the left here says that Trump's 15% tax on corporations is too low.
It's all part of the economic war against this country.
It's 21st century six generational warfare with the big mega banks,
Silicon Valley, the Hollywood crowd, the unelected EU,
and the chai comms trying to break the back of the American system.
It's treason and it's time for the American people to wake up.
The good news is I was in Congress last week and they were discussing the fact that Google
and Apple and others have turned against the United States.
We built the Internet, we built these companies, the CIA, the NSA funded them,
but Congress and yes, even the president have been weak so far in taking action.
I was told by high level sources over the weekend and then told by some other
mid level sources in the White House that indeed,
Trump's a few weeks behind on executive orders crashing down on the censorship
and the espionage, but that his own staff has been sabotaging and hamstringing him
something that we first broke over a year ago that is now, again, proven to be accurate.
That's why info wars is next year's news today.
Now, look at this article.
The week in tech, info wars and China's great firewall.
And they admit China has a firewall to control their dissidents.
Now America does. New York Times and they report on it.
Like, is it a good idea that we're going to be like China?
Remember just a year and a half ago, the Chinese dictator was praising US media
and the government for quote, cracking down on fake news.
That means news that the government disagrees with.
And Google and Apple help round up their political dissidents over there.
That tells you they'll do that here if they can get away with it.
That tells you that they are incredible.
Authoritarians.
Now, we'll see if the president takes action.
He said he will.
Really, there's no action that could be too strong.
When you have a country that's open and free and they bring in an authoritarian regime to help it buy up the debt,
take control of the infrastructure, take control of universities, buy up Hollywood.
And then brainwash through the media, the public to hate their president, to hate patriots that stand up for the truth like myself.
And to side with the multinational gutting of this country when it even hurts the idiots that lower the drawbridge and let the dragon in.
Pun intended.
But their identity in America with the left, as has been recorded and proven, is hating the country, hating themselves,
hating prosperity because the image of 57 Chevy's, Marilyn Monroe, Muhammad Ali, Roger Stalbach, all that makes people feel small.
And so the authoritarianism of China, well, they've been raised in the universities and government bureaucracies that that's a good thing because they'll be in charge of something like that.
And so they're imagining that grass that's green on the other side, even though it's a wasteland on the other side.
Now, we come back in the next segment.
Just when I thought it was sickening video on Friday of Obama taking credit for Trump, he completely did it, as you know, this weekend.
And then when Chris Tonto Peranto, one of the heroes of Benghazi, frequent guest here, coming on the next few days, tweeted and said,
How dare you, you ordered a stand down, my friends got killed, and now you say it's a conspiracy theory, Twitter banding, suspending.
Because you can't talk back to a protected group.
That's what Apple said when they banned me on Friday from the app, a new level of torches interference, a new level of monopoly, a new level of I paid for that app through the app store,
paid for it to be reviewed and accepted, had five stars, number one app in news.
And so they just got rid of it after two million downloads in five weeks.
Now, if you have it on your phone, you still have it, you can still get the Google Play for now.
I'm sure they'll follow suit and remove it so you can't get it.
We haven't been removed from Google yet.
And by the way, lawyers tell me, no, you sure you'll win, but these are trillion dollar companies apiece.
It'll take years to do.
And by the time I win that, we won't be in America anyway.
Because that's what I'm going to cover next hour.
And it ties into the Chinese Communist move and how the globals are allied with it and how they use that as a safe base, a safe harbor to go back and forth and commit criminal actions
and use the Chinese government and its corporations as cover to commit those acts.
You always hear about folks that run back and forth between the U.S. and Israel because Israel doesn't have extradition and they can commit crimes and that goes on.
Well, China's got how much bigger of a population and more money?
But again, there's a meme on the Internet, a bot on YouTube and everywhere, that when I talk about China, now, it's the big threat that I'm a Assad agent and a traitor.
I have nothing to do with Israel, the Assad and Rabinda Israel.
I'm not against Israel.
If you let the Muslims take it over, they'd be killing each other forever over it.
Why can't Israel exist?
I'm not out to get Israel.
I don't like the leftist pro-Israel lobby that's anti-gun.
And that lobby attacks me constantly, the Southern Poverty Law Center, ADL.
But the meme is quit covering up for Israel, Alex.
That's the mental illness online of the traitors.
And then weak-minded people buy into that, the whole QAnon thing that's fraudulent.
And I'm not saying you're bad if you like that or whatever, but Mueller's a great guy, Alex is bad.
They're going to ship everybody to Gitmo.
China's not the threat.
It's Israel.
Whoa, that is crazy.
Israel has sold a lot of weapons to China, and that is treasonous.
A lot of stuff we give them, they sell.
So does our government.
It's wrong.
But it's this mental illness at the end of the day.
You watch, Mueller's coming for Trump.
But see, people want to be delusional.
They think everything's okay.
Everything's fine because they can't deal with the crisis for him.
They got to say some anonymous guy on 4chan named QAnon says everything's fine.
So we can all go back to sleep.
Stick with the plan, they say.
Well, Alex woke me up, but he's bad now.
Those are PSYOP operations.
I'm being sued by the Democrats.
They're trying to shut me down.
We're under total attack.
We need your prayers.
We need your support.
I'm going to get into the fact that they're definitely planning a false flag against them in full wars.
Mike Adams is an article in a powerful video that I think I asked Paul to post this morning.
I don't know if he did.
I don't think I saw it.
So I guess you guys can do that.
Dealing with the fact that they're preparing a false flag against us.
There's no doubt it's an emergency alert.
It's very powerful.
People should see that.
We're going to post it in full wars.com as well.
Can't tweet it out.
So it's up to you guys to tweet it out.
And then just briefly.
We won't be here if you don't financially support us.
You have been financially supporting us.
In fact, you have increased the amount of purchases you're making.
But it's like a seawall.
Yes, we're bringing in the most money we've ever brought in.
But we're spending more money than we ever have under all these attacks.
And if things don't just increase 5%, if they increase 20, 30%, we can definitely expand and stop the globalist and not let them shut us down.
But more and more, I realize that they're running out the clock.
They're going to plan something before the midterms.
The country's coming back too strong.
They're panicking.
And I just want to be effective in what could be the final days of info wars.
I mean, really, I'm not scared.
I understand what we're up against.
And I understand the consequences if we don't defeat this.
I just want everybody to know how serious this is for you and your family.
Because you're right here next to us.
This is a full assault, 21st century, 6th generation warfare against America.
So we're under attack.
The United States is under attack.
Your families are under attack.
Christianity is under attack.
And we need your financial support at infowarstore.com.
We've got some big sales that have got to end today.
They've got to end today.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen.
Our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Kreglennone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Kreglennone base, the Real Red Pill, will quickly become one of our fellow Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Redi Extra, Iremate, leaving track,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up, all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
One of the most popular health trends on the planet, built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body. It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We are on the march. The Empire is on the run. Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network.
What have I been saying for several years? I've said that the European Union is using draconian regulations that they don't enforce against China
to sue US corporations for the EU to bring in total censorship and control.
Well, now we've got all the major news articles here, IBC, you name it, coming out.
France takes Google to court to control content globally. See, I actually study and then I come up with original ideas.
I don't just go off what the news says. I read an article and I see things other people don't see.
It's not the EU and France trying to stop hate speech. It's them taking control of our free speech.
You're like, yeah, I know that's common sense. Exactly. But people, I've noticed, don't read news like that.
Let's go. It is hate. We must let the EU run us. No! The EU is unelected.
How did it get 25 countries into it? None of them ever had a vote.
England finally had a vote and said, we're getting out. Two years ago, have they gotten out? No.
Is it run by the grandson of the head Nazi family, the Yunkers? Who doesn't pay taxes in the EU?
Yeah, there's Yunkered Soros. I mean, look at those two. Lord help us, man.
That's who we're fighting. But the average trendy skinny jeans like, yeah, screw Alex John, screw Trump.
America sucks. But you don't want to go live in communist China.
But there's this existential weirdness of like, we're on the winning team. We're with the big corporations.
Can you find out what these mercs are paid at BuzzFeed and stuff like $40,000 a year, $25,000 a year?
Almost nothing to be traders. But if they can get someone taken down, then they get a big bonus.
They're not journalists. They're little secret police crybaby tattletales.
Now, the only thing more arrogant than the unelected EU trying to run the Internet here is our stupid Congress letting it go on.
And the fact that Trump just now started to figure this out.
Imagine these groups at BuzzFeed everywhere. They love being villains and they all make that mentally ill soy boy rat face.
They all do it. Paul's done videos on the soy boy. They all do this weird thing where they go, I can't make the face.
And we consider and joke about it all day, but it's not funny.
So the only thing more arrogant than all of this is Obama coming out and taking credit last week for the economy coming back.
When he told Trump, you'll never get it above 3%. Paul Krugman at the New York Times Economist says so.
And if he says so, it's so. They also said 98% chance Hillary would win with some fake algorithm they had that they pulled out of their rear end.
But now he's back last week saying, no, no, I take credit. It just had lag time. Now it got worse yesterday.
He takes credit for recovery says economic miracle started after he left, but that he triggered it.
And then it's happening despite Trump when he always said it was impossible.
So he is again, not just a liar, but insanely arrogant. Here's the video.
And by the time I left office, household income was near its all time high and the uninsured rate had hit an all time low and wages were rising and poverty rates were falling.
I mentioned all this just when you hear how great the economy is doing right now. Let's just remember when this recovery started.
None of that's true. There were all time people on welfare, all time food stamps, all time growth of the debt, the Federal Reserve printed $5 trillion plus dollars to try to prop it up.
They've been raised at this rate six times since Trump got in trying to kill the recovery.
And Trump has said stop it and they're not going to stop. So I mean, if you know what went on, this is total lies.
Continue. Then you just a third smiles. It's like he lost the football game.
I'm glad it's continued back in the 30 seconds, 20 seconds.
He's glad it continued. It never went above 3%. When you left, it was like 2.3.
You are a liar. But he sits there with his con game with a bunch of these weirdos listening to him and they all clap and he goes, the sky is red at high noon.
Fish do not live in water. Black is white. Up is down. 2 plus 2 equals 100.
Just go back to it.
I mean, I'm glad it's continued. You hear about this economic miracle that's been going on.
When the job numbers come out monthly job numbers and suddenly Republicans are saying it's a miracle.
I had to kind of remind them actually those job numbers are the same as they were in 2015.
2016 and anyway, I digress.
What a fancy word. He's so pissed off. He's so panic. The country's coming back in 2009.
We had new jobs numbers as good as they are now. I went and looked it up. He's a liar.
It's not with the economic growth. It's not with the bonuses. It's not with all the other facts that are there and it never went above 3%.
And remember, he said it during the campaign. Here he is with his magic wand statement.
When somebody says, like the person you just mentioned who I'm not going to advertise for, that he's going to bring all these jobs back.
Well, how exactly are you going to do that? What are you going to do? There's no answer to it.
He just says, well, I'm going to negotiate a better deal. How exactly are you going to negotiate that?
What magic wand do you have? And usually the answer is you don't have an answer.
Okay, but now he says the economic miracle started after he left office.
So he's using in terms of magic wand miracle. But then he goes further. He calls Benghazi a conspiracy theory.
Just, oh, the 13 hour stand down order by him and Hillary all confirmed. It's all come out.
Congressional testimony, huge scandal. He just says conspiracy theory. He's got a magic wand.
Trump's got one called cutting back regulations that are out of control that are designed to shut down our businesses,
cutting taxes, cutting the corporate tax from 40 to 15 to get some jobs back.
China goes to zero. They know how important that is.
To counter that, they understand that that's a real magic wand. But see, he's got his magic wand.
Obama does. He's got his magic wand, ladies and gentlemen.
He can just lie and use a fancy word like conspiracy theory, a fancy term and just go Benghazi conspiracy theory.
Yeah, that didn't happen. Oh, Alex Jones, he's a conspiracy theorist. He just keeps being right about everything.
So we got to shut him down. Let's go to his latest outrage.
This Congress has championed the unwinding of campaign finance laws to give billionaires outside influence over our politics.
Systematically attack voting rights to make it harder for young people and minorities and the poor to vote.
Out of that's true.
Handed out tax cuts without regard to deficits.
Slash the safety net, wherever it could, cast dozens of votes to take away health insurance from ordinary Americans.
Embrace wild conspiracy theories like those surrounding Benghazi or my birth certificate.
Rejected science, rejected facts on things like climate change.
Embraced a rising absolutism from a willingness to default on America's debt by not paying our bills to a refusal to even meet,
much less consider a qualified nominee for the Supreme Court.
Again, all of this is just pure lies, pure crud, pure garbage. It's just incredible.
This guy is lies worse than the devil. Please remember infowarstore.com, great t-shirts, great books, great films,
water filtration, air filtration. When you shop with us, you stand for the first amendment against this censorship and get great products.
And we've got two specials that have to end today. 50% off in the ultimate bone broth and turmeric.
Both of them, especially the turmeric, are very close to selling out.
Infowarsstore.com funds the revolution against the globalists.
The scientists at InfowarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1-5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfowarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
With advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system
to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different
essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today available at InfowarsStore.com.
Now coming up the next segment, I am going to get into some critical information on the globalist plan
with 57 days left to stage a false flag.
100% they're planning it. All the signs are there. I'll break it down next segment.
Then the head of the walk away movement is going to be popping into the transmission as well.
But here's everything you need to know about the Infowars Band in 2 Minutes. Here it is.
Because there is a concerted effort by the Democratic Party and multinational corporations in Big Tech
to silence conservative and nationalist and populist voices ahead of this critical midterm election.
And the Big Tech companies and the head of Apple admit that they met with Senator Warner,
who's running this whole thing, to begin shutting down conservatives
or the Democrats threatened to federalize Big Tech if they did not basically roll over to them.
So the Republicans left a vacuum there by not coming in with regulations to say you cannot violate people's free speech.
Mr. Jones, this morning's hearing is specifically about preventing election manipulation.
This afternoon's hearing is...
Sure, yeah, but every time they have these meetings, they bring up Infowars.
They claim they're taking Infowars down to stop election meddling.
Obama established with an executive order.
He established with an executive order before he left office a special office that deals with foreign propaganda.
What it's really been used is to target domestic, populist, popular groups.
The real election meddling is by Facebook and Google and others that are shadow banning people,
that are outright banning people, and that are blocking conservatives involved in their own First Amendment political speech.
Even the New York Times calls it a crackdown on conservatives
and a plan to de-platform conservatives from the Internet and communicating with each other.
Just like Communist China, this is dangerous authoritarianism.
And they packaged silencing Americans who are popular and well-spoken as Tucker Carlson said about me on Fox News.
Not because what I say is bad, but because what I say is effective and true and popular.
But I think the corporate dying dinosaur media has been off more than it could chew,
and what you've done is only going to make people be that much stronger and fight for free speech that much more.
But I'll say this, shame on the mainstream corporate media, shame on the mainstream corporate media
for not defending the First Amendment, but instead a tap dogging calling for federal regulators to shut down independent, free press, working with big tech.
We are in process of developing a whole series of techniques which will enable the controlling oligarchy
to get people actually to love their servitude. People can be made to enjoy a state of affairs
which by any decent standard they ought not to enjoy.
I have sure better start from the beginning.
I have sure better start from the beginning.
I have sure better start from the beginning.
Too many kids are what's making the planet worse.
A lot of these kids come from bad gene pools. They don't have stable parents making good decisions.
Rectory containing vaccines may help not harm kids according to two new studies in the journal Pediatric.
These new studies suggest that the opposite, that the preservatives may actually be associated with improved behavior and mental performance.
Fluoride in water is supposed to fight tooth decay, but could it also cause cancer?
Turns out the government had the right under U.S. law to conduct secret testing on the American public under specific conditions.
We have to work with dark side or we will spend time in the shadows.
Any attempt to achieve world order must be the work of the devil. Well, join me. I'm glad to sit here with the right hand to see.
There's a need for a new world order.
Sunday in the next few years, a solution will emerge.
Sunday in the next few years, a solution will emerge.
Sunday in the next few years, a solution will emerge.
So now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars dot com articles to share the videos to tell people by the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars dot com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Alex Jones show.
Humans have now achieved what the ancients would see as God like parents.
Now technology and knowledge is increasing exponentially at a rate.
And you have the establishment and the engineers and the technocrats supremely arrogant that it is impossible.
For any of this to go wrong and that humanity just needs to be made obsolete and that the culling of humanity and the replacing of humanity with this new silicon creature is some great holy work.
Now we've had Bill Joy we've had Elon Musk we've had a lot of these people that have been on the inside come out and tell you this but you can read this in the writings now stuff I covered 20 years ago.
The things I covered in films like in game 11 years ago are now mainstream news.
And you know the average person thinking about AI will show some Philip K Dick robot.
But what AI really is is systems tracking humans and that know what human decisions are going to be before we make them to control economies and rigged systems and vertically consolidate and integrate and create systems of total control.
And it gives the authoritarians levels of domination unrivaled.
And that's why you see all these top scientists coming out warning about AI.
And you got China that is unbridled controlling populations and just doing absolutely horrible things their political dissidents Buddhist Christians you name it with Apple and Google moving over there.
And of course Apple and Google aren't going to work with the Pentagon because the Pentagon is bad because America is bad.
And China had to kill 100 million people to build the utopia.
They're not bad.
They are collectivist like Tim Cook.
They're billionaire generals that don't pay taxes because they're communist.
This is about elitism ladies and gentlemen.
Apple's coming out with a new patent.
It's on infowars.com and drugreport.com with a plan to put their workers in cages on top giant robots.
So that no one can steal goods when you're inside the factory.
A human goes and gets in the robot.
Can we show that graph?
I told just there it is.
And then that sits on top a giant multi ton robot.
That's what 18 feet tall.
So whatever you can dream of it's being done you're being replaced.
It's funny to them.
And so if you look at the news what's happening.
Google doesn't show up for congressional hearings.
Apple does whatever they want.
They've already left.
They're already in China.
Congress is 10, 20 years behind.
They don't even know what they're doing.
The intelligence agencies do.
And half of those are working for the globalists.
The other half are working for Trump.
There's a civil war within even the White House.
As traders struggle to keep the American people from getting control of our country
back from this global corporate Chinese combine.
Just like England can't get out and Scotland can't get out of the EU.
They never asked to enter the EU.
They had a vote and said we're going to leave.
And they said no you're not.
We've got an EU army that'll stop you.
And you're going to let your borders be open.
And you're going to bring in unlimited people.
We're going to shut you down.
So here's the takeaway.
When you sit back and you see in one day a month ago,
350 op-ed pieces in major papers saying Trump is going to kill reporters.
Trump is going to cause violence.
And you see hundreds and hundreds of other articles just this week saying Alex Jones,
this show had to be banned because he's going to make people with guns kill people.
That was the headline.
And it was in the London Independent.
It was in the New York Times.
It was in Yahoo News.
It was just syndicated.
I saw it three places.
And that I'm mean.
And the young Turks said that I was rude to the CNN reporter who was having me banned.
So that's a form of violence.
And I had a leftist come over and say, I want you off the air.
Your speech is violence.
When the New York Times lies about WMDs against millions killed, that's okay.
But when I say we have tyranny, this is out of control.
How dare you ban me?
How dare you act like a Hitler youth?
That's what the Nazis did with censor and burn books.
I'm banned for bullying a public figure in a public space who is actually bullying me.
So here's the takeaway.
They are moving with massive PR campaigns.
The conservatives and libertarians and Christians and President Trump and I particularly am going to cause mass shootings.
Remember when Antifa said we're going to come to your congressman's house and kill them.
We're going to come to the ICE agents' houses and kill them and they dox their homes.
And I showed Tucker Carlson covering it.
They never showed that on there.
They just said, Joan says get battle rifles ready for the media.
Never said that.
I said get your rifles ready to protect yourself and your home if you've been doxed by Antifa.
When they move forward with this takeover, if we're unable to stop them, probably before the election, they will come.
On the same night to targeted homes and they're going to try to kill you.
That's what they said they're going to do.
And I said they said they're coming to kill you.
They've already killed people.
They've already shot Scalise.
You should know this is happening.
How did every major channel in the country respond?
None of them showed the clip.
None of them showed any of it.
They said Joan said attack the media with guns.
And Oliver Darcy and Jack Dorsey and all of them went with it and said yes, yes, Jones.
Jones is coming with his guns.
Now what does that tell you?
Can you do two plus two equals four?
What did Bill Clinton say in 96?
When he was 15 points behind in 1995 and he was going to lose the presidency, what happened?
He was going to lose to Bob Dole.
Oklahoma City happened.
100% Eric Holder and his FBI, we know the names of the agents that were there.
They were so arrogant.
They checked into a hotel, bragged about it in front of people.
We know the name of the head of the hostage rescue team.
We know the head of the ATF guy.
We know everybody that was there.
I have witnesses that saw him.
They killed some of the people that were witnesses with that.
Not everybody.
I have police officer witnesses that have come on.
Don Brown and you name it.
One cop they killed, cop of the year.
He told his wife everything about it.
He was the first cop there.
That was Terence Yakin.
So I know the names.
I have the hotel receipts.
We're on that daily.
We know who bombed the building and they did that to blame the right wing.
They set up an army soldier who they'd used to go infiltrate militias around the country
as the guy they then sheet dipped and cut out to say had done it.
Then they threatened to kill his family if he spoke out.
I know the folks involved.
I even know people that work with the FBI and ATF, former special operations people that
get hired for the job of infiltrating today.
So I'm going to leave it at that, but I know everything.
Now, I know when I see a PR rollout so that everybody, when they have the mass shooting
or the bombing, and it's blamed on an Alex Jones fan and a Trump supporter, everyone
would have already heard that I've been pre-demonized so no one would want to stand up for me.
And people will say, well, I guess we've got to take his website down itself and take him
off the air.
And then in the aftermath of the blown up nursery or the shot up school, and then saying, Alex
Jones fan did it, the minute you don't stand up for me, within days, drudge reports going
to be taken down, Rush Limbaugh, everyone will be taken off the air.
They'll have riots everywhere.
They're preparing to take the president out, seeing it even has an article that Pence is
preparing to remove Trump 25th Amendment.
They're sticking stickers on the president's back, saying he's a piece of garbage.
They're putting things up over the door that say, crazy town.
They're running PsyOps right now to overthrow our government.
And the chai comms and the globalists are all behind it.
And when we see the American people rally behind the president with 47 days left, we'll, with
47 days left, we'll see you wake up to this and understand that this is how authoritarians
work.
They pick one person to demonize first.
They set the pressure to destroy them.
And then once that's accepted with that one person, all of their dominoes fall.
I am domino number one in the false flag.
They're preparing any day now to do it.
Healthcare reform is confusing.
But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to
afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the
cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Let's talk tough.
Let's talk comfort.
Let's talk about down home value made in the USA blue jeans.
Like you wore as a kid.
Remember?
There's a place down in Tennessee where they make blue diamond gusset jeans.
They so pride in every stitch guarantee you love the way they fit.
They put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most.
Blue diamond gussets got it.
Others don't.
We're good old fashioned comfort.
Get diamond gusset jeans.
Every stitch guaranteed.
And our Defender motorcycle gene comes cavilar reinforced.
See them at gusset.com.
That's gusset.com.
Or call 888-848-7738.
That's 888-848-7738.
Diamond gusset jeans got it.
Others don't.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth.
One of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds.
The bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
We're all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com.
Subscribe to the free podcast.
Just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com.
And give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com for tonight's show, how they can download the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information and point out this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
Waging war on corruption.
Now I got some into how they're planning a false flag to blame me.
First, they pick a few things that I didn't say or didn't do out of context to demonize me.
They say it over and over again and say I won't stop being mean to the Sandy Hook people when I'm not.
And they'll never have me say that I said that I believe they died.
And then they say that I'm going to cause violence.
And they say Trump's going to cause violence.
And then when there's violence, they say we did it when they're the ones pushing.
Coming up in the last segment of this hour, we have the founder of the walk away movement joining us here in about a minute.
I'm going to cover this article on a news day.
This angry man act is growing tired.
William F. B. O'Reilly.
And he goes on to say, Jones is having a press conference saying nobody died at Sandy Hook.
Now I said in that press conference, I believe people died at Sandy Hook.
And I apologize for what I said being twisted out of context, but the media is the ones that keep saying that I said that.
Then he goes on to say he wants to kill me by stabbing me in the carotid artery with a knife.
He says a pin.
So I'm dehumanized.
I need to come to an end.
I need to be totally banned.
And he says, who's going to stop me if I kill Alex Jones?
And that's why they're trying to dox our offices.
That's why they're harassing us because this is a group of scum.
Did you see Jones harassing senators the whole ways of Washington?
His neck veins were purple and bulging.
A nano millimeter from bursting.
A straight pin or big pin would do it.
I just kept thinking super quick job.
Hardly anyone would see and who would turn me in if they did.
So I'm in the same article.
I'm calling for violence, which I'm not.
I'm hurting children, which I'm not.
And I need to be killed.
All I can say is, folks, we're trying to fix this peacefully.
We're not offensively doing anything.
But the violent revolution never kicks off, buddy.
You don't have to worry about me.
But I got a significant suspicion in your town.
Santa Claus has got a list.
He's checking it twice.
Marking down has been naughty and nice.
I don't talk about violence, Mr. O'Reilly.
We're going to our guest in a moment.
He's been having some Skype problems.
So I'm going to cover that in the final segment of this hour
because they're hyping up for the revolution
and that they're going to be violent and say we are.
It's like we fixed the economy and they say they fixed it.
And you're like, but does it make sense?
I know. It's like the 49ers won the Super Bowl.
And then they go, oh, but the Cowboys did.
Or you're like, I just saw the 49ers win.
This is what they do.
They just upside down world.
Briefly, we're going to make it through this.
Everybody needs to pray.
We need to get close to God.
We need to speak out.
We don't want to be intimidated or bullied by these folks.
We want to try to be peaceful as long.
But like they said at Lexington Concord,
the Red Codes were marching up three to one of the militia.
And the famous quote by the captain was they pull that quote up for later.
He said, listen, he said, we don't want to fight the starter today.
Don't pull the trigger first.
We're going to be peaceful.
But if they attack us and they pull the trigger,
they're looking for a fight, they're going to get one.
And it's the same thing.
We're not going to pull the trigger first.
But you've got the deep state and all these globalists just hyped up.
And I'm like the toy they use to train dogs to be attack dogs.
I'm the training dog.
And once they get them a taste for blood,
they're lining everybody up for this.
And these are really dangerous people.
Can you imagine if I wrote an op-ed about killing a reporter?
I got taken off Twitter, they say,
because I talked to the guy and called him a Nazi
that got me banned off all the platforms.
That's what Nazis do.
So please support us.
We've got it in the Ultimate Turmeric Special today.
It is about to sell out.
The Ultimate Bone Broth, 1995.
Amazing quality.
So good for your body.
That is a super deal.
That's got to end today.
The Brain Force Special, a bunch of specials will end today.
I've been so busy.
I haven't come up with a new special.
That's why this has been extended.
But it's got to end.
All the big specials.
Thank you all for your support without you.
We couldn't do it.
Now, Brandon Strock is our guest for this segment and the next.
He's launched the amazing, just walk away, walk away movement.
Hashtag walk away.
We're 57 days out from the election.
And I know he's got some big things cooking and happening.
I want to talk about his experiences
and how the movement's getting steamed.
I know it's been censored some by Twitter and others.
He's there on Twitter.
So people can follow him for now at least at US Minority.
So Brandon, thanks for coming on with us again.
Thanks for having me back.
So give us an update.
We got a longer segment coming up.
Just give an update on what's happened since you were on a few months ago.
A lot has happened.
The campaign continues to grow and thrive.
We have at this point a publication called the Red Pill Pundit did sort of the analytics
for us and discovered that we have at this point about 300 over 370,000 patriots in the
walk away campaign.
If you take into account all different social media platforms, it's really incredible.
People are, you know, giving their testimonials using the hashtag.
But at this point we really, it's time for us to blossom a little bit more and become
more than just a social media testimonial campaign.
So we're actually expanding and coming up with some really great ways for people to
get involved like in the real world.
It's very exciting.
Again, so many people joined the movement.
I know it really scares the Democrats.
Yeah.
Well, you know, what happened to Alex is that, you know, as the campaign kind of exploded
because we're barely over three months old, we got a good amount of attention from the
media, particularly the media sort of on the right and in the center.
But the left wing media, of course, blatantly ignored us during those early weeks and months.
And then when we finally got to the point where we were no longer ignorable by them,
they did start putting out stories.
But they've never reached out to me for a comment.
They've never reached out to me for an interview.
And what they did instead was put out stories and validating the campaign and the voices
of the people saying that they are Russian bots, Russian propaganda, paid actors.
They said that they are pictures that have been stolen from Shutterstock with fake testimonials
attached to them.
I mean, literally just, and it's so interesting because one of the things of many things I
wanted to accomplish with this campaign was giving a voice back to the silent majority.
The people in the country who have just been steamrolled over and over again ignored.
The media doesn't talk to them.
They talk about them.
But, you know, they're doing it to them all over again.
I mean, finally, these people stepped up and made their voices heard and they are being
completely disregarded and invalidated by the left wing media.
You're right.
And I also saw them say, oh, you're a Russian agent.
And anytime any other country votes for sovereignty, they're a Russian agent.
Or the Brazilian Trump that's so popular that he's tried to kill, he's a Russian agent.
I mean, I didn't know the Russians had such magical powers.
Yeah.
And there's other countries in the world, too.
What is the obsession with Russia?
I mean, these people, they need more creativity.
It's just boring at this point.
I mean, choose another scary country.
If the Russians had all this power, they wouldn't be having all the problems.
I mean, what type of magical creatures have this power?
I'll tell you, the Communist Chinese have a billion, 400 million people, and there are
the ones that are taken over.
And I'm not against the Chinese people, the Communist Chinese themselves.
And that's evident by what we see.
The Pentagon, Google won't even work with the Pentagon, but they moved to China.
We're going to come back and talk about some of the exciting folks that have walked away
from China.
Your predictions for the big red wave, I think we're going to see.
And that's why the left is panicking right now and so much more.
Brandon Straka is our guest.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
I burn with desire each time my heart fans the fire through that old flame that burns inside of me.
We are back live, ladies and gentlemen.
We have a very, very clear picture of what's going on when you study all the different globalist activities around the world.
You see the formula they're using and then you end up even reading white papers and documents where they admit the plan.
And it is to break your will.
There are stabbings and acid attacks and car attacks every day in Europe now.
I've got a stack of them from just this weekend and today.
And then the police won't even respond to those.
But they'll respond to someone saying mean things.
Think about that.
It's crazy.
But that's about rubbing it in your face and training you to accept anything.
It's like in the same program on CNN they'll say Trump's trying to censor the media.
He's a total tyrant when he's not.
He's just speaking back against them.
He wants violence against us and then they'll go next up Antifa attacks Nazis.
That means anybody to disagree with and they're good guys.
And then next up we need to ban Alan Jones off the Internet.
And then they have hundreds and hundreds of news programs on MSNBC.
CNN ABC News lie about me and go when will he be taken off the Internet?
And then now when will he be taken off the radio?
And when will he be taken off his own website?
When they start taking the app you pay for.
Thousands of dollars have it reviewed.
It's accepted.
It goes to number one in news has five stars 18,000 plus ratings over two million downloads.
And last Friday at 7.05 they pull it out of the app store send us a message and put in its place the Huffington Post.
Like we're not just going to stab you.
We're going to rub salt in the womb.
We're not going to just crap on you.
We're going to rub it in.
How's that feel?
How like when they banned our YouTube channel that had two and a half million subscribers and a couple billion views.
Just one channel.
They had links to the dead channel.
They said no, here's your new channels.
And it was Stephen Colbert and the Democratic Party.
It was like five links to the Democrats.
That's like leaving an ace of spades card.
You know, like the Phoenix teams were doing Vietnam and they're going to kill the whole village.
They're sending a message to the next village.
And they'd stick an ace of spades and whoever the leader of the village's mouth was.
We took you down.
We gangsta.
Damn, it feels good to be a gangsta.
Of course, they were always gangsters.
They're not liberals that are out of control that have gotten derangement syndrome.
That's the low level.
They're fully conscious.
And there are so many threats coming in that just since I got this last threat 15 minutes ago from news day.
Another.
Threat came in.
So you got news day saying somebody needs to go to an Alex Jones event and jam a knife into his carotid arteries.
He says there are a big number two pencil and he said it FB O'Reilly on Twitter.
People say, Hey, should we go file complaints on him?
Don't even hold your breath.
When you say you need to go to Alex Jones event and ram a blonde object and murder him.
He'll probably be made a manager at Twitter.
And then we got this in full wars.com.
Broadway star jokes about Trump assassination.
Where's John Wilkes Booth when you need him?
She asked a well-known Broadway actress jokes about President Trump's assassination by referencing the murder of President Abraham Lincoln.
My answer to that is where is John Wilkes Booth when you need him?
Cook said in a response to a TMZ reporter asking if it's okay to be pro-Trump and Hollywood musical.
Now you're going to ask me said the sketchy who the hell John Wilkes Booth is her husband who was by her side pointed out that Wilkes killed presidents.
No more on he killed one president.
And then a doctor is the only other person convicted that helped him named Dr. Mudd.
And I looked it up.
Guess who is from the same family in Virginia?
Yes, Phil Mudd who says he wants to kill Trump on CNN and that the deep state's going to kill Trump.
But that's okay.
I went over to Oliver Darcy who brags he got me banned all over by lying about me.
And I said you act like a Nazi burning books.
Oh my God, you don't call an SJW public figure in a public capacity.
I can see their bullying rules if they enforce them.
He was at dinner and I walked over like the left does and poured coffee on his head or something.
But I wouldn't do that.
Oh, that's me.
That happened to.
Oh, sorry.
They just talk about ramming pencils in my neck and call me a Nazi and get me deplatformed.
But when I walk over and I'm sorry, he looks like a child molester.
I'm not saying Oliver Darcy is a child molester.
He just if I was if I was typecasting people for a Hollywood movie about child kidnappers, him and Brian Stelter would be stars.
I mean, they just but we know this, he molests the truth.
He hates freedom.
And if we can't beat this guy politically, we get what we deserve.
He also looks like a possum.
I've seen a possum once he's something really nasty and looks that way.
Look how that weird smile it has on space.
I mean, he looks, you know, and I got plenty of things to say.
I could sit there and talk about how evil he is in his background.
By the way, you didn't think I didn't know I'd get banned when I did that.
Oh, you wanted to be banned.
No, I wanted to live in a free country.
I'm not going to shut up.
She read this guy.
The Angry Man Act is growing tired.
He goes on to say, Jones should be gone soon.
The Enforced Creator is looking dangerously apocalyptic, even for him.
Yeah, I'm going in and standing up to those creatures and doing all this is easy.
I mean, I'm focused.
I've never felt more alive, more committed.
I'm pretty calm compared to what I usually am because it's just we're in the thick of the battle now.
Did you see Jones harassing senators?
Oh, the Democrats just chain themselves and throw things on people and yell and scream and take over committee hearings.
I didn't do that.
I just walked over and said, hey, Americans are being censored.
Do something, Rubio.
I said it very nice at first.
He goes, I don't know who you are.
So that's harassing.
See, I'm not allowed.
I'm just a slave.
Did you see Jones harassing senators in the hallways of Washington?
His neck veins were purple and bulging a nano millimeter from bursting.
A straight pin or a BIC would do it.
I kept thinking super quick jab.
Hardly anyone would see.
And who would turn me in if they did because then he lies about standing hook and dehumanizes me.
So he wants to dehumanize me.
Now I can be killed.
But then he flips it so he doesn't arrest it and said, no, Jones will be dead soon anyways of a heart attack or whatever.
Maybe Quitter was wrong to take him off.
I tell you what, William F.B. O'Reilly, you couldn't raise any money like these famous guys that say they want to fight me and then back out.
So it's not worth it to have a match with you.
But I'll do bare knuckles with you in the ring.
No time limit.
You're a big man, buddy.
I tell you what, you can even have a pencil at the start.
I don't need anything.
Just let's get in the ring with me, brother.
You want to go to Indonesia where it's legal?
I'll get in that ring with you.
You're a big man, huh?
No, you want somebody else to kill me.
But you don't think I don't know if people want to kill me, son?
If I get killed, it's not a victory for you, dumbass.
I went into this willingly.
So understand that.
We're going to go to break, come back.
Joe Salente's coming up.
I want to take some calls in the hour before that.
I want to get into the false flag that's imminent and what's coming and how we stop it and the total rebellion inside the White House against the president.
Remember, we told you that a year and a half ago, they're sabotaging him within the White House.
He's totally surrounded by enemies.
They're putting stickers on his back, making fun of him.
These are cowards.
This is what this nation has bred now, is a bunch of weasels.
And he's in the swamp up to his knees.
Don't forget the best colloidal silver products, the best nano silver salt products, the highest quality FDA approved for over the counter.
It's all info or store.com.
Big specials on the highest quality turmeric, 95% of humanoid bodies is about to sell out.
So this is the last day.
This is the last day of this weekend, but I haven't done anything special yet.
What I'm doing is tomorrow bone broth.
That special is going to end 50% off as well.
infowarstore.com, infowarstore.com.
Great products that you and your family can use and are great for your life.
And it helps fund their operation.
So it's a win-win-win sign up for auto ship additional 10% off, cancel anytime.
infowarstore.com.
We'll be right back.
Info Wars Life is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as
Myco ZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality
products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today at infowarstore.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered.
With even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Infowar's life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout.
With the power of ultra high quality bone broth.
One of the most popular health products on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles.
Digestion, tendons and ligaments.
While also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients.
Such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Hello this is Hank Hill and I'm telling you what you need to listen to Alex Jones.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
infowarstore.com, yeah.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
They're less than 57 days out for the most important election in modern history.
And I've covered the false flags they've got planned to blame me and the president against the media.
I've covered Obama doubling down and taking complete credit for the economy and then telling a string of lies.
Just unbelievable. All of it completely verifiable in seconds to be complete horse crap.
It's just amazing. It is truly amazing.
And more and more Democrats are calling for me to be killed.
Meanwhile, the hurricane is speeding up. They thought it'd be a cat four. Now it's a cat six.
If it actually hits where it's currently trending towards North Carolina and South Carolina, it is going to be devastation.
And so obviously Trump better be ready to swoop in there with maximum aid. Because even though he's done the best job of any president in modern history of being on top of stuff.
I mean, Obama wouldn't even visit after hurricanes hit.
And then Bush is like doing a great job browning. No, you didn't do a great job.
A lot of it's where the hurricane hit. The New Orleans police are just so corrupt.
But a lot of that doesn't have another area as the south. Louisiana is a great state, but then give me a break.
New Orleans is corrupt as it gets. I mean, it just gives Chicago a run for its money.
Police like dragging safe side of businesses down the street behind their vehicles, robbing Walmarts.
Oh, my goodness. So with South getting hits a little bit more like Japan getting hit, there's less crime in the south.
Bad things happen. But we'll see, ladies and gentlemen, pray for everybody.
This is certainly a crazy time to be alive right now.
So we'll look into all of that coming up the next segment.
Also plan to give the phone number out and take some of your phone calls on the specific issues I've raised and some first time callers.
Also, Stephen Colbert really attacked me and had a celebration that I was taking off Twitter.
You also got Obama falsely claiming that Trump won't decry Nazis. He said you had bad groups on both sides.
Yeah, some of the new right people are Nazis. Most of them are feds. It's come out and they have a right to march and they're not the ones calling for violence.
And then they're bad folks.
Antifa came looking for violence and the police in Charlottesville collided everybody together.
So I want to play that clip where Obama says that Trump needs to be able to criticize Nazis.
Again, that's like saying Trump said all Mexicans are criminals. Where's the clip of that? There is no clip. It's a lie.
He said bad groups on both sides. Well, and technically I don't like the Nazis, but they're not the ones that started the fights.
So Antifa are the communist dirtbags. Just because Nazis, they don't like Nazis, doesn't mean you have a right to beat them up.
I don't like communism or a right to do that.
Let's go ahead and go to that clip of Obama. Here it is.
It did not start with Donald Trump. He is a symptom, not the cause.
Well, this disease has got our economy exploding.
He's just capitalizing on resentments that politicians have been fanning for years.
Well, did he let us stand up to discrimination?
And we're sure as heck supposed to stand up clearly and unequivocally to Nazi sympathizers.
How hard can that be? How hard can that be?
Obama has such a big moral high ground and then he sits there, a race pimple, a limousine liberal, lying to everyone to their face about what Trump said.
It's incredible the way they operate.
Trump, by the way, waited a few hours after that riot to talk to Homeland Security and say, who are these groups?
There were miles on all of them and was remarkably accurate in what he said.
We're all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com.
Subscribe to the free podcast. Just click on the link.
Whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com.
Give us your emails so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com for my show. How they can download the free Android and iPhone apps.
How they can then reach out to others with the information and point out, this is the verboten info.
This is what they don't want you to see.
Now only 56 days, 22 hours, 53 minutes, 46 seconds, until the official midterm elections of 2018.
Kick off and go into the stratosphere and the future becomes the present, becomes the past.
It's all happening now.
And your host, Alex Jones, we're now into hour number three, Gerald Salente, is coming up the fourth hour of the Great Trends Forecaster.
I want to open the phones up this hour, specifically on the four big issues I've raised for first-time callers.
The four issues I've raised for first-time callers.
And that is, you understand we're at war with communist China.
You understand that they announced two years ago that they were officially involved in fifth and sixth generation warfare,
economic warfare, cultural warfare, taking over infrastructure, buying off the universities,
letting corporate heads of tech companies pay zero taxes, live like above the law kings in China.
They can do whatever they want.
That's now all official.
And even the New York Times came out and said they built a great firewall in China,
and now they're using it against Alex Jones.
And once the president said, for me, it's being launched against you.
And now, as I predicted five weeks ago, it's now happened.
They are purging everybody from Twitter, Facebook, Google.
The heroes have been gauzing, Republicans running for Congress, Republicans that are in Congress.
And they sit there to the Republicans and tell them we're not censoring or shadow banning you to their faces.
And then Google, who won't even work with our own Pentagon, will work with the Chinese military.
You heard that right.
Has moved to China and won't even show up to the hearings because they have bought off those politicians for nothing.
Google might give a senator a hundred thousand dollars for the reelection, might give five, ten thousand dollars per member of Congress.
Chicken feed for that trillion-dollar company.
Same thing with Apple, over a trillion-dollar company.
The Chinese are communists. They're organized. They're focused.
They're brought in as owners of the company. It's done. The deal's been made.
And I'm talking about it. And I'm publicly saying I'm getting information to the president.
And I told you he'd move and start acting. And he is. Get ready this week.
The word is it's by the end of the week because they've got people sabotaging trying to hold him up.
And that's why they're getting so desperate because foreign powers bought off our politicians and they bought off our leaders.
And they think they own us. They said, hey, we got a deal.
We own your debt. We own Hollywood. We let you have these big slave factories.
You guys have made trillions of dollars with us.
Now bend over.
Do you understand? It's all state-run telecoms. The Chinese government runs it.
If you're a radio listener, we're putting up The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Verge.
I broke all this years ago.
And so now I'm paying. And see, all these leftists and all these sellouts and all these globalists, they look at me and they go,
Hi, Alex is getting banned on Twitter and Facebook.
Oh, he's getting sued. Oh, people are going to kill you.
Uh-huh.
Major news publications are calling for you to be murdered.
You just joined us last hour.
Newsday is calling for you to be murdered.
They say somebody, find him in public jama, pencil into his crowded arteries, kill him now.
Get the juggler.
They're making their move.
So China, we're at war with China and the traitors.
And how do we get it across the average leftist or American hater that, hey, China's really doing this.
We're really being sold out. They'll just laugh at you and say, yeah, I know.
So what? America sucks.
America calls it the Chinese century. I mean, the communist Chinese century.
So we're going to talk about that topic.
The total treason going on in Congress against the president inside the White House, hundreds and hundreds of people in there.
People are sticking stickers on the, on his back saying he's Mr. Dumbass.
They're putting signs above the door that say entering crazy town.
And it's all a bunch of people vitriolically whipped up and then CNN goes see 25th amendment.
He's unfit. He can't lead the White House. It's a disarray.
Well, he's got some of his policies through despite being up there on the parapet surrounded by enemies.
And that shows how great a president this guy is.
And this is the perfect leftist, limp-risted, you know, nanny state coup is a bunch of whining, bitching people,
nipping at his heels, sticking stickers on his back.
It's all a rest of development weirdness.
They'd be executed in China for that, but they don't care.
They just go along with state-run media and the swamp and they all are scared for working for Trump.
They all get threatened and they all get told, we know about you're not paying taxes.
We know about all this.
And so you better roll over to us or we're going to set you up.
You've got a bunch of cowards.
So people ask, well, why do you do this?
Because other people stood up and that's why we have freedom.
When you don't, you become a communist China or a Venezuelan.
And so it's in my DNA, when I'm facing a bunch of tyrants and a bunch of dishonorable scum,
they're blind to being honorable. They're blind to strength.
They're blind to my genetic line being very honorable people.
And by the way, winners, super winners, and you just don't get it.
We built the good civilization, the open free society.
We're the true liberals, not you.
And you think we're fools because we're not sociopaths like you.
So there's that issue.
They're obviously preparing a false flag against me and Trump saying everywhere we're going to cause violence against the media while they hot the violence.
What do we do about that with 57 days left?
It's just an incredible time to be alive right now.
Absolutely incredible.
And then the hurricane.
I won't talk about the hurricane to be a cat six coming in.
We're going to get into all of that.
The toll free number to join us is 877-789-2539, 877-789-2539.
First time callers.
Or if you called before but didn't get through, obviously last week those folks covered the head of the line.
If you got on last week and then got put on hold, I think it's everybody, 877-789-ALEX.
I want to hear from you.
We'll go right to your calls next segment.
But I want to play this.
Maxine Waters is back at it again with her impeachment, impeachment, impeachment.
And like Trump said last week, let's queue that up too if we can.
I never got to that.
He said in the speech, he's being very honest.
He said, you better vote or I could get impeached.
And he goes, I don't know why we got a 4.2, it's about a 4.8 growth rate.
And everything's turning around.
He goes, I told you, you know, cut taxes and cut regulations and say we're open for business again.
And you know, I really believe in you, but they're coming after me.
And he goes, I don't know why they are.
And he goes, I don't know what they'll do if they get rid of me.
I mean, well, that's a whole other topic if they kill him.
So let's go ahead and go to the latest from Mad Maxine Waters.
Here it is.
I say, I'm in this fight.
I'm in this fight and I'm not going to move.
And as you know, there's a difference in how some of our leadership talk about how we should handle all of this.
They say, Maxine, please don't say impeachment anymore.
And when they say that, I say impeachment, impeachment.
impeachment.
Wow.
By the way, we have Clyde Lewis on.
I've heard a show a lot.
It's a big syndicated show because I'm before George Norrie on the Coast to Coast Network.
But he's really smart about the takeover plan, the CIA offices.
He reminded me of some stuff I didn't have.
I'd forgotten about the Internet kill switch.
He's on tomorrow for, I think, two hours.
And then we've got Eric Bowling ran to him at Trump Hotel.
He's coming in to be interviewed and I'm going to be interviewed by him for a CRTV stuff he's doing.
So Eric Bowling is talking to him about his son.
He got tears in his eyes.
He's talking about his son.
He mentioned his son all of a sudden.
Tears were in his eyes.
So he's going to be in studio with us as well on Wednesday if we're even here.
Because I'll be honest with you.
I mean, every day we're on the air now is pretty precious because they keep escalating and it's not taking us off air.
And so now they're moving into some other areas.
And people say, wow, doesn't it scare you?
No, it makes me know I was right.
And I've got to be all in now and really man up to not man up from fear.
Man up to have energy and professionalism to really give this a good ending.
It may be the end, but we've got to finish strong.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs.
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com.
We're call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Goberkey.com.
Let's talk tough. Let's talk comfort.
Let's talk about down home value made in the USA blue jeans like you wore as a kid.
Remember, there's a place down in Tennessee where they make blue diamond gusset jeans.
They so pride in every stitch. Guarantee you love the way they fit.
They put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most.
Blue diamond gussets got it.
We're good old fashioned comfort. Get diamond gusset jeans.
Every stitch guaranteed.
And our Defender motorcycle jean comes cavilar reinforced.
See them at gusset.com or call 888-848-7738.
That's 888-848-7738. Diamond gusset jeans got it. Others don't.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com
you are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or triple-A2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the info war
to fight the globalists and live in a free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest,
most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido,
workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I want to be clear, Alex Jones, you're back live from the Giundice.
You have Democrats everywhere saying kill Republicans, kill Trump, kill me in the news today.
The news day.
You have them allied with Communist China.
You have China with Google and Apple moving there and Google this year in July saying
we're not going to work with the Pentagon anymore.
We're going to give all our AI to China.
Those are all litmus tests by China to go totally tax exempt.
They won't have to move their money around the world to be tax exempt.
They're making the authoritarian plunge and they're censoring at the same time.
So when I say this could be the end of info wars, I mean the end of the country,
the end of Trump, the end of prosperity, the end of your speech.
You understand?
Well, I don't mean my end.
I mean our end.
That is a very conservative assessment of where we are and what these people are trying to do.
And you watch the weird frenzy of the minions of this system that couldn't fight their way out of a wet paper bag
that have become fat and lazy and stupid on the largesse of American freedom.
Then working with every foreign corrupt organization and institution against the country
because it's the only place they'd be allowed to act like that and operate like that.
So I'm asking callers, what do we do about that?
I said this morning on a couple phone calls to people.
I said there really isn't anything Trump couldn't do legally and lawfully at this point.
They're working with foreign powers.
They're trying to overthrow the election.
They're anti-free speech tyrants.
Trump legitimately could arrest the heads of the Democratic Party,
all these people that have been involved in this, but he doesn't have the justice department.
I mean, George Washington, say in his first administration, if something like this was going on,
he would fix bayonets and march with the army and grab these people.
Because they're not Americans.
They're traitors like Benedict Arnold.
And they're the ones saying they're coming after us.
They're the ones saying they're going to kill us.
They're the ones out alive with the biggest mass murders in history.
So we told you they're into children's blood.
We told you they're devil worshipers.
We told you they're pedophiles.
It's all coming out.
These are bad people.
Here's another article.
Young blood can be the secret to long lasting life.
Health study.
What are the elites into?
Children's blood.
Intervenously.
These are vampires.
And just everything I've told you over the years is all coming true and being admitted or is all out in the open now.
And that's why they had to get rid of our YouTube channel.
We had videos on there on every subject that just kept getting confirmed.
The last few weeks of videos, we're going to upload very soon to info wars and to real.video.
Because you watch it and I'm laying out everything before they ban us that's now in the news.
All of it.
And that's what freaks me out.
I was like, this guy knows exactly what we're up to.
Get rid of him.
Now, I'm going to go to your calls, as I said.
And I specifically want to get into these topics.
Let's go.
We're going to go to Dan and we're going to go to Justin.
Dan in Canada, you're on the air.
Thanks for holding.
Hi, Alex.
I just wanted to say it's one of the great honors of my life to be able to speak to you.
I've been listening since 2003.
I was a high school student then and I'm a young man.
And as early 30s now, a total patriot, we support you up here in Canada.
And I wanted to remind you and all the info warriors out there that the spirit of humanity is rising.
And that in these matters, we're doing a lot of practical things.
Hashtag walk away is brilliant.
There's brilliant ways to educate yourself out there like the killing of Uncle Sam.
Amazing book that'll get you up to speed on the history of the occult and the globalists and what their ultimate plan for domination was.
But I also want to stress, maybe most importantly that in all of these matters, the battle is the Lord.
And Deuteronomy 32, 30 and 31, it says,
How can one take on a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight?
For their rock with the small r is not like our rock with the capital r.
Jesus Christ, the solid rock on which we stand.
If one prays, we can tackle a thousand demons.
If two prays, we can tackle ten thousand demons.
And if we continue to pray, that number grows exponentially.
And there were thousands, millions, thousands, tens of millions of people on their knees on election night praying for Donald Trump.
And it moves mountains.
It absolutely.
No, I agree. We need prayer worldwide.
Talk about election meddling.
There's video David Hogg saying, you know, get Canadians to give money or whatever.
Michael Bourneau is going to do that.
But how about election meddling praying to God?
That's legal.
Everybody around the world should be praying for a huge landslide for these Republicans.
I know Ted Cruz wasn't perfect during the campaign.
He did some bad things.
But he is light years better than Beto.
There's a total snake and they're going to try to steal it in Texas.
They want to turn the state putrid blue.
We've got to vote for Ted Cruz in Texas.
Everybody, I'm going to go out and vote for him.
You need to go out and vote for him.
Everybody needs to vote for Ted Cruz.
Everybody else.
Ted Cruz is a great voting record.
And he did some slimy stuff in the campaign as he got hooked up with when back.
But you know what?
I forgive him that we need to aggressively support Ted Cruz.
People need to absolutely get behind him a million percent.
God bless you.
I was having dinner with my mom and my children and some of her friends that I've known since
I was a little kid.
And we were talking about how they've been listening for years.
Now, when I really started calling them the name of Christ and everything in the last
decade or so, they really started coming after me.
Because I used to kind of leave the show.
I wouldn't say secular.
I had passwords on stuff and didn't make it a secret that I was a Christian.
But I began to get more and more of his point out.
That's the spiritual fight.
We're dealing with devil worshipers.
And I didn't like you think about in some kind of book or something or movie.
It's energetic.
It's spiritual.
And they're feeding on children.
They're feeding on America.
They're feeding on strength.
They like bad things.
They've tuned into something very wicked.
We're going to go to break them back and hurry through your calls.
I'm going to get to a lot of calls.
I don't understand what that was a powerful caller and more on Hurricane Florence rapidly
intensifying, likely to hit North or South Carolina Thursday as a category six from
other underground and their meteorologists there as well.
Finally, as I like to say before we go to break, we have the ultimate turmeric formula.
It's 95% trachumenoid.
Nobody else has that.
We want top firms in the country to make it.
We put a lot of money into each bottle.
If you don't know what turmeric does and we've got a bunch of other herbs that supercharge it,
research it.
It does better for me personally if I have a sprain or other things than Advil.
And Advil works pretty darn well.
But it's an anti-inflammatory.
So many great things.
It's great for your brain.
So many of these problems people have in their brains and allergies and things is the inflammation.
It was Rob do like a year and a half ago.
He goes, dude, I take turmeric for my allergies.
It knocks it out.
Don't you know that?
I started taking it.
It was like really helping.
Like way better than like claring it and stuff.
Because it massively reduces inflammation.
There's a bunch of other stuff.
But it's the last day at 50% off.
Selling it anyways.
More doesn't come in for like a month.
So we want bodies.
M4store.com.
It's got to be the last day of the day.
There will be new special tomorrow.
I just don't have time to come up with them.
I'm busy in a one-legged man and then you know what contest.
We've got the ultimate bone broth.
That's going to end today.
50% off.
It's amazing.
Check it out.
M4store.com.
M4sLive.com.
We've got a big announcement tomorrow about X2.
I'll just make it now.
It's official.
No more X2.
What we have is what we have.
Yep.
X2.
When you use public Wi-Fi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online.
Embarrassing photos, your web history, even your passwords.
That's why I use private internet access to encrypt my internet connection for less than
10 cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes you'll be browsing
anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99 BERKEY.
The Real Red Pill Plus ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Kreglennone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Kreglennone base, the Real Red Pill, it could become one of our fellow InfoWater's
favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including RediXTrack and Ramate Leaf
Extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfowarsStore.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why InfowarsLife created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a
unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support
your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high-quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with Vitamin
Mineral Fusion today, available at InfowarsStore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfowarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
The Communist Chinese have taken control of Hollywood.
The Communist Chinese have taken control of the main universities.
This is all confirmed.
This is not a drill.
Big Tech and Silicon Valley is almost completely run by the Communist Chinese government.
They've officially become state-run.
Apple 100%.
Google is now making the transition and announcing a merger in total worldwide censorship.
They are now beta testing using me as the straw man, a demonized version of Alex Jones
to do that.
This is not like the other probes before that were meant to get you used to probes and censorship,
thinking you would adapt to censorship by just putting up with it.
Now this attack is thousands and thousands and thousands of times the magnitude of all
previous attacks.
This is a tight-traded dose, reverse psychological warfare operation using adapt and overcome
subversion paradigm manipulation.
In layman's terms, they are manipulating the fact that we adapt to being oppressed.
We adapt to being pressed with the low dosages of oppression.
Now when the megaton hits us of the total takeover, we try to adapt to the poison infusion
instead of not knowing it's a lethal dose if we accept the dose.
Total Internet of Things integration, global social score, complete command and control
system.
It is the virtual reality AI weapons system now attacking the United States with traders
inside the major security agencies blocking Trump's resistance of the program and attempting
to stop us from removing the tentacles of the chai-coms-slash-big-tech-making-combine emergency
situation.
I have been chosen for destruction because I brought you this information and have been
battering, ramming it out as much as I can.
They want to double use me as they always do in any complex system of mathematical deception
where every angle of my good is turned against us.
Take what I've said, be insincere, build me into an insincere person in the strawman.
I'm a person that cares about life and children and is against these wars and so they make
me a murder of children.
And then they build me into this lie to then set the distraction while they're actually
censoring all of you to make a debate about Alex Jones.
So even if I didn't sell out to them, they now use me as an archetype to serve them by
being the main distraction.
I have now been captured by the enemy in the information warfare fall from and is being
used against you.
Only your full understanding of this key will break you free from this paradigm.
I have given you the transmission, now break free!
I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over
the mind of man.
Thomas Jefferson, if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
We're going back to your phone calls right now.
We've got Sean, let's talk about censorship, Justin, Michael, Joel, Travis, Cole, CJ.
I don't see any ladies on here.
Sometimes it's like all women calls, sometimes it's all men's, sometimes it's a mix.
We've got a lot of callers here.
Let's talk to Joel in San Diego, California.
Joel, you're on the air.
Thanks for calling.
All right, Alex.
How are you doing, brother?
Good, thanks for calling.
Oh, thank you.
I want to say a couple things first before I get into it.
I'm calling through the app.
I love the app, man.
The new app is amazing.
I had the old one, which was a little buggy.
New one's awesome.
I'm glad I got it on iPhone before they took it off.
And by the way, they banned a whole bunch of apps that weren't even ours, that were
fan apps off of the Apple platform, a total purge.
Some just had my name in it.
It wasn't even me.
And again, millions got the Apple one, 800,000 or something, got the Google one that's still
available at infowars.com forward slash app.
But think about that.
Yes, if you have it, it's still there for now.
So I guess a few updates happen.
But how amazing is that?
That's true digital book burning.
Because that little icon we paid to have made and then paid them to put on their platform.
They're saying, this book isn't allowed in our library.
I mean, that is real fascism.
And people don't see it.
And they don't see it because it's digital.
They're not putting two and two together, really.
Another thing I want to say is just what you were talking about earlier with that journalist
that wrote that article, that really gets under my skin, man.
Because I've been a long time listener.
And the whole, you know, they take our kindness for weakness thing that you repeatedly say,
that's so true.
And just like the minute that they draw blood, they don't know what's going to happen to them.
We've been nice.
We've been really nice about this.
Let them talk all the crap they want.
They're going to have to draw first blood.
And if they think they can get away with dabbing you in the neck with a pen, it's just,
it's blowing my mind what's going on right now.
Well, William F.B. O'Reilly is a cowardly scumbag.
He's not going to stab me with a pen.
He's going to fantasize about it, hoping somebody does it.
Just like the New York Times, isn't going to go shoot Congressmen's Colleges, try to kill 17 others,
and the Freedom Caucus.
They just said, oh, here's where they play baseball.
No one's protecting them.
Oh, here's where Alex's office is, you know, in North Austin.
Come get them.
That's what they do.
You know, drawing blood, throwing coffee, doing their little comeback game.
Like you said, that's not drawing blood.
But if they get some idiot to do this, like you're saying, I just already see that they're,
you know, like you said, they've set you up so well that nobody will defend you when they do this.
I'm going to defend you, and I know enough people that will, but this is craziness.
Absolutely nuts right now.
I'm sorry to hear that the X2 is going off the shelf span.
I live in California, so it's like impossible for me to really buy the products as much as I'd like to,
but that's one that I really like.
Well, just so you know, the product ship anywhere in the world,
and it passes all the California standards.
And I've just been put over a barrel with getting the deep earth crystal sources for the iodine.
We may be able to come out with another iodine.
It's just good at crystals or even better.
It's just that that hasn't been totally secured yet.
And so this has been our best selling product.
And we ended up getting it because they went after our deep seaweed,
you know, high quality seaweed when it wasn't as strong and wasn't as pure,
but some of the best in the market.
But this is the pure 999999 stuff, 4.9 stars on power reviews, 6,000 plus reviews, 98% reviews.
It's an amazing product.
And the X2 we've got right now is the last run.
I had to break the contract for any future stuff just because of the prices going up and then the unavailability.
And I told, you know, folks that.
And so the X2 we have, we have a pretty good supply of it right now,
but when it's sold out, it's gone.
We may have a new formulate, but how that works is once you reformulate,
you know, you have to change the name.
And X2 could come back, but it's on an advertising tactic to say, oh my God, this is it.
We've had a lot of problems keeping it in.
We've had a lot of problems because once the oil companies know you want this because they get it in the drilling process
between 7 and 2000 feet.
Once they do that, and once that starts happening, then getting it from the oil and gas companies,
getting it supplied, then the price goes up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up.
Then we've been looking for other suppliers and we thought we had one, then it didn't.
We thought we had to have a DEA license because it's a precursor for all this other stuff.
Not DEA when we sell it, but I mean, the original item we get is in a pure crystal form and then it gasses
and it's put in by patented process into the palm oil.
And that's why it's so special, but we've got it in stock.
And even though this is the final run with 4.9 stars, it's 25% off.
So if you want to stock up on your X2, infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com,
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
But last time, losing a supplier made us discover X2.
And so that's how this stuff works.
And I have a suspicion, though, that if we play hardball and stuff, the price will go down.
Look, I just can't pay.
I mean, most supplements, literally, that sell for $30 have $2 a product in them.
Well, we got stuff for sell for 30 bucks.
It's got $15 a product in it.
But when it comes to things like DNA force, it's got like $40 a product in it.
Other people sell similar formulas like 300 bucks at doctor's offices.
It's marked up seven times.
The most we mark stuff up is like 150%.
And we need to mark up the toothpaste like that because if I sell it for $7, $8,
there's $3 a product in it.
Other people's toothpaste has like 50 cents a product, a bunch of sand and silicon.
That's not what we're doing.
So, again, everything we do is the best game-changing.
Infowarstore.com.
You wanted to get into the media column for attacks.
Anything else, Joel?
It's just very frustrating to me that they are able to get away with that.
The two realities thing is becoming more and more apparent.
They live in a fantasy land and they're able to, through their little echo chambers,
justify what they're doing and saying, but it's the scary situation.
I don't think enough people realize how scary this is right now.
Well, I do have a message for Jack Dorsey later because I've talked to two different people
that talked to folks that were involved in the meetings at Twitter and why I was actually removed.
They used the excuse of Oliver Darcy to remove me from bullying a public figure that is right in my free speech.
So I stood up to a bully.
It's my problem.
It turns out it was for another reason.
I'll cover that at the start of the next hour when I introduce Gerald Salente.
But I'm coming back with your calls straight ahead.
Newswarstore.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield.
Toxic metal and chemical defense support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the informal war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself.
You owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfowarsLife.com
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfowarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfowarsLife's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfowarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
InfowarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout
with the power of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
omega mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
You are the Infowar.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
But the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You know it was coming.
Miami Herald, anti-semitic fliers featuring Alex Jones, litter five California synagogues.
We can pull this article up.
I'll cover this later.
Go ahead and grab it.
Of course, the media is acting like I did it.
Almost all of these things where sloshes get stuck on synagogues or Jewish cemeteries get attacked or done by leftists.
Remember, right after Trump got elected, somebody was attacking synagogues in New Jersey and knocking tombstones over.
And Trump said, oh, I bet it stays.
I went, oh my gosh, you don't care about Jews being attacked when he's pro-Israel.
He is not pro-leftist garbage.
And then even during his first speech in Congress, had to bring it up.
So it's terrible.
Turned out it was a leftist Jewish guy.
Got caught doing it, pled guilty.
Oh, but that was a little footnote that Trump was right.
I don't know who's doing this, but I'm on everything.
I'm in everything.
So they're always saying, you're going to cause violence.
No, people that try to take free speech are going to cause violence, not from me.
So the Sacramento Bee, it's all over the place too.
Anti-Semitic Flowers featuring Alex Jones.
Liter 5, California Synagogues.
And then it just goes on to act like I'm involved in it.
Yeah, it's the same article I read.
The mainstream media all write the same article.
They coordinate, they get ready, and then they put it out.
Just like they coordinated with Apple when they banned me last week, our app.
Just like they coordinated the Twitter ban that was confirmed.
Hundreds and hundreds of publications all came out at 447, the exact article.
They just put their name on it.
So they can just get their big lie going, like we're going to lie.
So let's all lie together to make it look more believable.
I'm telling you, they're going to attack synagogues, churches, schools, and blame it on me.
It's coming.
So then they'll really come after me with violence.
That's the plan.
They're going to do the same thing that our wonderful president, but it's okay.
You got bad people in the country, bad globalists.
We got to be men again.
We got to stand up to them.
We got to go through some pain.
And I'm very honored to do it.
People say, wow, you're being attacked.
How are you handling it?
I'm like, I'm doing great.
I just hope I'm strong enough to really give them one hell of a political fight.
People are like, wow, because, I mean, this is what you're supposed to do.
I'm not rolling over to these crooks.
Okay, let's go to your phone calls.
Let's go to Cole in Texas.
Cole, you're on the air.
Go ahead.
Hello, Alex.
Hey, brother.
Hello, Alex.
How are you doing, sir?
I just want to start out by saying the Lime Mutant Fusion Anthroplex Survivor Shield
and Brain Forcer, like my favorite, get up and go combo.
So thank you for those.
Thank you, brother.
I wanted to talk about an article that I read in MIT Technology Review.
And it's written by Chinese professor Yaxiang Huang.
It says, can big data tame big brother?
And it's pretty interesting the psychological view that it does.
China is a repressed society with or without big data.
Technology has made the repression more precise, but that might be an improvement over indiscriminate
repression.
So they're trying to say that if your privacy goes away, and even though they're repressive,
being more...
That's saying it's scientific.
It's more professional now.
When we take your political list and it's organs for criticizing the government or being
Buddhist or Christian, which is the real issue of crime, it's okay because at least
we know you really did it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just like the communists would make you sign a confession because they couldn't
prove or they didn't really care about the proof.
That's right.
They'd pull your fingernails out until you do it.
And just like Twitter and Google never let you know when you're banned, when you're digitally
executed, that's how the Russians and others would do it, is they take you out and march
you around every day until the final day you get shot in the back of the head.
Yeah.
Great points, goal, anything else?
Yeah.
I started reading the Gulag Archipelago if people want to see the atrocities of communism
taking power.
It's not for the faint of heart.
And also this current technology, the MIT Technology Review, I mean, article after article is just
like that.
It could be a college course alone and just in a couple of articles that are published
there.
So anyway, God bless you, Alex.
I guess one more thing, there is an alternative to the Google operating system for Android
phones.
It's called Lineage OS.
It would be really cool if you could get Richard Stalman on again to talk about it.
Sure.
My issue is I should have access to the marketplace on the major platforms.
And then we went to number one on both Apple and Google.
And so now Apple's deleted it where you can't get it unless you already had it.
Again, that's outrageous.
And it's one thing if it had bugs and complaints and problems, it's got five stars, perfect
five stars.
No one else even has it.
We were number one.
And they go, oh my God, at current download rates, we would have actually to the numbers
last night, 20 million subscribers in a year at current rates.
They're not going to let us do that.
God bless you, brother.
I appreciate your call.
Okay.
Who's up next here?
Let's go ahead and talk to Michael in Rhode Island.
Michael, you're on the air.
Thanks for holding.
You got anybody?
Yes, sir.
How are you doing today?
I'm going to just get to a quick, yeah, actually work at Amazon and it is sure they treat people,
they kind of, they'd rather give us time to use the bathroom, like to deliver the packages.
Like we'll be in rural areas where obviously there's no stores and it's like, how do these
people expect us to go to the bathroom and we're human?
I mean, what the heck?
Crazy, man.
Well, it's about dominating you and totally squeezing whatever they can out of you.
The more liberal a company, I mean, Apple has the worst slave factories on earth.
It's a religion.
It's a big joke.
They're giggling.
They're laughing.
Oh, I'm Tim Cook.
I'm gay.
Everything's cool.
But then they, you know, China kills gays and throws them off buildings, you know, and
murders them.
But he doesn't have a problem with that.
He's a monster.
It's the same thing with Bezos.
I mean, these guys are jokes.
But yeah, I'm in a democratic state, Rhode Island, and you can see what Governor Ramondo,
she actually tweeted out that she was banning guns in school.
And like a day later, there was a shooting outside the school and this kid died.
I'm like, this lady's an idiot.
We're going to, we're definitely going to vote her out.
We don't, we're going to, we're going to have a red wave in Rhode Island for sure.
What do you make of Amazon and the new patent where you sit in a giant cage on top of a
huge robot and you're in a cage running robot arms and nuts, man.
I mean, uh, has that, that's in China, right?
Was that in America?
Oh, they're bringing it to America.
Oh, that's ridiculous.
You sit in a giant robot machine and, and I think it says the robots, what 18 feet tall
had to pull the article up.
You ride around like master blaster on top of a giant robot.
God bless you.
My friend, uh, Amazon's now delisting conservative books, playing games, manipulating them.
Amazons are playing with us on there.
People say, well, you hate Amazon.
Why are you there?
Because they put counterfeits on there.
If I don't then undercut us.
We have to be on Amazon to control our market.
So that our real products are there, not counterfeits, but we don't push, hey, buy the products
from Amazon and they're playing all sorts of games with us.
And of course, after they stage the false flag, let me take his website down, arrest
him.
And people go, well, he's Alex Jones, let him get arrested, or let him get shut down,
and then it'll be you take another call here.
Who is up next?
Uh, let's go ahead and talk to Travis in Florida.
Go ahead, Travis.
Hey Alex, how you doing?
You know, I'm really the country's in deep trouble, but at least we're fighting back.
I'm getting persecuted hard, but you know, it's good to be a number two under attack
after the president.
It's a good company, and so I, my bones feel good.
I feel close to my ancestors.
I feel like I'm delivering.
You're definitely, you're definitely right.
There was the Patriots.
I just want to bring up a couple of quick points and then you got a lot to get to.
You're absolutely right with the censorship.
I mean, you can go to Google and see for yourself.
You type in a news article you want to find.
Good luck trying to find Alex Jones article.
Good luck trying to find drug reports.
Good luck trying to find Breitbart.
Yeah, it's no telling how.
And we used to be until two years ago, number one, because whatever's most popular, they
broke their algorithm.
It's all censored now.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And then, and then last point I want to make is, um, as far as my friends go, I'm trying
to wake them up to all this because some of them, yeah, they're Republican.
They get it.
But, you know, you mentioned Alex Jones, like, oh, he's the one that's the conspiracy.
He's the crazy conspiracy theory.
And that just goes to tell you that the straw man demonization that they put out for you
just gets to everyone's head and they believe everything they hear from these mainstream
media.
And that's why if somebody actually hears, they know it's bull, but they, they, they
inoculate them with poison.
So they go, oh, he's the one that says there's slaves on Mars.
Never said it.
He's the one attacking Sandy Hook kids.
Never said it.
He's the one doxter houses, never said it.
And it's the media lying, lying, lying, doing the abusive stuff in my name.
And then exactly, then they're like, just stick a pencil in his neck and then they don't
get there already being censored to.
But they won't get banned for saying that.
No, no, no, no, no, no, they're fine.
That's not violent.
Um, and then last thing, Alex, I guess it is true.
Truth is free to the empire of lies.
Um, I want to thank you personally.
I have Hashi modus thyroiditis, um, and he was like a hypothyroidism condition.
Um, I currently, I mean, the product.
If I can just name off real quick, BrainForce, X2, Selenium, the MicroZX, Vitamin, Mineral
Fusion, Prosthecard, the Coffee, the Chaga Mushroom Blend, Supermal Vitality, Alpha Male.
Let me tell you, it's given me my life back.
I was just taking the thyroid medicine alone, it's just not enough.
Just having these products has made my life just back to normal.
I'm working harder, I'm smarter, I feel like I'm just, it's unbelievable.
Your products are amazing.
They are the highest quality you're going to get out there and that's what people love
them.
So thank you for the support.
God bless you.
God bless you.
Take care, Travis.
And yeah, and X2 and the iodine stuff is very serious.
So consult your physicians always in case you have any issues with what this can do because
it's very powerful.
But this is the real deal.
All right.
Fourth hour, your call.
It's your old Selente.
Straight ahead.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, it's going to become one of our fellow
InfoWars favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green DX track, your Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstores.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with
one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, poor stage, compact filtration
system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants
from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous
toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Welcome back, World Wide Broadcast, infowars.com.
We're talking to callers right now, and I see one that sounds like it kind of disagrees.
Let me put them ahead of the line here.
I'm going to try to jam some of your calls in.
He says, Alex Jones is 99% truth, 1% dangerous.
Well, gosh, I'd like to be 99% truth.
Maybe like 95% truth.
I get stuff wrong.
But in the general main, I think I'm accurate.
But elaborate on that, what's the truth and what's the danger there, Chris?
Alex, first I want to say I love you because I'm sympathical and your music is exactly
... Everything you do resonates with me, but here's what I want to say.
If you were a perfect spy, you would be 99% what I love and then 1% deadly.
And what I'm very afraid of is that you're the 1%, because what's the most important
thing coming up is the election.
And what's the most important thing to do with the election is it's all controlled by
computers, which they've told us about, and you're not advocating paper ballots.
Go ahead.
I have probably done 400, 500 shows over the years calling for election integrity, paper
ballots, going back to that.
There's this phenomenon where if you don't hear somebody talking about what you want
when you tune in, they're not talking about it.
I mean, if I'm an operative, I don't know it.
I see all this crazy stuff, this cottage industry, this guy's an operative, that guy's an operative.
The fruit of my tree is getting the country back and freedom and globalism and trouble
and a pro-human future.
I saw some guy on the other day on the Internet going, Alex Jones is going to go to prison
for talking bad about Q or something, and I only watched a few minutes of it, it was
so sickening, and he goes, he's the poison fruit of the tree.
And the guy's like, I've been listening to him for 15 years, he woke me up and brought
me to Trump, but now he's been an agent all along, horsemaner.
How is it I woke you up and got you awake, and then now I'm this bad guy because some
anonymous person said so.
I mean, Mueller's bad.
Trump hates him.
I've talked to Trump.
It's Poppycock, what you hear from that Q person, whoever this Q group is said some
good things up front, and I wanted to believe it, and I want to believe that all this stuff's
great.
But no, Sessions is a coward, Mueller's horrible, they're not good guys, and the whole Cuban
is so whacked out.
Now it's, Jones will sue me to get, oh yeah, he's a problem, not Hillary Clinton, so you're
like, I hear not talking about paper ballots, and I think it's a cheap shot, Chris.
I don't mind people disagreeing with me, but I have done so many, the Collier Brothers
before they died, that Harris probably a hundred times, I mean, I have beat this, David Knight
beats this into the ground, I don't know how many, yes, we have major election fraud, yes,
we have people voting in the name of dead people, yes, we've got, we have articles all
over info wars, about 12-year-old girl, 11-year-old girl hacks in to one of the voting machines
in what, 30 seconds last week?
So you must have missed that show.
No, I've followed all this stuff.
Okay, so, if I was the ultimate spy, well, I'll say this, if I am a spy, I don't know
it.
I mean, hell, the world's so weird, I might be a robot or something, I mean, see, I want
to tell you before I sign off that I love Joyce Riley, and I love you just as much as
you, and I hope you're not a spy.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well, there you go.
I think it's kind of a weird little thing I see, and I hear out there, instead of doing
anything or getting involved, there's this thing about telling the most prominent, hard-working
people how they're in the arena and how they could have done a better job, and then they
just repeat the same thing, like, all the real researchers know, Jones works for the
Mossad.
Well, because I'm not anti-Israeli, also, I don't like a lot of stuff Israel does.
It's crazy.
And like, oh, he's telling you China's the problem, because he works for Israel.
Israel sold us out to China, too.
It's just mental illness, but it's the way little people who don't want to be big people
put down big men and then feel good, oh, that's Jones, he's fraud, and me, I'm good.
Everything's fine, and Mueller's good, too.
You said so.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me, like, first demonize Info Wars, lie about us, build a straw man,
then sue us to add credibility to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook
with nebulous terms like bullying children and Islamophobia.
And then, voila, two weeks later, ban Info Wars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top 10 news feeds.
Go to infowars.com, forward slash show, subscribe to the free podcast, just click on the link,
whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com, forward slash newsletter, and give us your
email so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our
own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com, forward slash show, how they can download
the free Android and iPhone apps, how they can then reach out to others with the information
and point out, this is the verboten info, this is what they don't want you to see.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Watch me, watch me, watch me.
All right, Gerald Salente is coming up here about five minutes, the top trends researcher,
trendsresearch.com, can't wait to hear what he has to say.
And I've been meaning to get a hold of him, he's been trying to get a hold of me, he had
some advice out of counter, all these disinformation attacks, and so I want to get his idea on this
obviously platforming plan to take me down first, then take everybody else down, which
is now begun, and what he thinks President Trump should do.
Paul Watson said the article will be out in the next few hours, but I've checked infowars.com,
you guys check again, he's going to do one about his high level sources, say the executive
order is coming this week from Trump, I was told that two weeks ago, but he's so sabotaged
and they won't execute what he says, that that's why it's taken longer.
I mean, we're in a crisis, folks, this is so crazy, I don't have words to describe this.
Google won't help the military in the US, but it's helping China with AI.
They are all in concert banning me.
They're now taking our app that had over two million downloads in five weeks down.
Why?
Because it was going to have, at that growth rate, over 20 million downloads in the next
year, even if the rate slowed.
They can't have us being number one, and I've done the analysis, they're not going to stop
there.
They've now got articles everywhere saying, kill me if I'm seen in public.
Newsday, you name it.
Just like they say, kill the president everywhere.
Well, that's what he thinks we should do in a moment.
But I wanted to get to Lee and Mash, let's talk about Syria and Trump.
One area I'm mad at Trump about is Syria, but I understand that Iran is breaking their deal,
that they would leave after ISIS and al-Qaeda was beaten.
It is a big civilian population and you don't want to see them go into a lib that's got
over a million people in it.
The U.S. is already bombing, and it's not even in our news.
Then you have the Pentagon saying, oh, we think he's using chlorine gas.
Why would Assad cross that red line and do that?
So I got mad at Trump last time because it was admittedly a chemical attack in April of
this year that didn't even happen.
Later, that was confirmed.
So launching attacks based on fake attacks, if Trump did an Oval Office address and said,
we made a deal five years ago that they'd pull out, the Pentagon blocked Obama doing
all this, now ISIS and Iran are supposed to get out.
We're not going to let them hurt these civilians.
We're going to bomb the Iranians.
I wouldn't agree with it, but I wouldn't flip out.
Because Trump knows what's going on, and the generals are trying to drag him into a
wider war.
Well, good girls, let me take on that as well.
But Lee and Mass, go ahead and make your point.
Hey, Alex.
Thanks for taking my calls.
First off, your products are awesome.
I love you, and hang strong.
You know, when your enemies are coming at you full gear like they are, you're doing something
right.
Thank you.
You really are.
Yeah, with Syria, you know, I think what's going on is, you know, you've got Congress
doing all their shuffling, and our media is not getting out to the people that, you know,
we've got 200 soldiers in Idlib with the UK, and Russia offered to get them out of there,
and they refused it because of the bread.
And in August 25th, you know, there was a Russia had said that there's going to be a
false chemical attack.
So I think we're looking at a major false flag operation, and we already have a base
outside there.
And by the way, Russia, Russia has been warning of this for months.
They've caught the rebels staging two chemical attacks, the staging one that didn't happen
in mid-April of this year, so you're absolutely right.
And the Russians have been bending over backwards, saying they'll completely pull out, and they've
already pulled most forces out, so what do you think's behind this?
The pipeline.
I really think that, you know, they wanted to bring it up through Syria, but when Russia
got involved, you know, they stopped it, and we've been going at them for years to try
to get that through.
And on Israel Live today, they were saying that they may even try to pipe it over through
Israel so that we still have control of it, but we've got ISIS and Al-Qaeda, and we're
right there with them in Idlib.
No, that's right, and the argument is, if that gets pushed out, that will be the last
Saudi Arabian contingent, and then Saudi Arabia will get mad if Iran is allowed to take control.
So Iran is supposed to pull back as well, and of course they're not, they're massing
more troops, so I see the predicament trumps in, but there were white phosphorus attacks,
Reuters reported it too on Sunday.
No coverage of that, but I was watching Fox this morning, they had to admit that the rebels
had been caught staging stuff before.
So we've come that far, we're on Fox News, they're talking about false flags with generals
on Fox News while I was sitting there on the elliptical this morning, so God bless
you.
Thank you, Lee.
Sorry to all the other callers, I got to as many as I could, I apologize to everybody
else, we can write down your name and info, tomorrow we take calls, if you call in, tell
us you were on hold yesterday, you'll go to the front of the line, we'll be taking a
lot more calls here on the show.
They don't want us communicating with each other, and then calls are a precious part
of that.
Gerald Salente, I want to get into Iran and Iraq and Syria with you briefly, then I want
to get your expert taken and let you take over, I don't want to steal your thunder, that's
why you're here.
On what you think I should do, because they're everywhere saying that I'm going to cause
violence with no proof, clearly they're saying Trump's going to cause violence with no proof
against the media.
I think they're preparing a false flag here ahead of the midterms with 57 days left.
It's a definite censorship against anyone against the establishment.
It's going on all over the world except here, you have anti-establishment movements going
on in Italy, you just saw what happened in Sweden, in Germany, in Spain.
So what they're doing is they're silencing people like you, and we're doing a whole story
actually in the Trends Journal, that'll be out later this week, it's called media censorship
trend to escalate.
Long before Info Wars, Alex Jones was banned by Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Spotify, etc.
And Apple removed his app because he had violated the company's rules against objectionable content.
America as with many nations silenced voices that challenge establishment propaganda, favoring
media that plugs special business interests and their political agendas.
That's what's going on.
It goes back to Trump's election.
The day he's elected, the headline news in USA Today, New President dent his office with
something like 74 lawsuits, not that we had a new president.
It's been an anti-anybody going against the establishment is being taken out by the establishment.
And you're the prime example because you're the leader of the anti-establishment movement
as far as people that view your shows, follow you on your websites.
So you are the voice of the anti against the establishment and they want no part of it.
It's exponentially accelerating now with calls for me to be killed in mainstream media.
They want me to be stabbed in the neck with pencils murdered.
They want Trump murdered.
They're sticking stickers on his back saying, Mr. Dumash, they're putting signs up over
his door to scythe him saying, crazy town.
I mean, this is a civil war in this country by people that are for multinational global
centrist and people that are patriots.
I got to say, Trump's not perfect, but you know a man by his enemies.
He is really something else.
I mean, it's just a miracle he got in and they are just so angry.
Yeah.
Well, again, it's not a miracle that he got in.
And again, as you well know, we forecast it, the people are disgusted with the establishment.
And that's what's really happened.
Why did Hillary Clinton lose?
Because people couldn't stand her and the Clintons and the establishment.
And now you got Obama going out there campaigning and people are forgetting how the other when
he was when he was in office, how both houses and governorships went Republican because
people couldn't stand him.
So what I'm saying, Alex, and I'm saying to you is stay on to the populist message.
The people are against the establishment.
They've screwed them in every way possible.
Look at the earnings.
Look how people have to struggle to make a living.
Look at the endless wars.
Look at the people like, you know, that that that never have a job in their lives.
And now our congressmen and senators for the for eternity, let me ask you this question.
What do you think is going to happen if the red wave is strong and the Democrats lose
again?
Are they going to get even crazier?
Are they going to finally stop and let us have prosperity because they're just in crazed
mode?
No, they're going to go crazier.
That's why they've gone crazy with this anti-Russian sentiment, blaming the Russians for Hillary
Clinton losing the election without one fact.
So what I'm saying to you is, you know, just keep staying true to yourself and keep selling
the populist message.
It's not about Trump.
It's not about anyone.
It's about the people against the dictatorship, the fascist state of America that's been
taken over by the corporations and you don't need any more proof than too big to fail.
That's right.
We'll be back with Gerald Salante straight ahead.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public.
You can easily find sunny bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature, expand your horizons with
the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at
slingbow.com.
Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com.
Recall 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lailania states, but a lot of us on the big island
rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site
now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals.
Please consider a contribution, 25, 50, 100, 250 or even 500 dollars would be a godsend
to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of
censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
Hey, how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go?
Well, now you could do just that with the new official info wars end and here's the
best part.
It is absolutely free at the Apple store and Google Play.
You can join the info war today, check it out right now at info wars dot com forward slash
app.
It's the info wars official app taken on the globalist at point blank range and with your
help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Merkel confronts a defining moment as the global order realigns.
Yeah, world government open borders.
It's all failing.
Seven wounded, including two British tourists in Paris night attack, but the government
says, oh, no Islamic connection, even though he was from Afghanistan, screaming a la autbar.
2500 German stage impromptu protest that remain killed following fight with migrants who attacked
him.
We are the people.
So Gerald Salante was getting into populism being the answer.
I totally agree.
It means nationalism, self determination, your own country.
And that's what globalism is against and these big corporations show.
We're going to talk about that and Gerald's going to take over right now.
Please don't forget.
I set the cell within this weekend.
It will end today because I'm going to have new specials.
I just get so busy that I don't get new ones.
Look, our tumeric product bodies is amazing.
I wanted to have enough for another month at full price.
We sell it super discounted until it's super low and then we sell it at full price up to
be able to fund ourselves until the next shipment comes in in October.
October.
Well, now I've kept it going so long, it'll probably just be sold out most of the next
month.
So if you wanted 50% off amazing tumeric product, 95% or cumanoid, 50% off the great bone broth
formula, also a tumeric chaga mushroom, be pollen so much more to mix it with your way
and all of it.
It's incredible.
Look at the benefits of that.
That's 50% off.
X2.
I've told you I've been put over a barrel, deeper supply of the crystals.
Very hard to get, been having issues with it, been having to pay more to get it.
We have broken our contract with the proprietary product, gotten out of the contract because
I'm not going to sit there and do that and we're trying to develop a new one, another
deeper source, but this is the end of X2, at least for now.
Suppose we've had problems.
It's excellent.
It's amazing.
InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLife.com, or triple A253313 on your purchase makes it all possible.
Get a t-shirt.
Get a Moan Lombay t-shirt.
Get a Forbidden Information InfoWars.com shirt with my ugly mug on it.
There's so much there.
Sign up for auto-ship on things like coffee and things you want to reorder, cancel any
time, one click.
5% Patriot points on top of that, 10% off on every order that's set for auto-ship, free
shipping on orders of $50 or more.
There's just a lot of specials at InfoWarsStore.com, mean like a Wolverine, reelect, I love, I'm
the resistant shirt.
The great George Washington shirt, this guy George Washington is a young man with a musket
and a hatchet in his hand, the Paul Watson, conservatism is the new counterculture.
It's all there, InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLife.com, or triple A2533139, and going back to Gerald
Salente at TrendsResearch.com, and at Twitter still for now, Gerald Salente, 57 days out
my friend, the craziness, I'm going to punch you out here and eat lunch while I watch and
listen to you, or I'll never shut up, but just your advice on populism being the answer,
I agree, I'm putting out a populist message, the globalists fear that worldwide, they admit
they're in trouble with elections everywhere, they're losing, so they're stabbing the Donald
Trump of Brazil.
They're shooting the populist in the Netherlands.
They are getting violent, they're acid attacking, so the left's getting more and more violent,
but populism, you're right, we promote that, we promote real free societies, local government,
we will win, Gerald Salente.
Yes, you will, because that's what the people want, and again, you're a threat to them.
Look at your listenership compared to like, you know, Anderson Cooper, you know, or any
of, most of them, and the reality is, it's the multinationals against we the people,
and when you look at the tech giants that are against you, a handful of them, that monopolize
the airwaves on the digital world, when you look at five corporations controlling 90%
of the media, they don't want other voices taking away their business.
That's the bottom line, so they're going after you for every little thing that you say that
doesn't fit their agenda, and particularly the war agenda.
For example, as I mentioned, when Apple took down the Alex Jones app for objectionable
content.
How about objectionable content, when you had a content little container full of crap
that Colin Powell sold we the people based on lies that took the United States to war
against Iraq based on lies, and all the proof was there before and after that he never had
weapons of mass destruction and ties to Al Qaeda.
So everybody will take down Alex Jones, but no one will call out little Colin Powell and
you know why it's a Colin, because crap goes down the Colin and out his mouth.
How about Dick Cheney?
How about George W. Bush?
How about Rumsfeld?
How about all these people that overtly with all of the evidence, hard evidence, substantiated
facts that Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction, did not have ties to
Al Qaeda, they lied us into war, how come no one's calling them out?
Oh, but we're going to go after Alex Jones because he has quote objectionable content.
We can let go of all of the people, the Goldman Sachs gang, the Merrill Lynch mob, all the
banksters that rob you and we, the people of our money, have been convicted of frauds.
And not one head goes to jail, instead the Nobel Peace of Crap Prize winner, the arrogant
Obama, they're too big to fail and I'm going to make them bigger.
But we're going to go after Alex Jones because he points out what these people are doing.
Alex Jones points out what a fraud the Federal Reserve system is, the Federal Reserve.
As we all know that listens to info wars, it was Federalist Federal Express and he has
guests on like myself and Ron Paul that point that out and others like Dr. Paul Craig Roberts.
That's why the media is silencing Alex Jones.
Does Alex Jones use language and do things that they don't approve of?
You have to be proper.
Yes, you have to be proper like that Tony Blair who speaks with that wonderful in English
accent, a low life piece of garbage, lying murderer, but he's proper.
So we'll let him get away with it because we all act proper as we wage wars that slaughter
millions of innocent people based on lies.
But we'll go after Alex Jones because he has, quote, objectionable content and we don't
like him.
That's what's going on and that's why I recommend to everyone listening to everything you can
to support Alex Jones, support info wars and others that speak the truth and that are against
the establishment, the multinational that are robbing us of our freedom, of our dignity,
of our right to think for ourselves and also freedom of speech.
There should be outrage all over the country for what's going on and singling out Alex
Jones while they let the official murderers get away with murder.
We'll be back in a bit.
I tried other brands but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best, get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work and
have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public.
You can easily find sunny bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads.
InfoWarsLife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release.
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent
laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source, prebiotic fiber.
And it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds
that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well
as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality
products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we could come up with.
Bodies sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
We knew it was coming.
The whole thing was for me leg.
First demonize info wars, lie about us, build a straw man, then sue us to add credibility
to that, then have a few fake strikes on YouTube and Facebook with nebulous terms like bullying
children and Islamophobia.
And then voila, two weeks later ban info wars completely off of dozens of major platforms
where we were all in the top five or top ten news feeds.
Go to infowars.com for a last show.
Subscribe to the free podcast.
Just click on the link or whatever you're subscribing to your podcast in, it'll pop
up there.
It's also critical to go to infowars.com for a slash newsletter and give us your email
so that we can stay in contact with you and send you videos and articles on our own platform.
But whatever you do, tell folks about infowars.com for a slash show, how they can download the
free Android and iPhone apps and how they can then reach out to others with the information
going out, this is the verboten info, this is what they don't want you to see.
Hi, this is Gerald, glad to be here, Gerald Salenti with the Trends Research Institute,
publisher of the Trends Journal, and always an honor to be on info wars, especially as
the major media attack it, because all they are are a bunch of prostitutes.
They get paid to put out for their corporate whormasters and nobody could pay Alex Jones
enough to say what they want him to say or myself.
And that's why I'm urging you all to continue to do everything you can to support info wars
and one of the great products that they have that's 40% off is knock out the powerful sleep
aid.
That's right, 40% off only at infowarslife.com, the research is clear, millions around the
world struggle to achieve proper sleep each night and the negative health effects are
staggering.
Info wars life has developed a natural sleep support formula that incorporates the most
powerful ingredients for the most affordable price, knockout goes above and beyond many
natural sleep formulas by bringing together powerful natural sleep remedies like melatonin,
malaria and root extract, and that's just the name of few.
So do what you can to support info wars, it's needed now more than ever.
Flip is a major trend, it's going to be one of our top trends for 2019.
It's not only Alex Jones they're going after, it's from, you could go to the world's socialist
website, they're after them as well and other anti-war sites.
Google is attacking them and info wars is just one of the many of the anti-establishment,
or I should say one of the few, of the anti-establishment that's being attacked.
The higher the number is, the louder the voice is, the bigger the name, the greater the attack.
So as I mentioned to Alex, this is part of the populist movement, and by the way it's
only the banksters that call it populism, it's people who want to protect their heritage
and their identity, they don't want to get involved in foreign entanglements, and they
don't want to be a part of a multinational banking system that robs them of their money,
their dignity, and now their freedom of speech.
There should be outrage all over the airwaves about the silencing of Alex Jones.
This is in direct violation of our First Amendment, freedom of speech, but we've lost that.
And when you look at the words that were spoken at the Senate Intelligence Committee meeting
recently, and I use that word lightly because there is no intelligence in the American Senate
at all by none other than Facebook Chief Operating Officer Cheryl Sandberg and Twitter's CEO
Jack Dorsey, you read their comments and these tech giants, this is some of what they said,
will aggressively and relentlessly smoke out, quote, bad actors and block them.
And they'll block you, of course, from sharing, quote, undesired content.
Who anointed these geeks?
I should say Lord geeks because now their imagines, because they could do what they want.
Who anointed them to tell us what good and bad is, what truth and lies are, when that's
what they sell most of the time, on the lies end, not the truth.
Sandberg said, we will find content that violates our policies.
We will take it down.
This is an arms race, and that means we need to be ever more village, vigilant, vigilant,
greenberg, sandberg, iceberg, what's the difference?
This is disgusting.
What policy?
Who makes these decisions?
What about freedom of speech?
What about the First Amendment?
And again, Senate intelligence, not a shred of it among them.
None of them, none of them, debated the facts that they are going to tell us what's good
for us, what we should know, and what we should believe.
And as part of official investigations, government officials sometimes request data about people
who use Facebook, Sanders went on to say, we have an easily accessible online portal
and processes in place to handle these government requests.
So more censorship and more control of content by Big Brother.
This is America?
What a joke.
Oh, and by the way, folks, because Obama's out there now, folks in us again, yay, he
can't get over folks in us all the time.
This is the guy, Obama, that increased the spy agency's ability and gave them more power
to spy on us.
And now Big Tech is working hand in glove with the spy agencies right here in black
and white to watch everything you say, follow everything you do.
And if they don't like it, they're going after you.
And these threats against Alex Jones and Donald Trump are disgusting.
And if we had any kind of media at all in this world, in this country, I should say,
that at any sensitivity or sensibility, they would be championing against it, but only
silence.
As a matter of fact, they're promoting it, they're promoting hatred and division.
So again, do what you can to support info wars, put your money and your mind where your
heart is.
Because without info wars, without the trends journal, without Ron Paul, without just a
few of us, there'll be none of us.
It is becoming the fascist state of America, again, too big to fail.
This isn't the death of capitalism.
Capitalism was killed with that and capitalism.
No one's too big to fail, your rise and fall on your own merits, but we the little people
can fail.
And that's what's going on now, the bigs are taking control of everything.
They own us if we let them.
This is a time for an evolution as well as a revolution.
And that means to rise above the level of what they're doing.
Speak out, stand up and support those who you believe.
And the truth, demand open minds and many different directions.
You get that with info wars, you get that with our magazine, the trends journal, you
get that with Ron Paul and others, but they're going to try to take it away from us.
So support what you can, buy what you can.
The products, I buy them from info wars because I believe in them and they made me feel really,
really good.
And there's a lot going on besides this and we're going to come back in just a little
bit to talk about it, particularly watch what's going on with the economy.
We'll be back.
Feeling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from info wars store.com you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at info wars store.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple A two five three three one three
nine.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are
and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
info wars life dot com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info
war so it's a total absolute sure win no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available info wars life dot com for yourself ladies and
gentlemen it's non-gmo it's for your brain it's for sports it's for activities and it's
made in the USA get your alpha power today at info wars life dot com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
The scientists at info wars life have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
These contains one of the most potent forms of tumeric available.
Tumeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption
to help boost and support your flexibility mobility joint function immune system and
so much more.
Regular tumeric root from the store only contains one to five percent of active ingredients
but our tumeric root extract contains over 95 percent of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines tumeric with organic herbs such as spearmint sage lemon balm and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at info wars life dot com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You're listening to the alex jones show
Defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones yes yes yes
Defending the republic and the enemies of censorship right now that there is not outrage
spreading across america taking alex jones off the air and so many different platforms
is a disgrace on the digital the digital world what has he done so again it's up to
you to keep the voices alive and you can do that by buying great products that info wars
has available among them super silver wound dressing gel from info wars life burns scrapes
cuts and wounds are a natural part of life that's why it's so important to be ready to
protect them from infection with super silver wound dressing gel from info wars life you
can reduce the threat of infection and irritation with a portable affordable and easy to use
solution based on the powerful silver soul technology that revolutionized the colloidal
nano silver market super silver wound dressing gel has been evaluated and f e a cleared in
standard tests to reduce the levels of common microorganisms fungi pathogens on the surface
of wounds so that's just one of the many great products that are available at info wars and
again do what you can to keep the voice of info wars growing and gaining rather than
the tech giants and the prostitutes doing what they can to restrain it and I talk about
the prostitutes and propaganda you don't need anything better than this front page story
in today's new york times they call themselves the paper of record I call them the toilet
paper of record because it's only good for one thing when you see a story like this and
many others that they write a turncoat spy went free putin look at that picture never
forgave him they're talking about that guy scurple was screeple that was poisoned with
that deadly poison the deadliest one on earth I tells you and the guy's still alive and
so is his daughter we won't talk about that this is propaganda that they're selling and
it goes back to what Alex was saying about the coup against trump for wanting peace with
putin peace while you have obama telling us folks that we got to watch them russian while
the democrats those peace-loving democrats yep 41 senators democratic senators voted
for the defense bill seven voted against it 139 democrats those peace-loving democrats
voted for the defense bill 49 voted against it war that's what the democrats are selling
on some issues I agree with trump particularly on the trade issues you look at what just
happened with the trade data that came out last week china's trade surplus with us grows
to new records in august 31.05 billion who would do business under those terms if this
was the arrogant obama who of course lied when he was running for office in 2007 in
the election 2008 that he was going to revisit nafta never did if obama wanted to renegotiate
these lousy trade deals brought to you by bill clinton primarily boy with the media
be applauding him but trump is doing it that's not good and again what i disagree with trump
is in the war levels but he wants to get out of afghanistan and the word from sources
i was one of the speakers at ron paul's peace and prosperity conference in washington dc
it should say that the washington the marriott hotel at dullis airport in august the number
of the speakers there was saying that trump wants peace in afghanistan but the military
industrial complex doesn't want him to have it and again the novell piece of crap prize
winner obama folks got to go into libya here's stories that don't make the toilet paper of
record libya armed groups vie for control in deadly triply clashes oh yes it's a civil
war over there the richest nation in africa now destroyed thanks to obama a sod has to
go obama says yep and so did six hundred thousand innocent civilians as they launched
the war against syria today libya national oil corporations triply offices attack at
least four killed including two national oil company employees that's why they don't
want alex jones on the air they want to keep selling war keep selling hate like the toilet
paper record with a story like this what they barely print stories like this kremlin denies
russian involvement next buys poison of course they're going to deny it they would deny you
if they did it of course this guy was a nobody from nowhere the screeper and they're trying
to make an issue that he was a somebody so i want to move on in the last few minutes
to talk about where the economy is going we were writing a lot about it we have to watch
out for what's going on in the emerging markets as the dollar gets stronger many other currencies
get weaker so the dollar was weak they borrowed a lot of money in dollars and now is the federal
reserve is raising interest rates their currencies are going down they're weakening hey they
got all that debt to pay up now they got to pay it back with more of their dough argentina
this guy mccree all of the prostitutes and the new york slime excuse me times was number
one on that championing this guy smart businessman going to bring in smart business people we're
going to turn argentina around and boy he did hey what do we got over here for interest
rates was a fed overnight rate one point seven five to two well how about sixty five percent
that's what their interest rate is their currency is declining down almost fifty percent this
year over fifty percent the turkish economy up a little bit get currency way down over
forty percent against the dollar this year india the rupee all time low indonesian rupee
two decades low one country after another russia the brazilian real hey south africa
is in a recession now and they're ran this way down i'm mentioning all this because
it could be a contagion effect and it may well happen because this economy in the united
states was boosted by bailing out the bakes negative and zero interest rate policy worldwide
stock buybacks mergers and acquisitions through quantitative easing so if the fed raises rates
too much if they raise them two more times this year start watching the economy go down
and all of these countries that are rich in dollar debt and poor in their own currencies
are going to go down big time and china will fall with the biggest boom and bust so we
don't give it financial advice but we believe gold is near the bottom and again so is the
american media because they're at the bottom or else they wouldn't be doing what they're
doing to alex jones thank you for having me on we'll see you real soon and support info
wars we're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you a powerhouse
bone broth formula to help push you to your limits this incredible formula will help you
get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth one of the
most popular health plans on the planet built with more than seven different superfoods and
crucial compounds ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles digestion
tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals this
incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root
chaga mushroom goji berry powder bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body
it's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you get a bottle of the
all-new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com
as the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs
with changes in diet unnatural ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary
nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals need a daily that's why info wars life created the
powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of advanced multi vitamin
formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give
your body the tools it needs to support your body using a proprietary process we've managed to make
this powerhouse formula into a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality
ingredients perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is
loaded with 34 different essential vitamins minerals amino acids and more start supporting
your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion
today available at infowarstore.com
