Trashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the Info War.
Well, Christine Blazied Ford is the most incredible witness I've ever seen.
She looks like a homeless crazy person and acts like one.
I predicted that there would be three more women after her and that they would release
the final woman the morning of the hearing.
And sure enough, that's happened exactly like we predicted.
She also said in her testimony that she started thinking about talking to the press when the
media came to her house and that she was looking at her dog.
I mean, folks, this is so bizarre that I am staggered at this point.
We've got the live coverage here, but the way they're worshiping her and kid-gloving
her.
And then we've got the photos and videos of her being a wild woman and all.
But then instead, you know, she sat first at her hair all in front in the big glasses.
But more and more she's coming out of the, coming out of the shell and being more of
herself.
She was cross-examined and just stories were tied in complete knots.
And then you can see the coaching when, well, are you sure it's Kavanaugh?
100% it's him.
You see, this is for all the greater good to stop the evil right wing, you see.
I want an Amy Coney Barrett, beautiful woman, great judge, a constitutionalist, a patriot.
But don't think Trump's going to try her next if Kavanaugh fails.
I think we're on a razor's edge right now.
They're going to be women saying that she gang raped them with fire hoses, folks.
So the Democrats aren't going to stop.
That's why they're death-threading everybody, you know, at the restaurant where Cruz ate
now.
I mean, I deal with these people.
They are mad dog.
They'll do anything because their religion is dominating the American people.
David Knight's going to ride shotgun with me for much of the broadcast today.
We rarely see David get hot.
He has been honored to pistol today on air, doing a great job.
We're going to go to the highlights, the lowlights of this.
I'll be honest with you.
I want to spare you this lady.
She is nauseating.
And I'm not going to lie.
David, what do you make of this bizarreness?
Well, you know, Alex, she deserves to be heard, but she has to earn the right to be
believed.
And that means that the details that she has, has to line up with somebody else.
They've repeatedly said, and you just heard Sheldon Whitehouse, and this is a guy who's
put forth numerous anonymous allegations in the last 24 hours.
One of them, the guy immediately said, well, I'm taking that back.
As soon as people discovered his identity, he pulled back.
But Sheldon Whitehouse was out there saying, this is totally unprecedented.
We should have had the FBI in here.
And of course, I played it yesterday.
We have Joe Biden saying, 1991, the Clarence Thomas and Ed Hill thing, says, shut up about
the FBI.
The FBI is irrelevant to this.
All they're going to do is interview him, interview her, said, she said, she said this,
and he said that.
And he goes, they're not going to draw any conclusions.
It doesn't really matter.
But we also had earlier, we had Dick Durbin accusing the Republicans of obstruction to
which Senator Grassley was very angry, and he said, I'll remind you that it was 45 days
or more that Dianne Feinstein said on this letter from Dr. Ford and didn't do anything
about it.
So we could have done an extensive investigation of all this, but nothing happened.
Feinstein really chews in to Grassley.
We're going to come back in 60 seconds and we're going to get into these clips and we're
going to play Joe Biden and all the rest of it.
I've just got to say, last night this morning, there's a fourth accuser.
And then, yes, they called the switchboard and they wouldn't say their name or who they
were, but they said her daughter was raped.
I mean, now, oh, here, random phone call, oh, Kavanaugh rapes you.
Okay, that's it.
Then execute him.
I mean, this is becoming insane.
And then these are not only anonymous.
These are hearsay.
There was a guy saying, well, I heard that somebody else said this and he did all that
and not the same thing with his mother.
You know, it's anonymous as well as hearsay.
Well, this is something the so-called media does is they do this to me now.
They go, a man named Doyle says Jones was once in a movie theater and said, I don't believe
any of it and I hate America.
Hey, total lie, but they just, a guy named Doyle says, oh, wait, there's a phone call
on the switchboard for you, Senator.
Oh, Kavanaugh rapes your daughter.
Oh, but you won't come forward, Joseor.
Thank you.
We'll put this in every newspaper right away.
I just got a phone call randomly and I've got, since they doxed my number, I've got
people calling my phone saying that.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
The war is being openly targeted by the Democratic party left to CIA operatives, the corrupt
justice department and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground and I knew we had
no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this
is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target and if
you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, m4s.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales, m4store.com right now and we're still able to operate the shopping
cart, get stuff shipped out to you, despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and the Globalist may win.
This is Info Wars, darkness hour, we're your support, I'm counting on you.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
Well Ford came in and played her little shrinking violet victim card, had her hair all on her
face, hide my hundred glasses, but she's coming out of the show now, a woman that everybody
says they know that's the big party animal, wild, students give her the lowest ratings
of anybody, very vindictive, very hateful and I mean this is just unbelievable to see
this level of a Jezebel spirit, the spirit of Hillary Clinton, they're God, the man haters,
God, Hillary Clinton was supposed to get in and you know what, she gets to be heard?
She gets to say that she has the credibility of a sieve, you know a good case holds water.
Well this lady is a colander, I mean this lady is what you dump hot pasta into over
the kitchen sink, I mean she is as disingenuous as anything I have ever seen, if I was trying
to typecast someone for a made for TV movie about something like this, I, if I was typecasting
a lying individual, I would typecast her and her story all falls apart and then you've
got a fifth accuser that's withdrawn and said it was a hoax, a fourth accuser called the
senate switchboard last night and they put him through to senators with Kavanaugh and
then interrogated him and the woman said well I'm not going to tell you who I am or where
I'm at but my daughter got raped by many years ago and I saw it.
I mean this is total horsemaner, with Bill Cosby you had witnesses that were at the hotels
with him, you had people that saw the women laid out, he was clearly giving them ludes,
he admitted to it, he'd offer it to them, they'd take it, they'd get bombed out of
their mind, I'm not saying that's a good thing, sounds like some type of form of sexual
assault to me but with this, all five of the witnesses say it never even happened, they
say there's not even a party, he's got alibis, he's got his original calendar, none of it
matters because of the chivalry, why she's a woman, we have to believe her, anybody ever
been in divorce court, you ever experience what that's like?
Everybody knows it's especially women, most of the women I know are the ones that say
this woman has no credibility, they see through her big time at men or all, oh well I don't
want to say that, I want to make brownie points with all the women out there, oh my gosh and
then you've got the high school annuals where it talks about she's the queen of the party,
the wildest girl around and then they run junior high photos of her in the news when
she's 11 years old and they go oh look at the sweet little school girl that got sexually
assaulted, ladies and gentlemen my head is spinning and I agree with the president, a
big fat con job perpetrated by very evil people, furious Trump accused the democrats
of trying to destroy Brett Kavanaugh as nominee battles four sex claims but admits he could
change his mind when he hears Christine Ford testify, well that's going on now and she's
ongoing, we'll have all the highlights, we've got a ton of them here for you, David Knight's
going to be riding shotgun here with us but I want to play what he talked about earlier
David from 1991 the Anita Hill Clarence Thomas hearings with Joe Biden because they all want
this FBI investigation to take six months to stall everything and you better believe
that if we see his nomination derailed that they bring forth Amy Coney Barrett who's even
better than Kavanaugh and who I pushed for and who Roger Stone pushed for and who Patriots
pushed for, she's good looking, has a great record, super smart and very Christian and
you're going to hear that she raped women, just mark my words, oh yeah, all that women
come forward say, you know, she knocked my teeth out and has a black bull whip, it'll
be black bull whip and a cat woman outfit, you think I'm joking, I know the enemy, cat
woman outfit, bull whips, okay, now just like I told you last Tuesday they'll roll out three
more women after her, the last one the night before or the morning of and total precision
so far, now let's go ahead and go to Joe Biden, the political herpes that won't go away who's
everywhere groping, women, children, grabbing men's wives in front of them, grabbing their
rear ends, there's all these photos and videos of men bowing up and Senator Sessions coming
over and like shooing, shooing and like swatting at the hand of Joe Biden when he's like grabbing
the three year old's butt, I mean Joe Biden is a known super racist perv, so let's go
to the super racist perv, here he is, I said from the beginning, this is about whether
or not sexual harassment occurred, and lastly judge, with me from the beginning and at this
moment until the end, the presumption is with you, now we're going to hear more witnesses
are going to come in and cooperate, your position and hers, we'll find out whether they're
telling the truth or not as best as we are capable of doing, just like you as a judge
are when you look them in the eye and make a judgment, so judge this is less directed
at you than it is to my pontificating colleagues, Democrat and Republican alike, so judge, I
have not made my judgment based upon this proceeding because we have not heard all the
evidence, and the last thing I'll point out, the next person that refers to an FBI report
as being worth anything, obviously doesn't understand anything, FBI explicitly does not
in this or any other case, reach a conclusion, period, period, so judge there's no reason
why you should know this, the reason why we cannot rely on the FBI report, you wouldn't
like it if we did, because it is inconclusive, they say he said, she said, and they said,
period, so when people wave an FBI report before you, now let's finish that up, back
it up for a second, do not, they do not, they do not reach conclusions, they do not make
as my friend points out more adequate, they do not make recommendations, that's enough,
isn't it interesting how things have changed in the last couple decades, hard to believe
this is almost 30 years ago, that oh you're innocent until proven guilty and the FBI doesn't
reach conclusions, and you can't just gaunt the reports as if they're findings of fact
as the reports went to the side of Judge Thomas, so Biden's trying to ignore them, but what
he's saying is legitimate, fast forward 28 years or whatever, and now the FBI is a bunch
of total political operatives openly in their own text messages saying we're going to shut
up the president elect, we're going to get rid of him, we're going to show he's guilty,
we're threat fusion GPS, now it's admittedly was funded by George Soros of course, that's
in the news today, we always knew that, that's coming out, the Washington Post reported on
it, and so now you see the Democrats saying you cannot be confirmed, Kavanaugh, you've
been accused, that's it, now there's an older zero hedge article, but let me just, since
you mentioned the Soros thing, I'll pull it up for everybody right here, it's the Washington
Post today, come back from break, we'll cover that, here it is, document cam shot please,
here it is, towards Soros funded fusion GPS, his spokesman confirms Washington Post, okay,
there you go, now, David Knight, we're going to break here, you're going to ride shotgun
and through the hour and into the next with me, and I know you're really fired up about
this, it's 30 seconds before we go to break, what is your first summation covering these
disgusting hearings the last three hours before I got live?
Well in spite of what Sheldon Richmond, or Sheldon White House, I should say, said, who's
a senator from Rhode Island, there are not supported details in this, and as a matter
of fact, she's very sketchy on all these details, whenever she does give us factual details,
they are contradicted by her therapist, or they're contradicted by her lifelong friend,
and as you had Dick Durbin saying it was the Republicans who were obstructing this, Grassley
reminded him it was the Democrats who set on this for 45 days, they're the ones who
are using this FBI thing, not to find facts, but just to clarify, never wonder how Bitcoin
and Ethereum were created, Versailles media has helped hundreds of companies and individuals
make their own cryptocurrency, decentralized blockchain solutions are making the world
more transparent and giving power back to the people, Versailles media has helped companies
raise tens of millions in the past year alone, structuring and marketing ICOs to the thirsty
crypto public worldwide, don't miss the cryptocurrency revolution, visit Versaillesmedia.com, V-E-R-C-E-L,
media.com
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge, control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty
HealthShare, Liberty HealthShare is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients
who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor, learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
When you use public Wi-Fi, hackers and identity thieves can see anything you do online, embarrassing
photos, your web history, even your passwords, that's why I use private internet access to
encrypt my internet connection for less than ten cents a day.
Sign up now at privateinternetaccess.com and in just a few minutes, you'll be browsing
anonymously and only sharing what you want to share.
Privateinternetaccess.com, it's time to protect your online privacy.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
This 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water, the Berkey guy provides the
lowest price filtration systems in every size, for incredibly delicious water now and in
an emergency, get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
UFO Wars Life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine, introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses.
They began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit
of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective, it is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of
triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Visit infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured you're fighting the
Info War, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the U.S.A. Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Waging war on corruption, crashing to the lies of disinformation, covering the Ford
Cavanaugh hearings.
Now she's gone from being horrified to having a fun time.
She's really somebody now.
She's going to stop Donald Trump, she's going to stop America, look, her lawyer.
It's the top swamp lawyer for Andy McCabe and George Soros, oh, I forgot he works for
him too.
Oh, it's just George Soros' top lawyer and the swamp's lawyer that openly works for
Mueller, it's just Mueller and Comey's and McCabe's guy, there he is, veteran prosecutor
Michael Bromwich joins Cavanaugh accusers legal team.
Look at that little ferret, he'll teach America, you're not going to stop us America.
We own you.
David Knight is riding shotgun with me.
Let's go to this clip from about 45 minutes ago and we'll get to some of the other low
lights and get David to take care of a moment as we cover this electronic lynch mob.
I mean, Cavanaugh is totally credible, comes off just like Clarence Thomas, he's telling
the truth, plus her story's falling apart.
This lady is a vicious fruit loop in my view and she's just part of this whole leftist
slander machine in my view.
You know, there's other men coming forward saying we were at a party and we might have
been drunk and fallen on her on a bed.
I don't believe any of it.
We're going to get into some of the former prosecutor, the expert on sex crimes that
cut her apart earlier, where oh, there was no music, what there was music and then they
turned the music up and it's just, and then it was a party but there were five people
but all five of them say there wasn't a party, never happened.
Your witnesses say it didn't happen and it's 36 years ago, game over, dingbat, battleaxe.
Just because you are a psychology professor that lords over your students that call you
mean and vindictive, just because you're the chief cook and bottle washer around here,
doesn't mean you get to run America in the ground and here's the good news, no matter
what happens at Kavanaugh, America is getting battle hardened to the satanic left now.
You know, have they asked her about how they said she was Mrs. Party Animal in the high
school annuals and describe her passing out and how much she loved to forget what happened
because it let her do whatever she wanted, none of that's being brought up, none of it.
I'm so angry, I can barely even do this broadcast, let's go to the clip of Senator Durbin making
a good point about, you know, oh, you seem horrified, oh, well, you know, there's men
come forward, stories are on infowars.com and they believe that that's where the story
came from, not her, but again, you're not seeing much of this being covered as the plot
thickens, so let's go to this clip.
And then we will go back to David Knight here today, we'll go to that clip later, okay.
Defense of mistaken identity directly, Dr. Ford, with what degree of certainty do you
believe Brett Kavanaugh assaulted you? 100%. In the letter which you sent to Senator Feinstein,
you wrote, I have not knowingly seen Kavanaugh since the assault, I did see Mark Judge once
at the Potomac Village Safeway where he was extremely uncomfortable in seeing me. Would
you please describe that encounter at the Safeway with Mark Judge and what led you to
believe he was uncomfortable? Yes, I was going to the Potomac Village Safeway,
this is the one on the corner of Falls and River Road, and I was with my mother and I
was a teenager, so I wanted her to go in one door and me go in the other, so I chose the
wrong door because the door I chose was the one where Mark Judge was.
And then she goes on to say 100% that it was Kavanaugh, and the reason I bring this up
is none of this story holds together, and you've got Hillary and the globalists fighting
the Arab Spring that killed hundreds of thousands of people per country, tens of thousands of
women and children in sex slavery, Hillary famously represents pedophiles, you've got
them trying to put boys' intents with girls and in girls' bathrooms at the Boy Scouts
of America, they're teaching newborn babies that they are not boys or not girls, they
are running around sexualizing our children, Hollywood is a cesspit, and you've got deep
state swamp lawyers swimming around up front, completely predatorally, and it's just ridiculous
how these people are playing us like a fiddle. I'm going to get to more of these highlights
in a moment, David Knight, we've got the raw satellite feed and a lot more coming up and
some of her statement, of course we'll cover Kavanaugh, Gabel to Gabel as that unfolds,
but what is your gut level now that you've seen her testify and seen this spectacle
and to see that swamp top lawyer of the Clinton apparatus perched right beside her, I mean
to me this is as phony as a plastic banana.
Yeah, you know Alex, she said that she's 100% certain, but she doesn't have much in
terms of detail, and what she does have in terms of detail is supported by other people.
One that's testimony earlier today, Alex, she talked about Laylin, and of course that's
the person that she said was her lifelong friend, Laylin Kaiser. Now Laylin Kaiser's
lawyer, and purportedly she was, Laylin was supposed to be at this party or this gathering
whatever it was, she was supposed to have been there along with Christine Ford and the three
named individuals, one of them being Brett Kavanaugh, the other Mark Judge, Patrick Smith
and so forth. Now everybody has said, except for Christine Ford, that this didn't happen.
So all the other four people said it didn't happen, including her lifelong friend. As
a matter of fact, her lawyer, the lawyer for the lifelong friend, Laylin Kaiser, said simply
put Ms. Kaiser does not know Mr. Kavanaugh, she has no recollection of ever being at a
party or gathering where he was present, either with or without Dr. Ford. And so every time
you look at the details here, as a matter of fact, she doesn't know exactly where this
took place. She remembers, as you just played that, she remembers going to a particular
grocery store where Mark Judge was working, but she doesn't remember anything about this
house.
We're also going to play this clip later when we come back, where she says, I remembered
the assault when the media came to my house and there was a dog and you're like, she could
just be completely insane as well.
Well, one of the things she said was, she doesn't remember the house, she doesn't remember
the street, she doesn't remember the day, the month, and she doesn't even really remember
the year because she inferred it. And she said in her testimony earlier today, she said,
well, I think it was that year because it was before I was driving, so I was 15. Well,
okay, so it was before you were driving. How did you get to and from this house? I mean,
there's so many holes in the details of this and that's really what the issue is. Again,
she deserves to be heard, but she doesn't deserve to be believed. And she has to be credible
on these details and she's not, she's contradicted on these details.
Do you agree with me that she is one of the worst witnesses I've ever seen?
Yeah. And I think that what we have seen from Abinadi in the last 24 hours is even worse.
And I think it's going to energize the Republican base. They understand what this is all about.
They've seen this kind of obstruction happening over the last two years with President Trump.
They've seen the coup and so forth. And I think that this is the ultimate unraveling,
I hope it is at least, of all of this identity politics stuff.
I agree. This is going to the nth degree.
We got a bunch of clips coming up. I'm so upset by them tearing our country apart like
this and the obvious lies here and this thing being completely fake in front of everyone
and then still watching the senators fall over themselves to grovel to this leftist,
Hillary worshiping Democrat party operative with swamp creatures to her left and right
puppeteering her.
Ever wonder how Bitcoin and Ethereum were created?
Versel Media has helped hundreds of companies and individuals make their own cryptocurrency.
Decentralized blockchain solutions are making the world more transparent and giving power
back to the people. Versel Media has helped companies raise tens of millions in the past
year alone, structuring and marketing ICOs to the thirsty crypto public worldwide.
Don't miss the cryptocurrency revolution. Visit verselmedia.com, V-E-R-C-E-L, media.com.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn
American made jeans. Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road,
Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion. To find
yours, visit gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com. Our loyal customers enable us to continue
sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to. In Liberty, David
Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I cannot
say it any clearer. It is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with
colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine. You cannot beat that for children
and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad, the colloidal
silver iodine as well. Infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139. Your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. That's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or
to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk. Believe me,
I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every
day, but thanks to SupermailVitality at infowarstore.com, I still have that energy. There's no way
I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals and
the food and water, to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time
and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive, to
get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SupermailVitality before it's gone. This is actually our last
run of SupermailVitality. So I want you to experience SupermailVitality before it's
too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you with SupermailVitality from infowarstore.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found
here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater and we need
to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower the pH of the water
to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity
and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and
acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels. As
it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what we've
learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply. But more
importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on, or your mind.
I've said it many times, if you go to these universities or go to leftist areas, I don't
care, they're black, white, old, young, the people look like something's wrong with them.
And she looks like the quintessential just nut professor. And the ratings on her said
she's horrible, vindictive, lazy. There she is. She's the big star now. 36 years later,
all her witnesses say it didn't happen. Doesn't matter. She's up there smiling. She's gonna
save America from America. Look at her. It's so pleased. She's pleased as pie. She's looking
up the Democratic senators smiling like a little doggy. Did I do good? Am I doing good
for the swamp creatures holding my hand? For McCabe and Comey's lawyers? And the answer
is yes, you're doing a very good job. And then when the Republicans talked to her, she
went, we're sorry, we're sorry. You're right. Kavanaugh, we'll have Kavanaugh executed,
okay? And then the headlines. I've got them right here. Last night, an anonymous woman
called the switchboard and was put through and she says she saw her daughter raped by
him. She wouldn't say where she was or what year, but that's a fourth person. Ring ring.
Oh, random. No call already. And that's the new thing. I told you about this when I got
doxxed five days ago. They put my cell phone number out. I have to get a new phone and
I have women calling up saying, oh, I saw you in DC, but I had a really good time. Let's
meet again. I'm like, I was with no women in DC. Another call. Oh, I had fun with you,
but you know, you were a little bit rough and I'm just like, click block number and
then men call them and say, F you, we're going to get you. That's who these people are. So
I guess they might just randomly call the capital switchboard and say I raped somebody. In fact,
I thought about calling the capital switchboard myself and going, hello, my name's Alice,
but I'm not going to tell you who I am or where I am. Brett Kavanaugh gang raped me
with 14 elves. Yes, it was 49 years ago. And Brett Kavanaugh, he also played my skin and
pulled my fingernails out with pliers. And then he had an electric drill and he drilled
my kneecaps. Yes, ma'am. We're very sorry. Now this is anonymous. I'm not going to tell
you where we're in just okay. Kavanaugh evil. Click on anonymous accuser says Kavanaugh
drilled their kneecaps with a black and decker drill. I'm going to play these clips and go
back to David. I need to maybe leave the room for a few minutes because this is just, I
can't look at her. It's like Hillary. This is just a bug eyed vampire bat look that these
people have. And just knowing how she sits and perches, you know, on top of her students
and just these universities are these anti free speech lie machines. And I've experienced
the left and their victory all like fraud and their disinformation. So maybe I'm biased.
But what I know is top swamp creature lawyer right there of the deep state. And I got some
big Twitter news coming up. So let's go and start getting these clips here. And the David's
I got a lot he wants to get to two. So we'll go to him in a moment. I'm really trying to
compose myself right now. Here's President Trump saying guilty until proven innocent
is very, very dangerous. Yeah, guilty until proven innocent. That is what you call tyranny.
Here it is. This is everything to do with our country. When you are guilty until proven
innocent. It's just not supposed to be that way. Always I heard you're innocent until
proven guilty. I've heard this for so long. And it's such a beautiful phrase. In this
case, you're guilty until proven innocent. I think that is a very, very dangerous standard
for our country. With that being said, I look forward to what she has to say. I also look
very forward to what Judge Kavanaugh has to say. I think it's going to be a very, very
important day in the history of our country. I want to start getting some of her statement.
And then you can compare it to her hours later. She looks like she's having the town of her
life and the whole demeanor is different. It's just mind blowing, absolutely mind blowing.
But going back to David, not before we start playing these clips of Christine Ford, it's
all going to hinge on what Kavanaugh comes out and says today and it's all going to hinge
on Trump sticking by him and us sticking by him because now we're sticking by due process.
We're sticking by common sense. We're sticking by the facts, David, and we're sticking by
the statute of limitations. I mean, this is Salem witch trial type stuff. Well, how do
you know she's a witch? Well, she's got a mole on her nose. This is really upsetting
me at a level I've not yet been upset by. What is your view on this fiasco? I mean, this
is...
Yeah, it is a witch hunt. It is a witch hunt. It's the witches that are hunting right now.
Now, going back to the Joe Biden thing, Alex, I remember those hearings. I was taking a
vacation with my wife at the time and other than the arrogance of Joe Biden that you could
see in that clip when we played that, the thing that I remember about those hearings
was how he hammered Clarence Thomas over the idea that Clarence Thomas believed that we
as individuals had natural rights. And I thought at the time, I said, this is outrageous.
Why isn't this what everybody is talking about? Because that's what the Declaration of Independence
is about, the fact that we have natural rights because we're humans, because we were given
that by God and so forth. And Joe Biden hated that about Clarence Thomas. And then we move
forward. It was only six years, seven years after that, that Anita Hill and all the Democrats
did not believe when either Broderick or Kathleen Willey or Paula Jones, they didn't have a
right to be heard or believed. And so I saw all that hypocrisy and that really factors
into all this. I'll say one more thing here too. And that is this process. I don't really
think this serves the Republicans well. I think that Grassley has been played by Schumer
and these other people. And I think this whole process where they got a female special counsel,
she's going in and questioning Ford on details is very dry, is very arcane. She's not drawing
any conclusions. And she has a short period of time, she asks these questions, and then
they switch over abruptly to a Democrat. And the Democrats will lay out all these conclusions
and summarize everything in a very visceral and emotional way for Dr. Ford. And then she'll
just go, Oh, yeah, that's right. That's exactly the way that it is. This is not serving the
Republicans very well on this. It's going to really hinge on Brett Kavanaugh and how
he does. I don't really know how that process is going to work. I don't know who's going
to be questioning him over these issues. But the way they've got this going back and forth
between the female special counsel and the Democrat senators who are covering for her
is really not a good idea. And next hour, because they're going to launch here soon,
we were going to play large segments of the cross examination. And the lady's overly
nice to her. It's very, very sappy. But she does just find total contradictions everywhere.
I mean, if this was... Oh, yeah, a lot of contradictions. Yeah. And if she would hammer
on those, she doesn't draw the conclusions on this. She'll say some things. She'll hammer,
put the stuff out there, just like the therapist. The therapist was taking notes concurrent with
what was going on. She had written notes going back six years. And in those notes, Dr. Ford
was saying there were four boys there. Now she says there's two. In those notes, Ford
said that she was in her later teens. Now she says, well, I think because I wasn't driving
at the time, I was maybe 15. But we're supposed to believe Ford and her memory, which she
is very, very sketchy on all the details, but not believe what the therapist wrote down
at the time. And of course, one of the things that is key about this is that according to
her recollection, Dr. Ford said that she used Brett Kavanaugh's name at that therapy session.
And there's nothing about his name in those notes either. And so all of this looks like
this is something that is convenient for the Democrats, convenient for a political agenda,
but it doesn't have anything to do with the actual...
Well, of course it is. And now, as I predicted, three more women, four total, exactly as I
predicted, I'm not bragging, it's just true, because I can see the formality of this. And
now he may never get confirmed because they'll probably have 20 more by next week. I mean,
it's going to just get more and more outlandish. And it just gives you an idea that we have
a real crop of globalist trash up there in Schumer and all these people. But that's
their Achilles heel too, because I agree with David Knight. This is really turning America
off to these people. Everybody I know is seeing right through this, especially after Ford got
up there and testified. He is the most disingenuous person I think I've ever seen.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now. Info
Awards is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt
justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate. People say, why would you start
a fight with them? Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this. So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and
why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us and if you spread
the word about our articles and videos, infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against
these brutal scum bags, we'll win. We have huge sales at infowars.com right now. And
we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you, despite
the fact we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market. But if you
don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Global Spain win. This is InfoWars
Darkness Hour. We're your support. I'm counting on you.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily. That's why InfoWars
Life created the powerful Vitamin Mineral Fusion Formula, the new platinum standard
of advanced multivitamin formulation. Vitamin Mineral Fusion uses a unique delivery system
to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot
summer day or relaxing at home, Vitamin Mineral Fusion is loaded with 34 different essential
vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more. Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting,
natural and affordable drink mix with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at InfoWarsStore.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body. That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense
Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars. It is a classical
360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we
believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of
this country and the world that Patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as
you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and
your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies
with Z Shield InfoWarsLife.com. We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas
we've ever offered with even better ingredients. Ultimate bone broth. InfoWarsLife is proud
to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits. This incredible
formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high
quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet. Built with more
than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, Ultimate Bone Broth will help support
your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's
fight against free radicals. This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested
ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa
herb powder to support your body. It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can
do for you. Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. From the front lines of the Information War,
Alex Jones.
By the way, I'm not joking, I'm kind of having an anxiety attack on air right now, and I'm
a tough guy, I could take a lot of crap, but these very people, these very democratic
operatives have been trying to ruin my life and take my kids away and lying about me and
I'm sick of it. But they're a bunch of fricking scum. That's why I'm really pissed off. These
law firms and these people, these very sane people. I had Mueller try to set me up a few
weeks ago and I can't even talk about it yet. So I'm going to let David Knight take over
for this segment. I'm sorry, I got to go walk around or something because I'm trying to
not get angry and I usually control my anger, David, but I saw you get angry too this morning.
How did you get so angry? I mean, this is not justice. This isn't even what third world
countries do and just to know the left is really this bad. I mean, they published that
I wear Nazi tennis shoes and hate black people and then they get people to lie a hundred
percent that I never did anything to. It's like, where are the morals? What is wrong
with this country? Go ahead, David.
Well, Alex, what I got upset about was the fact that I've been put in Twitter jail for
a week, evidently, because yesterday I had the audacity to talk about the transgender
agenda and how all these Democrats who pretend that they are there to protect women and children
are doing just the opposite. They're demanding and it was just a couple of years ago. The
Obama administration was threatening to penalize schools that didn't allow physically male
individuals to go into dressing rooms and bathrooms and showers and so forth with girls.
Remember Cuomo tweeted two years ago that if your 11-year-old daughter doesn't want
to see a man come in the shower at her school, that you're a bigot and she's a bigot.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So let's do something about that. Let's protect them and let's talk
about the statute of limitations, especially when you hear all these Democrats talking
about how, well, it's so long ago, it's just really hard for me to remember all the details.
I just have a visceral impression of the attack and I remember the individual, but I don't
remember any other details. Well, okay, and they keep saying, well, this happens all the
time. People take a long time to come to terms with this and that is true. And if they were
concerned about protecting people, again, especially children who have an even longer
amount of time that it takes them to come to detail to bring this out, stop the statute
of limitations on attacks against kids, which are typically only about three years. We're
talking about them. The Democrats are fighting in Pennsylvania and other areas to keep the
statute of limitations because they want to protect the pedophile rings. You're absolutely
correct. And I was going to get to the Twitter thing later. So let's do that next hour.
We have fan pages that sent us this information as well. Some of these aren't even Twitters.
We don't really use Twitter anymore because they all the big ones they banned. Paul still
has his. They said, because I criticized Obama and the deep state. Wait till you see the
tweet coming up that it was hateful. There it is. Let me read you. Since David raises,
let me just go ahead and get to this now. You know what? I'm going to wait till next
hour. It's too huge. It's too insane. Wait till you hear the tweet that they say is racist.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is unbelievable. Wait till you hear this. Criticizing Obama,
period, is now racist. You will be banned from Twitter. But David, since we talk about
this, let's start getting the clips of her. Here she is bizarrely, just like I predicted
last week when I said there would be three more women. That's four total by the day of
the hearing. So by Thursday. And if you pull back from this, I also said every woman that
was ever in the same town as Kavanaugh, college, high school, you name it, was being canvassed
by databases and reporters. And she had mixed that. She decided to start going public when
the reporters are looking through her window at her dog. And this has happened to me and
everybody else that's prominent that works here. They call everyone that ever knew you
or they think knows you and they start offering cash to lie. Now, that's what I'm saying
is the left has gone pure weaponized folks. They're not even media. They are organized
crime mafias. CNN is a criminal news network. So here is Ms. Ford before the electronic
lynching of Kavanaugh. When she decided to do this, just as I said she did. Here it is.
How did you decide to come forward? Ultimately, because reporters were sitting outside of my
home and trying to talk to my dog through the window to calm the dog down. And a reporter
appeared in my graduate classroom and I mistook her for a student. And she came up to ask
me a question and I thought that she was a student and it turned out that she was a reporter.
So at that point I felt like enough was enough. People were calling my colleagues at Stanford
and leaving messages on their voicemails and on their emails saying that they knew my name.
Clearly people knew my address because they were out in front of my house. And it's just
the mounting pressure. It seemed like it was time to just say what I needed to say.
I'm sorry. I want to ask you one question about the attack itself.
You can pause again. The attack. Now it's the attack, see? Well, again, David Knight,
she decided to do it because the reporters came to her. There you go, David.
Yeah. This is kind of interesting because you know this other individual who said, I'm
not going to talk, her lawyer said, well, just read the New Yorker, you know, those
Ronan Farrow's story. And the New York Times said we didn't find that credible. We talked
to a dozen different people that didn't find Ramirez's story credible. Now, Ronan Farrow
went on with George Stephanopoulos and he was questioning him about that. And at the
time he said, you know, you know, she took six days to talk to her lawyer and to go back
and pour over her memories to try to, you know, fix this. And we thought it was important
to go ahead and put this story out because she was being pressured by Democrats and put
it into a corner. And so we know that this is what's happening. We know the Democrats
are pressuring them to come up with some solution to come up with some delays and so forth.
And Ronan Farrow actually mentioned that that was the case for the Democrats. And then in
subsequent press conferences, you had two Democrat senators that were asked point blank.
Did you pressure her to do this? And what did you know about Ramirez and so forth? And
so she's not going to be testifying. And she was the second person who came out. She's
just referring back to this discredited story.
And that's the thing, David. It's every witness says the opposite of what these women say.
And then with some of these women, as you just mentioned, Ramirez, we're learning about
restraining orders and women saying that they threatened them and anger management issues
and all sorts of weird stuff in their background. And they're all a bunch of psychology professor
lunatics in my view. Everybody knows that, you know, most of these psychologists, you
know, got the inmates running the asylum. I mean, the highest rate of suicide of any
profession is psychologists and psychiatrists. Most of them get into it because they're crazier
than a, you know, what house rat.
So
Right. Well, you know, one of the things about this, the statement from Christine Ford, if
you look at it, it's very sketchy on details. And it's about a five page or a written type
out statement here. And there's less than a page that actually has to do with the alleged
attack. But one of the things that she says here, I'll read from her report, I remember
my friend, Lailin Ingham, attending. Well, Lailin doesn't remember that. And she continues
to talk about as if Lailin is, and Lailin has been very emphatic. I never was at this
party.
I was never at any party. I never met Brett Kavanaugh.
For weeks have been saying she's wrong. And she's testifying still using them. Like, you
know, David Knight, David Knight, you know, you know, saw me climb Mount Everest. And
David's like, no, I never been to Tibet, never saw him climb Mount Everest. Yeah, David was
there. And David vouches for the fact that I can fly around and I have wings. They was
like, no, I, but David says, David says, you know, I mean, it's crazy.
Yeah. And you know, her friend Lailin is a female. And so she deserves to be believed
as well. I mean, I know we just throw out all these other men who were there because
men can't be believed. But Lailin, her lifelong friend says, I wasn't there. And she continues
to put it in her statement, continued to use it today. And it has been totally refuted
by Lailin. And so that's indicative of what is throughout this thing. Also, she says,
well, I don't have any answers. And I don't remember as much as I would like to. I've
been asked about all these details, but 100% he assaulted me. I don't remember where I
was, how old, how I got there, where the hell it was. But it's him. It's him. It's
him. And the psychologists don't say it. And no, they don't either. Because everything
you say is absolute BS. David, stay there. We're going to come back and we're going
to get into more of the clubs. They've got lunch coming. You know, they're going to
lunch and then we're going to have her come finish back and then in the cabin always going
to come in. We're going to cover that gavel to gavel because quite frankly, I'm trying
to spare everybody watching and listening to her is just like nails on the chalkboard.
But I'm looking at her. It's not that she's old or wrinkled. It's the spirit of these
people just makes me want to climb the walls, man. The disingenuousness, the sneakiness,
the weakness, the, the fallen nature, you know, the groveling to the Democrats, the frowning
at the Republicans, the, the lapdog, you know, sycophantic behavior is disgusting. And it's
time for good people to take this country back, ladies and gentlemen, because I can't
handle it anymore. And I know you can't handle it. And they want our children, my God, they
want to start giving them chemicals at birth to change their quote gender. It is insane.
I've been so upset. I haven't even plugged a day without your financial support. George
Soros and the globalist will win. We have huge specials in four store.com. Brain force
40% off, secret 12, 40% off last run. X2. This is the last run. We haven't gotten rid
of that special yet, but this will be the final day in four worse store.com in fours
live.com without you. George Soros will destroy us with your support. We will defeat him
and his monster sign. We'll be back. The scientists at info wars life have created
a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support. Discover the power of ancient
medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties. Our pure turmeric
extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more. Regular turmeric
root from the store only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root
extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients. Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs
such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Buy bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the info war. And now because
of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com
forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the censors can get between
us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it. And so now I ask
you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people
about the local stations you're listening to. But the bare minimum you can do is sign
up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the Renaissance
and we are winning.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right. I've gotten old fashioned angry. I've been more
calm over the years, but I just watching this miscarriage of justice and the insanity of
the Kavanaugh witch hunt, electronic lynching. I mean, if you thought the Clarence Thomas
gang gang up was bad, this is just unbelievable. And again, as funny as the $3 bill, the Democrats
are the ones the long history of abusing women and being into weird stuff and then having
a double standard for themselves. Next segment, I'm going to ask David Knight this critical
question. I want to do it now. Some stations don't carry this segment. Gut level. I want
to get this called out now. Will Kavanaugh yet confirm now? He should. He better. We'll
talk about the reasons why, but I think it's all up to Trump and all up to us. But regardless,
the good is coming out of this because this is so transparent and so over the top that
this is going to really harden the resolve of the American people that we have cancer
in this country. The Democrats are not a viable party at any level. They are. They are a lawless
group of criminals that have degenerated to a level of just pure megalomania. And so it's
us or them and it's a battle to the end. It's a death battle. I don't mean physical death
battle means it's, it's, it's no holds bar, no quarter given, none taken. They will break
any rule. They will do anything. They get caught doing it. It's in the WikiLeaks, but,
but, but, and we're also going to play our statement about, Oh, I thought he was going
to kill me. I thought I was going to die. Even if it's true, rolling around for 10 seconds
on a bed drunkenly, which obviously it's all falling apart. Just the adding, I thought
I was going to die. David, this, she looks so coached. And she obviously hasn't been
coached well. And the way she's stammering these things out, she'll give a statement
that was already in her statement word for word, but then five minutes later, can't
remember it and says the opposite, which shows that when she, she's not good at staying
on script. David, I mean, this is, this will be studied by law schools for, for, for decades
to come as I think some of the most disingenuous testimony in planetary history.
You know, Alex, it's hard for me to judge because I don't find her credible on the details.
I'm looking at the statement and so forth. I don't know how this is going to play, but
I don't think that people are really going to, they've already made up their mind for
the most part, people on both sides of this. I think even more important than what is going
to happen in this hearing is what came out with Avinati at the last minute. And I think
that is the real issue. When you look at what came out about this 100% credible accuser
that he had, and then what her ex-boyfriend had to do 17 years ago in 2001, he had to
take out a restraining order against her. He said, she was threatening my family, threatening
my wife, threatening to do harm to my baby at the time. And this guy is a registered
Democrat. And how did Avinati respond to that? He said, why are you attacking a sexual assault
victim? It's like, seriously, this was something that was recorded 17 years ago. And so I think
what we're seeing here with Avinati, I think he's done us all a big favor. This guy who
has soaked up all these, all this TV time and everything has put this out there.
Let's go to the specifics of that because it's all just mixing together these women
and then other accusers and then anonymous calls. And then Cabinoles asked about calls
to the switchboard. I mean, somebody called up and say, I saw Cabinoles raping Puff the
magic dragon. And I mean, they're going to call him up and say, did you ever hurt Puff?
I mean, it's insane. Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is a woman who supposedly said these
high school boys had this gang rape series of parties. She was in college when they
were in high school and she went to 10 of these parties. So if any of this is true,
why is she going to parties that high school boys are drugging and raping women and doing
it 10 times? Why didn't she report it? Yeah, exactly. It's absurd on the face of it. Well,
the burden's on them. And then they're not showing any of it. I mean, they lay their
hand down. They don't even have any cards.
We all know the importance of fish oils. While we are sure to provide them for ourselves,
it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA to honor role is a
powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child built from the ground up to support your child's
development. This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultra purified krill oil and wild
salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body. With this fish oil
formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive and brain health while
providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly
refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals. If you're looking for a formula to help your
child grow, look no further. Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
You know, this is giving me a headache because you've got four women now, one of them completely
anonymous that called into the switchboard. You've got the news running with it. You've
got the porn lawyer running around, you know, engaged in his bizarre behavior. You've got
Schwetnick and people saying there's restraining orders out on her. And then her lawyer saying,
well, how dare you attack, you know, a sex victim, sex crime victim. And I just can't
keep track of it. And then in every case, when they go talk to the women's witnesses,
they say it's not true. And then it just piles on and piles on and piles on. And then I watched
Ford get cross-examined. And we're going to be playing that coming at the bottom of
the hour. And she just doesn't even know what planet she's on. And none of it matches up
minute to minute. So I'm going to ask you the question. I want to go through the women
one by one here and be specific. Are they thinking of someone else that did this to
them? Are some of them crazy? Are some of them caught up in Trump derangement syndrome?
Are they being coached? Are they lying? All we know is none of it adds up. There's no
witnesses. It's 36 years old. You've got swamp lawyers on each side. And this sets the precedent
of guilty until proven innocent. As the president said, this is incredibly dangerous. And I've
experienced the Democrats manufacture whole cloth lies about me and just outrageous stories.
So they'll sound believable because they're so crazy. So but I want to ask you this question.
Gut level. Do you think Kavanaugh gets confirmed? A, B, if he doesn't, what happens if he does?
What happens? Well, President Trump has said that if he doesn't get the confirmation vote,
which is scheduled to take place tomorrow, that he's going to have a replacement within
an hour. I don't know who that's going to be. I wish, as you had said at the beginning
of the broadcast, I wish it had been Amy Barrett because I liked her on the issues better.
She was clerking for Scalia. This guy has been involved with Kennedy, who has been very,
very unreliable, very status. He's connected with all the Republican establishment. So
I'm not a fan of Brett Kavanaugh, but I don't like this process. I don't like what me too
has become where all men are instantly guilty. And they have to try to prove that they're
innocent. We saw this with Roy Moore. And of course, Roy Moore was not part of the GOP
establishment. I've always believed that it was because he went to Capitol Hill after
he won the primary and started talking about how he's going to oppose Mitch McConnell. I
always believe that it came that attack came from Mitch McConnell. And they treat him the
same way they knew they could get away with us. We had that precedent set that you're
guilty and you can't prove that you're innocent. And so I think he's still going to, I think
he'll make the vote, Alex. I think he's still going to make this vote. But when we look
at these charges here, they're not credible. Christine Ford is the, I would say she's,
all the rest of these are just patently absurd in the same way that it was with Roy Moore.
All of the allegations against him. I mean, people were coming up with things. Well, he
asked out a woman who was 18 years old, 10 years younger than him at the time. She was
working in the mall. He asked her out for a date. Can you believe that? And it's like,
what's, what's even wrong with that? There was one, he said, she said that should have
been looked at, but then it comes down to credibility. And that's the situation we've
got here. So that's why they pulled in Christine Ford. All these other people, Ramirez, Avenatti's,
last minute, 100% credible witness, Julie Sweatnick, none of these things and these
anonymous charges, that's all going to fall by the wayside. They pile these other things
on to try to give it weight when they've got one, he said, she said, event. And I don't
think that this is going to, certainly not in the court of public opinion. I don't think
that it's going to work, but who knows what's going to happen in the Senate. This is close
to the election. I still think that he gets through.
I agree. If we stick by him, if Trump sticks by him and he's certainly not perfect, I agree,
Barrett, Amy Cohen, Barrett, much, much better. And they're going to have a lot of trouble
saying she raped anybody. And, you know, he's got some neocon connections I don't like.
But obviously they know that he's going to back Trump. And he believes in the separate
equal clauses that he believes in the executive power. And they don't want that now. They
wanted that when it was Obama or the Clintons. Now, the fact that they've given the president
quite frankly, all the dictatorial powers over the economy and Trump's using them to
fix things has them in panic mode. And so to be clear here, because earlier, I'm mixing
all these women together and getting upset. It's Swetnik who reportedly has the restraining
order and all the fights. And I want you to get at that specifically because I was conflating
that with Deborah Mirage. She is alleged in a report published by the New Yorker magazine
that Cabinon exposed himself in a drunken dormitory party and showed his penis in her
face, forcing her to touch it while pushing him away. When Mirage was alleged, the assault
occurred during an 83, 84 school year at Yale University where they were both students.
And then they've talked to the witnesses and they've said that they were at no such party
and never saw that. Now, they did talk about somebody falling through a ceiling. It wasn't
Cabinon and a keg party. So that's, that's the big proof. But I was conflating her accidentally
with Julie Swetnik of Washington, a legend sworn testimony Wednesday that Cabinon was
present at the 80s house party at which she was gang raped in a testimony submitted by
the Senate Judiciary Committee. And then of course, that's by Michael Abinadi, a true
slime bulb. And then now there was a fourth accuser came forward last night. They put
all of the notes and then later this morning, oh, it was an anonymous call. So they've removed
that. I mean, this is getting ridiculous. And police will tell you in any big case,
David, as you know, that when there's a big serial killer on the loose or something happens
or the firebombing of the governor's mansion, that hundreds of crazies came in and said
they were guilty or hundreds of witnesses came in and said, they saw it for sure what
happened and they did. And so in any big mega case like this, you're going to end up out
of, you know, 100 plus million women, a good third of them, you know, crazy Hillary worshipers
that are going to, even if they got assaulted sometime in their life, they're going to then
remember that it's Brett Cabinon. And that's what's happened. So I want to ask you about
that, but then separately, what about these two men that have come forward and said that
they were in a party, they were drunk and they were falling on beds with women at that
time, younger women, and that they believe that one of the women looked like Dr. Ford.
I mean, that right there is big news, but that's just swept under the rug.
Well, of course, they're not credible because they're men. And this is what Sheldon White
asked. Sheldon Whitehouse from Rhode Island, he was the one, he's put forward two of these
anonymous claims in the last 24 hours. One of them, the woman, the mother who said, yeah,
my daughter was on a boat in 1985 and so forth. And Brett Cabinon, I said, I was never in
that area. I was never on a boat. I was never on a boat with Mark Judge. And so that's one
anonymous accusation that's been put forth by Sheldon Whitehouse.
Again, let's pull back from there. I forgot about the fifth one they've already withdrawn
because it was totally fraud.
That's right. There was another anonymous that was put forward also by Sheldon Whitehouse,
that senator from Rhode Island. And this was a guy who had heard that some girl had
been assaulted by Brett Kavanaugh. He did it anonymously. They figured out who this
guy was. And as soon as his name was released, he said, no, no, no, I take it back. I was
mistaken. This is the nature of this. And two of these anonymous things have been put
through with Sheldon Whitehouse. But when he was questioning Christine Ford, Sheldon
Whitehouse says, well, you know, you've done everything. You've had a lie detector test
as if those things are worthwhile. My wife worked as a personnel manager, district personnel
manager for a convenience store. Whenever there was a problem, they would always do
lie detector tests. They didn't believe any of that stuff. It was not important, except
as an intimidation factor. But nevertheless, you know, we took a lie detector test, you
did this, you did this, and never mentioning the fact that all these witnesses have contradicted
her written and oral testimony and never mentioning these other people on all of this.
But again, it's Sheldon Whitehouse who's putting out all this stuff. And this is the way Alexis
is running in the hearing. They're having this female special counsel that's going through
some of the details, but then never drawing a conclusion, never pointing out, but you
said this and they said that, not doing a good job of putting those things. She questions
her on the details, but she doesn't say, but that contradicts what you said before. She
never says that. Instead, they go to the Democrats and the Democrats lay out all this stuff in
a very emotional way and then have Christine Ford agree with it.
That's right. And of course, you know, why not just have Peter Strock do the lie detector
test. We're just here, oh, someone from the FBI formerly. And then again, she has the
swamp lawyers all around her in there. We're going to go to break. We're going to come
back and play her opening statement part of it and how she thought she was going to die.
And then we're going to get to the former female prosecutor on sex crimes that interviewed
her and the whole thing fell apart from there. And then I'll give you a timeframe when we
come back on when Brett Gabbana is scheduled to testify in full wars.com news wars.com
tomorrow's news today. Please spread the links. Please spread the articles. Please subscribe
to the free podcast and tell everyone you know about the show. That's how we break the
will of the globalist and defeat her attempt to smash the first amendment and kill the
American renaissance. Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang
of thieves ransacked the place. And what they don't steal will be destroyed this year. Resolve
not to be the next victim of a break in. Go to fake TV dot com and discover a device that
creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away. Security
is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not
fearful. Fake TV dot com. It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need,
period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and
other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it
all at only two cents per gallon. Get the original most trusted name in gravity water
filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using
code GCN. Call or click 1877 99 Berkey or big Berkey water filters dot com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Bacon lovers, we ship free. Try our amazing bacon. No refrigeration required. Proprietary
value added packaging provides 10 year shelf life and protects the leanest, thickest, center
cut, fully cooked bacon in America today. Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and
serve. Savory and delicious. Wholesale price for your everyday use. Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize
my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then and I've been beating
them ever since. I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people
deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you
go to taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax
case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com. That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing and Survival
Still X2 is the pure iodine. No one else has this from deep earth crystals between 7 and
12,000 feet. It's very hard for me to get. It's the good halogen. But instead they hammer
you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all
your cells, your thyroid, you name it. Myotrysilinium goes with it like a horse of carriage. Silinium
is an electrochemical. It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly
neurons. So these go incredibly well together. We have a combo of those. Just experience it
for yourself. Why do you think they fear me so much? Very simple stuff. Fill to your
water. Yeah, I find myself some water filters. Best out there for the price. When I say it's
the last run, I think it'll be six bucks a year until we get more. I hope we get more.
This is the last run it looks like. Survival Still X2, M4WarsTour.com or M4WarsLife.com
or AAA-253-3139.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily
Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and
carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients
you receive. There's no better way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic
supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with
carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas
fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible
formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age and
outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well
they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support
recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Like the 300, we politically have to stand our ground. This is the big globalist counter
assault. China is threatening war against the U.S. This is an incredible time to be
alive right now. Start of the next segment, I'm going to give you some incredible censorship
news that is next level. It ties into the hearings yesterday that I should have been
at with Google lying through their teeth saying they don't censor anybody and they're
not working with China. They know nothing about it. You talk about lying to Congress.
The head of global privacy at Google is quite the liar. Just the name. Oh, the head of privacy
when they're all about raping your privacy. Inherently in a satanic attempt at omnipresence.
David Knight's writing shotgun with us. I'm Alex Jones. InfoWars.com and NewsWars.com
are the dreaded enemies of the globalist because we've got their number. Let's go to her part
of her opening statement about thinking she was going to die. This is just unbelievably
bad acting in my opinion. She's a public figure. I'm allowed to say that. I don't believe any
of it. Her whole story is falling apart. She has political games. She's a political operative
and on and on and on. Her witnesses, she says she has, say the opposite. She just keeps
bringing the witnesses forward, which is next level lying. Weeks after they're going, that's
not true. That didn't happen. Well, my friend this, my friend that, that is so crucial.
And the other women, it's all falling apart. That's what's amazing. If they had real witnesses
and this stuff came out, I'd say, I told you get, bear it in there. It's a lot better
on the eyes and she's got a better voting record. Boy, I'll take both. So I'm all about
women. There were patriots in there. I love it. Certainly no glass ceiling in my vision.
I got three daughters, not a virtue second. Oh, I love them, but I'm digressing. Ladies
and gentlemen, the issue here is that this is a travesty. This is a civil war. This is
our country being torn apart. And this is very, very dangerous to get rid of innocent
until proven guilty. And then have the Democrats selectively enforced this and it being led
by famous predators against women, Hillary Rodham Clinton and William Jefferson Clinton.
But let's go ahead and just start getting to her. I just, at a Pavlovian level, I have
a visceral bad response to her, just like Hillary. So I've trouble looking at her, but I'm going
to look down. You don't look the gorgon directly in the eyes. So here is Ford in her opening
statement. There was music playing in the bedroom. It was turned up louder by either
Brett or Mark once we were in the room. I was pushed onto the bed and Brett got on
top of me. He began running his hands over my body and grinding into me. I yelled, hoping
that someone downstairs might hear me. And I tried to get away from him, but his weight
was heavy. Brett groped me and tried to take off my clothes. He had a hard time because
he was very inebriated. And because I was wearing a one-piece bathing suit underneath
my clothing. I believed he was going to rape me. I tried to yell for help. When I did,
Brett put his hand over my mouth to stop me from yelling. This is what terrified me the
most and has had the most lasting impact on my life. It was hard for me to breathe. And
I thought that Brett was accidentally going to kill me.
There's this other clip we'll try to find. I saw it live this morning where she goes,
I saw the doors at Google and they were misshaped. And then I remembered and I'm like, is this
through the looking glass? Like MK Ultra Mind Control or something? I mean, this is, some
of this stuff is so weird. We'll get David Knight's take on this. But let's play now
this other bizarre clip about Google interns living at her house and PTSD. I mean, there's
just hours of this. Here it is.
Can you tell us what impact the events had on you?
Well, I think that the sequelae of sexual assault varies by person. So for me personally,
anxiety, phobia and PTSD like symptoms are the types of things that I've been coping
with. So more specifically, claustrophobia, panic, and that type of thing.
Is that the reason for the second door front door is claustrophobia?
Correct. It doesn't, our house does not look aesthetically pleasing from the curb.
I see. And do you have that second front door?
Yes. And it now is a place to host Google interns because we live near Google. So we
get to, and other students can look.
Can you tell us, is there any other way this has affected your life?
The primary impact was in the initial four years after the event. I struggled academically.
I struggled very much in Chapel Hill and in college.
And she's sitting there with the deep state top lawyer for McCabe and Comey and all of
them. I mean, I just can't, they're just relishing. And when she talks to women are all looking
at her and shaking their heads like, Oh, you poor baby. Oh my God, you've been through
so much and they're just relishing this. And then she sycophantically smiles and like looks
up and it finds time. Like, am I pleasing you?
And it's just all this victimology. That's what everyone is into. This is how you destroy
a country right here. Meanwhile, China executes you if you're gay. Or if you bitch and complain,
they kill you. There's no welfare. You do what you're told. Daycare is chaining your
kids up a power pole for most people. That's what we're competing against. And this is
the psychological warfare we've got. We're at birth now. They're going to take your
kids away if you don't start putting them on drugs to change their quote sex.
So David, this is just unspeakably bizarre. I mean, I think really bizarre is the, the,
the, the, the special stench of this is just how bizarre and weird and twisted it is. And
then if we just keep going down this road, if they are able to destroy Kavanaugh in
this fashion, it sets a precedent to open Pandora's box wide open. What do you think
will happen if they don't confirm him?
Well, you know, Alex, I think that they learned their lesson. They learned a lesson anyway
from the Clarence Thomas and Edith Hill situation. I think they realized that if they've got
a, he said, she said situation, they're not going to win. And so what we saw with both
Roy Moore and with this Brett Kavanaugh situation, you have somebody come forward as he said,
she said situation, and then they bring up this swarm of incredulous allegations from
other people to try to give that credibility says they don't have any evidence for that
to try to move forward their political agenda. So that's one aspect of it. You talked about
the Soros lawyer and there is an interesting lawyer connection between Avenatti's accuser
Julie Swetnick and Christine Ford. And that is Deborah Katz. You know, when I cover this
every time I bring it in, I come in with Tom Jones is what's new pussy cats? Well, these
people, they wear, she wears the pussy hat in the Women's March and I think, but she's
also got Deborah Katz and these people are the the cats women here. Just like Gloria
Alred, she's an ambulance chaser with the Me Too stuff, but she represented her 10 years
ago in a sexual harassment lawsuit for the Wall Street Journal. She represented the
Avenatti's person and she is the lawyer for Christine Ford and in addition to the Soros
law. It's a gaggle of new status and the same lawyer Katz covered up for Hillary, covered
up for Bill, all of this. I mean, these people are just a pack of slime balls and they're
all really ugly too. You ever noticed that?
Let's talk tough. Let's talk comfort. Let's talk about down home value made in the USA
blue jeans like you wore as a kid. Remember, there's a place down in Tennessee where they
make blue diamond gusset jeans. They so pride in every stitch guarantee you love the way
they fit. Put a diamond gusset in the crotch where you need it most. Blue diamond gussets
got it, other stone. We're good old fashioned comfort. Get diamond gusset jeans. Every stitch
guaranteed and our Defender motorcycle gene comes Kevlar reinforced. See them at GUSSET.com.
Or call 888-848-7738. That's 888-848-7738. Diamond gusset jeans got it, others don't.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients. Ultimate bone broth. Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a power
house Bolly Bop formula to help push you to your limits. This incredible formula will
help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone
broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet. Built with more than seven
different super foods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your
healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against
free radicals. This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients
such as turmeric, chaga, mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder
to support your body. It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get
a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. Info Wars
is proud to sell incredible filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet,
shower and sink in your home. That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water
for your whole house with one system. The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System
is an advanced four stage compact filtration system that will provide water filtration
for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy
to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water
supply and away from you and your family. With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction,
you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfoWarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're
looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro
Pure Whole House Filtration System today. It's really hard to have the energy at the
end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or heck
even take your dog for a walk. Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day but thanks to SupermailVitality at InfoWarsStore.com
I still have that energy. There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long
day to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water, to fight back against
the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the
stamina and endurance, energy and drive, to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise
that you need for your health. So go to InfoWarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality. So I want you to experience SupermailVitality
before it's too late. Unleash the Supermail in you. SupermailVitality.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You've found it, the tip of the spear. It is the Alex Jones Show.
If you're watching us on television, I was given a gift by some patriots in Florida.
It's a Spartan copy of a famous sculpture dug up in Greece from the days of 300.
And that's what this really comes down to, ladies and gentlemen, is we have to stand
against the globalists in their lives. This is an information war. This is important as
any other war we've ever fought in this country. And those of us that just get to fight the
information war are a lot more blessed than people who had to charge up hills like what
you saw in Iwo Jima. David and I tried to shotgun with me doing a great job. I intend
to open the phones up here in the next segment. She's coming back to testify more. Kavanaugh
is coming up later. We'll obviously cover it live, gavel to gavel when he speaks with
his statement. You learn about credibility watching and listening to people. You also
learn about histories with people. And the fact is, if somebody was a hellraiser, you'd
hear about it and there'd be witnesses to it. And the truth is, everybody says this
guy was a complete nerd and a virgin until the word is until he got out of college.
And then that becomes a little embarrassing for him. I don't think it's embarrassing. I
wish that I would not have gotten dropped in the middle of extreme promiscuity. I never
forced sex on anybody. In fact, I, contrary to that, women would call it sexual assaults
today. The things women have done to me, jump on top of you, grab you, throw you on the
bed. I mean, I think that's when a guy thinks he's got lucky. I mean, when a woman wants
you, she jumps on top of you. Everybody knows that. That's what Trump was talking about when
women would jump on. I mean, just do whatever you want. It's crazy. They just jump on you.
It's like Elvis Presley. But with Kavanaugh, that's not what's going on here. Okay. And
you know, my son is athletic and a bookworm and stuff, but you know, he is very conservative
and I'm actually proud of that. And I'm not like, Hey, get out there and date a bunch
of girls because I know how painful it can be. You know, relationships are serious, serious
things. So I think it's good to shelter our children, especially in this day and age,
because things are just out of control. Now we do have a bunch of clips of the cross
examination by the Rachel Mitchell, former prosecutor, current prosecutor of sex crimes
who does literally annihilate her. Ford, we're going to get to that, but I've got some really
serious news. Here's what's happening. David Knight had at libertarian when Twitter first
started and he had a huge following of hundreds and hundreds of thousands on Twitter. David,
obviously on iTunes had, depending on which iTunes subscription you looked at, we had
like 19 million subscribers and he had close to 10 million. What was really important was
he had a higher opening rate and listening rate than I did. Now did I get upset by that?
Now I'm like, thank God, you know, this is wonderful. We're going to save the country.
We deleted everybody that wanted to subscribe to him. A very gentlemanly guy, almost the
opposite style of me, and that's good. We compliment each other. Think about that, that when they
purged, they purged hundreds of other channels that just had Alex Jones in the name. There
was a war, over 20 apps that were in full wars for Alex Jones that fans had made over
the years. Some had millions of downloads that were free. They got rid of those. It's
like taking Winnie the Pooh out of computers in China where you can't say Pooh, you can't
send the image Pooh, you can't send a Taiwanese flag in China. Apple suddenly started doing
that worldwide a few months ago. This is the annihilation of language and you can only do
it with these omnipresent computer systems that are waging war on language itself. And
so you see the end of innocent until proven guilty here where they say Alex Jones is banned
because he was mean to transgenders and he bullied a child. I showed an ABC News clip
of a kid punching an adult four times. He pushes the kid down. They said on the news,
I did that. I was banned for something I didn't do. And notice they'll never say what it was,
but we know what the video was. It was the guy pushing the kid down because that's what
banned us. Now the latest thing is we go look, they're starting in Europe to drug children
in age three to change their sexuality saying the child chose it. No, a cult of evil manipulated
them into it. So David got the word and got the letter that he's been given a seven day
suspension for saying cranny because Twitter had a vote in 2017 decided that word is now
hateful and they can just change it to whatever name they want the next day. Show. We have
a major fan account and they contact us and the fans, you know, let us use the Twitter
when we want. We're so busy and the accounts not that big. We don't really use it very
much, but we have access to it. So they said, Hey, look, almost all of our accounts,
including David Knights, and that's his own account. He had many years for even worked
at info wars. They've all been either banned or given seven day suspensions, but what six
accounts in the last 24 hours. And I've got the article and the documents right here.
Document cam shot, please. This is from Twitter. And this is info wars news at prison
planet TV couple hundred thousand subscribers. We've temporarily limited some of your account
features. What happened? Violating our rules against hateful conduct. And that's any definition
subjectively they want. You may not promote violence against threatened or harass other
people on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, sexual orientation, gender, gender
identity, religious affiliation, age, disability, or serious disease. Now, this is the
offending tweet. Now get ready for this. If you're ready, a listener TV viewers already
have your mouth saying open. This is what the fans sent out that was a copy of one of
our official Twitter pages. Alex Jones opens the phone lines to answer the question. Will
President Trump stand up to the Obama administration holdovers mutiny and end the deep states reign
of terror over the United States? Obama's a public figure. Obama did put stay behind
groups that say they want to kill the president. This is true. There's nothing about Obama
being part African. There's nothing about any of that. We are saying in the tweet. Will
Trump take action? And this is the thing they get mad about. When I called for Trump to
take action, they gave me a seven day suspension before they totally banned me saying I called
for battle rifles to assault people. Never said it on there. They just lied. But I was
calling for Trump to take action. Well, don't worry. You guys elevated us even more now
to out whatever I wanted to the president just absolutely within hours goes to him.
So if you were trying to keep from having hearings about Google, working with China to round
up people or Apple, it's all over the place. You got grilled yesterday, Google by Ted Cruz.
It's the beginning of the end. Okay. So guess what? I politically already suicide bombs
your butt. No, no, Joseph running a suicide bomb. No, it's a metaphor that yeah, you blown
me up to a certain extent. I blew you up politically. But read this and this is next level. Total
truth. And when I said we are in a rain of terror of racism and sexism and demoralizing
people and brainwashing our kids and just all this horrible stuff they rain down on
us. And I'm saying how long will this rain of terror go on? It's well written. It's
eloquent. It's the truth. It's a headline that I wrote that day for the website that
somebody else copied and tweeted out and they said this is not allowed. We say this is
terrible. This is pure Americana. Meanwhile, World Star Hip Hop, where they celebrate
knockout games and killing white people beyond any, imagine a KKK site where it's white
people killing black people. It's horrible issue. And look, they have their free speech.
People killing folks are getting arrested, but it's snuff films. Live leak, World Star
Hip Hop, PayPal all work together. It's all great. It's all wonderful. The Antifa site
saying kill Ted Cruz, kill his family, kill the restaurant owners, kill Mike Pence. It's
all up. It's operating. They've got PayPal to sell their Antifa shirts, but not me.
They made the moral decision that I'm banned. Think about that. It's a calamity brain article.
And the real headline should be PayPal works with snuff film site, World Star Hip Hop.
I mean, you go to World Star Hip Hop folks. There's hundreds of videos of old white homeless
people having their brains beaten out and pools of blood being shot, being stabbed, being
punched, falling over, dying. And then other videos, horrible racist black people and their
white acolytes celebrating it. So we're going to come back and talk about this with David
Knight and then get to the prosecutor asking her a few real questions, but not pointing
out, not going back and pointing out, well, hey, why are you changing your story? But
that's coming up. But there you go. Snuff film site, World Star Hip Hop has PayPal, but not
me. Again, this is the slander, the defamation. I'm a racist for sharing Obama is trying to
overthrow Trump. That's now racist and we've been blocked by Twitter.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotrue Selenium's
formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones, which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid
hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
If you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why
we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us and if you spread the
word about our articles and videos, infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against
these brutal scumbags, we'll win. We have huge sales at infowarsstore.com right now,
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite
trying to block our commerce and your right to the market. But if you don't stand up and
support us financially, Soros the Globe will spring win. This is infowars darkest hour,
with your support, I'm counting on you.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative,
infowarslife has the formula for you. Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes
advantages of the EPA, DHA and omega-3s found in our high quality ultra-pure krill oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants, such as Azazanthin and omega-3s, Ultimate Krill Oil
can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to
maintain cognitive function and more. And while other krill oil formulas may chemically
modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains
unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil, or you separately, it's time to see what krill oil
can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil, now available at infowarsstore.com.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens. Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely
low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3. The research
and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world. Read the facts at infowarslife.com
about Winter Sun Vitamin D3. Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin
D supports our memory and brain function, something the globalists are targeting. Visit
infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
