He aligns himself with the truth, and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
It's Sunday, the 30th day of September 2018.
We're now only a few weeks out from the 2000s and 18 historic midterm elections.
Again, I'm your host Alex Jones.
The censored news sites are infowars.com, newswars.com, and prisonplanet.com.
But it's easier to share the links from newswars.com.
It is not as blackballed as infowars.com, the vaunted infowars.com.
I wanted to reflect some today on all the good things that have happened,
but also look at how bad it's going to be if the globalists are able to stop the populist offensive
that has organically sprung up out of humanity's will to be free.
And I noticed that Kanye West last week gave a speech where he said,
Alex Jones and Donald Trump are great guys for humanity, and they are the matrix breakers.
We need more matrix breakers like them.
That got picked up in hundreds of publications.
It didn't get retracted.
It got pulled out of the original publication.
Now, I'm not going to get into any inside baseball, but let's just say I know that Kanye said that.
And I think the establishment is going to really bemoan the fact that they did that to him.
Got a very interesting phone call last night, and I'll leave it at that.
And I'll tell you what else they're going to bemoan.
They're going to bemoan trying to bully him backstage and the heads of NBC telling him,
the heads of Saturday Night Live, you are not going to wear that Make America Great Again hat.
By the way, he was wearing a Kaepernick shirt and a Make America Great Again hat
when he gave the speech last Thursday, trying to point out people have a right to free speech, period.
And that it's insane to hate each other like this.
So he's really trying to use his stardom for something very, very positive.
And I respect people who put their name, their treasure, their honor on the line.
I really respect Kanye West.
And you're going to see the media and the system come after him like nothing you've ever seen.
Kim Kardashian reportedly filed for divorce on him.
But just a few months ago, she was in the White House in a deal that Trump got set up to release black folks in America
who were given sentences on average three times longer than whites for the same crime.
We have the same type of records.
First time offenders given three times as long as whites.
That's clear racism.
And you can look at the actuary numbers and see it.
It's a great idea to stop that.
That's real prison reform.
Trump, of course, got no credit for that.
So Kim was starting to get in line with her husband in a good way.
She's decided to get in line with the establishment.
And that's her issue as well.
Or at least it appears to be if you believe the news.
Hell, it's all the news saying she's divorcing him.
Maybe it's not true.
They lie so much.
That was a great thing she was doing going up there and exposing all that.
But who knows the truth?
You got to hear it directly from people's own mouths.
And it can't be jump cuts and it can't be audio.
You got to see it coming out of their mouths because so often it's twisted.
And what somebody says in reality is the complete opposite of what ends up coming out.
So the president came out and praised Sonye for his courage and the fact that he got bullied but stood up to it and still wore the hat.
That video and all the other little trimmings are coming up at the start of the next segment.
But this is about being matrix breakers and Kanye gets that.
I'm not trying to keep the system going.
I'm not trying to get along with it.
I'm not trying to win in this paradigm.
I'm trying to have a pro-human paradigm, a real renaissance that is literally hundreds of times better than anything we've ever seen.
And if we shoot for that, we've proven we can have it.
But if we let the establishment turn us against each other and demonize people that are really trying to promote society, we're going to lose everything.
So remember, we are the most censored broadcast in the world.
Yes, infowars.com and actual radio and TV stations have all reported increased traffic and ratings have exploded.
But they are trying to block us in viral spread on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, you name it.
So you've got to go to infowars.com and grab the live show feed that deals with the Democrats announcing kill teams.
We've got a prominent matrix breakers homes and members of Congress and kill you.
We'll be right back.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
Infowars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at infowars.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Love will spring win.
This is InfoWars Darkest Hour. With your support, I'm counting on you.
Welcome, ladies and gentlemen of this live teleprompter free television slash radio transmission.
This is the most avant-garde tip of the spear real cutting edge.
Band restricted, censored, hated, demonized transmission in the world, ladies and gentlemen.
And I am your host, Alex Joates.
A lot of people say, Alex, you know, you're getting censored, you're getting attacked, you're getting demonized, you're getting lied about, you're getting sued.
The government's trying to take your children away from you.
Why are you so happy?
Why are you fighting so hard?
Because we have a corrupt evil system that's playing people off against each other and literally feeding off that twisted energy.
And I have a fire in my eyes that is only reflection of the fire in my mind and the fire in my soul of love and of passion and of will to see all God's children that Martin Luther King talked about coming together with real dreams of the future
and transcending the manipulation that the globalists and social engineers use upon us and the evil things they're doing.
The admissions in their own documents, their own WikiLeaks of how they want to have race war in this country and all this crap.
And it doesn't mean I'm perfect, you're perfect, but we want a better future.
And we're tired of people opening up all these wounds, trying to make us victims instead of overcomers.
And so it's the fire in my eyes that keeps you alive.
It's the fire in your eyes that keeps me alive.
That's why I played that song coming in right now, because it illustrates it all.
The fire in your eyes keeps me alive.
Yeah, nice boats and big houses are great.
And a car that fires right up when you need it too is wonderful.
And having money in the bank to take care of your child when they're sixth grade.
I've been putting it at times when I was younger, I didn't have money to pay the rent.
But selling your soul for that stuff, the establishment doesn't fulfill you.
It's all just gravy.
But standing up for what's right, standing up against tyrants, standing up being independent and a free thinker, that is food to me.
That is fulfilling.
You know, I got a call at 8am on Saturday morning.
Owen had been texting me at like midnight.
I'd already been asleep.
Owen Schroyer, one of our great reporters and anchors.
So he's texting me at 8am.
How are you going to go?
I'm going to go. You should really go.
And he sends me an Austin American statesman article.
I'll get to it later.
And it's got the headline, The Rhetoric of Alex Jones and Donald Trump and How Fake News Went Too Far.
And then you read the article.
It's like, we've got to stop them and censor them and block them.
And they're evil liars and they're bad people.
Now, there's the article for watching on TV.
So I already got out of the shower drinking coffee when I saw that.
I told my wife, sorry, baby, I'm not taking you to brunch.
I kissed the baby, jumped the car, drove downtown, got there right when it started at 9am.
They got the city streets blocked, big stage set up, only about a hundred fascists that call themselves liberals sitting there.
And they're talking trash about how to take me off Twitter when I walk up and how dangerous I am and how I've got to be stopped.
I mean, these people got a lot of nerve, man.
The only publications that were leftist that picked it up said,
Jones crashes some innocent Democrat meeting and censors them.
They're having a meeting about censoring me.
I show up getting their face for 10 minutes and then they spit it that I'm censoring them.
You got to love these people, man.
They're not creative.
All they do is invert, invert.
They're not creating businesses like Donald Trump.
They're not creating all these number one albums like Kanye West.
They're not building their own radio or TV networks and being a maverick and launching a movement against globalism.
All they do.
All they do is run around and lie.
Now, I'm going to get to a clip right now of Kanye West.
Matrix Breaker.
I love that term he coined par excellence.
Goes to NBC, goes to Saturday Night Live and they're bullying backstage so you cannot wear that hat.
He still does it.
And there's his entourage all looking.
Some of them looking embarrassed.
A few of his best guys are looking proud.
But there's the entourage looking kind of down.
Like what's he doing?
It's like Moses saying, let's get out of Egypt 3,000 years ago or whatever.
And they're looking at him like he's the bad guy.
He's saying, you know, Donald Trump's not what he says.
We need love.
We agree on love.
And I noticed I couldn't hear bullying in any of the videos.
I think I hear like one little one.
I hear some yeas.
Love.
So clearly actually people are agreeing with him.
But even if they didn't, he's not going out on a limb because in his own heart and mind, he knows what's right.
He's known Trump for a long time.
And he's seen the results of Trump being in office.
Some of the best jobs in 100 years.
The best for black Americans ever.
Things are turning around.
It's no utopia, but it's a lot better already in less than two years.
So it's even a lie.
The headlines everywhere.
I saw the headlines everywhere last night.
Oh, he got booed.
Oh, I was like funny.
I was watching it.
I never watched NBC, but since he was on, I tuned in.
I was like, were they watching the same thing?
So I went and watched videos this morning, different angles.
You can barely hear like one boo somewhere there.
This turns into, oh, everybody hates him.
Yeah, that's why he's one of the biggest people they can have there on the stage.
So again, here's this winner and this trailblazer, something we should respect in America.
Standing up for the president and the media spins and that everybody boot him,
which is what they do.
They lie.
They're having an event lying about me saying I'm this horrible person.
I show up and say, you're full of crap and I leave and they spit it.
And I took it over and I'm this bad guy and I deserve, you know, to be shut down.
See, they're having a meeting in public about censoring you as conservatives.
Stop with Trump.
We'll stop with Alex Jones because they've lost the culture war because people know their liars.
The full video is up on info wars.com.
But here is Kanye West being bullied and talking about being bullied,
but still standing up against it and going out there on stage.
Here it is.
Trouble, Trouble, Trouble.
You see, they're laughing at me.
You heard them scream at me.
They bully me.
They bullied me backstage.
They said, don't go out there with that hat on.
They bullied me backstage.
They bullied me.
And then they say, I'm in a sunken place.
You want to see the sunken place?
Okay.
I'm going to listen to y'all now.
Almost with my Superman kickball.
Because this means you can't tell me what to do.
Follow your heart and stop following your mind.
That's how we're controlled.
That's how we're programmed.
If you want the world to move forward, try love.
Thank y'all for giving me this platform.
I know some of y'all don't agree,
which I'll be going at that man, Ned Kamau.
And I don't think it's actually that helpful.
I think the universe has balance.
90% of news are liberal.
80% of TV, LA, New York writers, rappers, musicians.
So it's easy to make it seem like it's so, so, so one side.
And I felt kind of free.
I thought this country said I couldn't be a man.
I love me too.
And I love you too.
So bring the band back.
Bring the band back.
Did you feel that?
I understand that.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
I feel better.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Bring it on.
Now, it goes on.
There's a couple of performances.
Now, you go to a major search engine that's deceptive like Google and type in Kanye West.
And all you'll see is that he got booed.
You can't even hear a boo there.
I wouldn't watch all the other video.
It's not there.
Maybe one boo during the cheers.
The cheers are overwhelming.
Lies.
But it doesn't matter.
He's trailblazing.
He's winning.
That's why they went into all the articles where he quoted Alex Jones and Donald Trump
as makers breakers and why they deleted his quotes out of hundreds of newspapers.
That's a unified organized fraud to deceive you.
This is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years.
But the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3
product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing.
And Survival Still X2 is the pure iodine.
No one else has this from deep earth crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get.
It's the good halogen.
But instead, they hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that
literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Myotrysilinium goes with it like a horse of carriage.
Silinium is an electrochemical.
It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together.
We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself.
Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff.
Filter your water.
Yeah, I find myself selling water filters.
Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run, I think it'll be six months a year until we get more.
I hope we get more.
This is the last run.
This is the last run.
Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need
in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with
a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
with InfowarsStore.com.
To fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive to get to the gym, get to the park
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Discover trends and global developments years before they...
You can run on for a long time, run on for a long time.
Ladies and gentlemen, on this live Sunday evening transmission,
a lot of listeners who are just totally politically focused are going to say,
Why are you focusing on Kanye West?
Because he's arguably the number one musician in the world.
He's definitely the top two or three.
He is supporting, making America great again.
He's going against the grain.
He's a trailblazer saying no to the bullies that are trying to suppress all of our speech.
And he came out last week and said, Alex Jones and Donald Trump are matrix breakers.
Well, let me tell you, the matrix is modern entertainment and that holds combat.
So he's really the matrix breaker.
I've kind of come from the outside.
So I have a lot of admiration, but here's the key.
He came out and gave a speech and there was video, text of it all,
and they pulled it down off the web saying Alex Jones and Donald Trump are matrix breakers.
They got picked up in hundreds of publications.
Here it is from Spin.
The fader deletes Trump, Alex Jones quotes from report on Kanye's official visit.
They just removed it two days after it was in hundreds of publications.
They didn't deny it.
They just removed it.
So think about that.
Why are they doing that?
Because they're afraid of Kanye West.
It got worse.
Last night he goes on SNL. They didn't air most of it.
The actual raw videos shot that fans were there videotaping on their phones,
shows him being cheered and supported.
But then when it aired on SNL one piece, you can hear a few boos.
Did they dub those in?
This needs to be investigated because we've got the unair clips of the parts that didn't air.
The aired part.
And when we're done being live today, I'm going to put all the pieces on the end of this report.
Once we're not live, we're going to tag it on the live report so you can make your own decision.
But let me tell you, we know they took his quotes out of a whole bunch of newspapers and took the video down.
The video that day.
And a couple days later, all the articles.
Here it is from Spin.com.
Here deletes Trump, Alex Jones quotes from report on Kanye West official visit.
Unprecedented.
Media deletes Kanye West quote about Alex Jones Trump being matrix breakers.
You talk about matrix breaking, ladies and gentlemen.
He goes and speaks.
At a pre-record release in front of the media, he goes in hundreds of publications and they delete it.
Who gave the order for all these different publications, not just the original one to have it removed?
Kanye defense, Alex Jones, Donald Trump.
Here's the original spin article.
And now it's been removed.
And it was removed from a bunch of other publications.
They didn't file retractions.
They didn't say it wasn't true.
They just disappeared it working in unison.
And when they banned me off of Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, all these other platforms, Spotify,
every day when they would ban me on something new, it would be released the same minute by hundreds of publications.
And it'd be the same article just a little bit different with a different name on it.
Showing centralized groups are writing PR statements, releasing it, and the whole corporate media works in unison.
Donald just left his media. That is controlled corporate media working in total and complete unison.
And that is incredibly dangerous.
So I know they deleted all this.
That's a scandal.
What about what happened to Saturday Night Live where he said he was bullied behind the stage?
It's critical that people research this, the full videos of what folks there shot that they hope you don't see is out.
Instead, they just took one of the top stars they could have and didn't air almost any of it.
Even though they claim it's live, that's a lie too.
Most of it in live because he didn't play ball.
He wasn't a good house slave.
And I don't use that analogy because he's an African American.
I use it because I'm not their slave.
You're not their slave.
The globalists see us as slaves.
And when you bow down and talk and act and say and do the things they want, you become a corporate slave.
And you look at communist China, ladies and gentlemen, and all the oppression they're engaged in against the American people.
And you see how they're engaged in domestic propaganda and buying up Hollywood, trying to control what can be said and what can be done.
And the poor Chinese people, they are a billion, 400 million slaves.
They've killed over 70 million little girls who the parents didn't abort when they were in the womb with an ultrasound.
They come grab the little girls after they're born in many cases and kill them.
Are those Chinese little girls slaves?
You damn right they are.
And globalism is about slavery.
And our great president and his incredible courage just a few days ago came out.
I'm going to play this clip right now.
And the president pointed out that globalism and global governance is a world government system of oppression and that it is slavery.
And that's what world corporate government is where they're above the law.
They pay no taxes.
They have diplomatic immunity.
They can do whatever they want.
And they think you and I have to just roll over to whatever they're doing.
So here is the president.
This got almost no coverage, but Merkel, the stories up on info wars.com, the video, Breitbart, London.
Merkel fights for globalism, warrants Trump against destroying the UN that the Rockefeller set up.
Global governance, close quote, a form of coercion and domination that responsible nations must defend against, Trump said during speech.
That is matrix breaking.
So let me tell you something right now.
I'm very proud to be persecuted by these tyrants because I want to change the world.
I am honored because I know I'm building a better future for myself and my family and your family.
And yeah, a lot of people have an instinct to roll over and be slaves and kiss ass and do all this.
I don't.
And the trailblazers have an instinct to stand up for what's right.
And it's been those people in history that have ignited everything that's allowed us to get to this point.
So I stand on their shoulders and in a hat tip to them and in respect to them.
Whether they be black, white, old, young, where they came from, who they were, the fact that they believed in freedom.
They stood up, whether they're Martin Luther King or Donald John Trump or Kanye West.
We are brothers and sisters together in that epic struggle.
So here is the president throwing down the gauntlet.
We will never surrender America's sovereignty to an unelected, unaccountable, global bureaucracy.
America is governed by Americans.
We reject the ideology of globalism and we embrace the doctrine of patriotism around the world.
Responsible nations must defend against threats to sovereignty, not just from global governments,
but also from other new forms of coercion and domination.
Total truth. You have radical Islam being wound up to take over the West, you have globalism directing it,
you have the Vatican captured by the globalists, you have the Chai comms totally out of control,
murdering their own people en masse five times what Hitler did.
It's incredible.
Now you've got the Chinese threatening to blow up US ships and they go to the South China Sea that China never had any claim to.
They're all the way down in the Philippines now.
So we'll come back with the big news.
Major Antifa groups protected by Twitter are now calling for kill teams to kill conservative leaders,
media leaders and members of Congress. We'll cover it all.
Years ago, Info Wars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms,
there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time
as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development,
this formula uses wild anchovy fish oil,
ultra-purified krill oil and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive and brain health
while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from infowarslife at infowarsstore.com.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year,
and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield at infowarslife.com.
They began studying this effect in published trials,
and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research,
a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase,
which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe.
Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
He aligns himself with the truth, and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Alright, I wanna get to, really, our top stories now.
There's so much to get to of the most critical nature on the China War Front,
and we're already had war with China, but I've been at war with them for a while.
And I know that, but I don't know.
I don't know.
critical nature on the China war front. We've already had war with China, been at war with them
for a while. The globalists settled that up to bring down the U.S. Trump and many of us are
fighting back against that. The latest on Kavanaugh next segment is so much there. At least
832 dead and devastating Indonesian tsunami. We're going to be looking at all of it.
But the first big thing I want to dive into right now is this.
Conservative Senator Supreme Court Justice has warned unhinged left planning kill teams,
home invasions to execute you and your families. That's a critical well-documented
report by Mike Adams up on infowars.com. Now,
I covered all of this throughout the week and by Friday, you hit a crescendo of official
Democrat Party websites, major anti-fascites, you name it saying, particularly if they lose
the midterms or think they are, that they have got people's homes and families targeted.
You saw Congressman Scalise, you've seen all these different judges getting shot,
there's almost no news coverage of it. You have seen all the calls for violence against
talk show host. You've seen conservatives and libertarians out in public being attacked.
In fact, we had urine and feces thrown on us. I'll get to that next segment.
At the Democrat event where they shut down streets downtown, the event was called Sponsored
by Walmart. I'm not joking. If the Walmart's gone over the dark side, at least they probably
got tricked into this. They spent a lot of money on sponsorship. I'm sure the family that owns it
doesn't know. With the headline, the rhetoric of the political rhetoric of Donald Trump and Alex
Jones on fake news, weaponized communications, first reading. They were calling for our speech
to be banned and celebrating that at the event. As we're walking back in the car, we're like,
what the hell just hit us? Something on us. A guy rides by on a bike. She has a bag.
He must have had like rotting urine with feces. It was the most horrible smell I've ever smelled.
They really hit Owen and Kyle, didn't hit me much, but it was nightmarish. That's well known.
That's Antifa specialty. We also have the footage of yours truly storming the event. I say that.
I just walked in and it looked like a mental patient congregation or a reunion. It was people
like hitting me in the face and trying to lick my face and people running up saying,
you like to have sex with kids. It was very demonic. So that's all coming up, ladies and
gentlemen. And then it's people were attacking the camera guy and shoving into him. So you've
got a lot of the camera wildly flying around. So if you have problems with seizures, you might
want to watch the video, but it's on info wars.com in HD. If you want to see that, that's all coming
up. But now let me get into the big news here because this is so important. Well, you know what?
I kind of went ahead and distracted off into that. Once that camera roll around a wild circle,
so I'm going to have to stop at that point. I'm going to hit some other news. I'm going to come
out the next segment. I'm going to hit the number one story because I can't just start one story
that kind of feeds into it and not give it the gravitas it deserves because this is their plan.
And so far they've been escalating everything they're doing so that we don't understand how
serious it is. That's a military tactic. And the average antifa is a devil worshiping method,
but they are the trigger to cause the violent civil war in this country. Millie Weaver was at
Kent State with Gavin Wentz doing an incredible job yesterday when they had an open carry march
because they've been violating second amendment members rights, even talking about the second
amendment on the college. And antifa attack police attacked them on video and through fake
hand grenades at them, through rocks at them, bottles at them in an attempt to get them to shoot
them to again trigger a civil war like they tried to do with the whole situation that Soros funded
at Charlottesville over a year ago. So we're going to be exclusively rolling that footage for you.
Millie Weaver is going to be joining us in the first 30 minutes of the next hour. Then
we've got Roger Stone joining us with some of the most important news he's ever put out
on the inside. Dirty garbage and dirty laundry of Ms. Ford, Dr. Ford, who it turns out is not a
licensed psychologist, like she says, that's being reported. So that just goes to the whole
thing of doctor this, doctor that, of course, according to these mainstream reports, she doesn't
even have the doctorate. She's claiming never completed the in service residency 3000 hours
that you would a stories up on info wars.com from dangerous.com. Record show Dr. Ford is not a
licensed psychologist may have committed perjury. So that's coming up next segment as well.
But I'm going to take some time here to do this. I'm the type of guy that likes to fight
if people are looking for it. I don't like to find people aren't looking for it.
But let's just say once a fight starts, I don't shy away from it. Because it's those points that
things turn on your body. You're going to walk around the woods pitch black at night when there's
not a moon or stars out. Walk around the woods at night for a couple hours. What happens is you
get hired in a kite just off being outside in the woods at night. Your night vision, at least my
night vision is particularly good. It takes about 30 minutes to hit. It's just all of a sudden
like Wow, this is incredible. And it's the same thing with tyranny. We're not looking for the
pressure of the atmosphere is honest, suppressing us. But when it happens, and we fight back against
it, all these primal instincts and intellectual and spiritual instincts start kicking in. And it's
like my God, they think I'm being persecuted. I would stand in line for this a long time.
And to quote Moby, then it fell apart. But it always falls apart. So I'm not going to sit
there in a ditch and be a slave, then it falls apart. I'm going to be charging up the mountain,
whether in victory or whether defeat, I will be daring greatly to quote Teddy Roosevelt.
So that's the final equation. So again, you see it all over the news. They're celebration. Hey,
we took PayPal. We're going to take their right to bank. We're going to shut them down so you
can't buy or sell just like China will have Jones in prison after that. Yay, we'll get him.
It's all these big corporations working in unison in the city of Austin, shutting down streets with
big pavilions and stages. Shut down Alex Jones. Yay. And just just incredible authoritarianism
that that we're exposing. And all these losers that think if they could suppress
what's popular, they themselves would become popular. That's that's not how the universe works.
And you need to support what's good and what's wholesome and what's strong. And then it creates
civilization for you to live in. And the West has been very tolerant to the weak.
But then the weak are then organized by the truly evil to attack the good, try to store on the
citadel. And then things always collapse. But you don't really think many steps ahead. I'm talking
about the average menu of the globalist. So if you want to send a very strong message to them and
get products that you and your family need, now is the time to take action. You should be flooding
in full wars with financial support, which many of you have, but you want t-shirts, you want books,
you want videos, you want in full wars, more long lobby shirts, you want in full wars, Trump 2020
shirts, you want George Washington, French Indian war with a hatchet and a musket shirt, you want
Trump as Hercules or wasn't Hercules, who was the guy, Perseus severing the head of the
Hillary Medusa art typal. We don't mean it for real. You want these limited edition,
high quality shirts. You want to be part of the Americana, part of the history. And this is your
chance in full war store.com, infowarslife.com, you know, supplements and air filtration,
water filtration are our biggest sellers. But I'm telling you, when you get into the t-shirts,
that's how you meet like minded people. That's how you spread the word. That's what's really
exciting. We've got made America, American flags with 4.9 reviews, 4.9 stars. It's all there at
infowarstore.com or infowarslife.com, which probably created a page with our best selling t-shirts.
We've kind of put whatever's oldest up top and then whatever's very best and hottest and bottom.
We're different than most stores or shopping sites, whatever's most powerful you have to
really search hard for. But anyways, whatever it does, it sells right up top. But infowarstore.com,
infowarslife.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine and a bunch of big
specials like 40% off. Brain force is about to end, 40% off. The amazing Secret 12, B12 is almost gone.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here in
Lelani estates. But a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned
about ash and acid rain. Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles and acid rain could lower
the pH of the water to unhealthy levels. To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy
metals, alkalinity and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy
metals and acidity in the rainwater. Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to
optimal levels. As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water. So what
we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply. But more
importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it. I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clear.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to
thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and
with high quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the
best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or AAA2533139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's
who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've sourced
only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's
finest coffee beans. Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural
productions, Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just
what you need in the morning. You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune
support blend, infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com. We're bringing back one of the biggest fan
favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients, Ultimate Bone Broth. Info
Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high
quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet. Built with more than seven
different superfoods and crucial compounds, Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your
healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against
free radicals. This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as
turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your
body. It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the
all-new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide. I am your host, Alex Jones.
This is the most censored, most blocked, most demonized, most attack broadcasts in the world
for a good reason. The globalist fear the people. They fear you having a voice. Now,
this is the biggest news of this Sunday broadcast. It's the biggest news of the last few years
when we talk about the radicalization of the left, we talk about hashtag hunt republicans,
congressmen's police getting killed, the government wanting to kill all 17 members of the
conservative caucus that were there playing baseball. But why is all this happening before
I get to this new breaking news? It's happening because President Trump has come out and said
global governance a form of coercion and domination that responsible nations must defend against
Trump said a few days ago in his UN speech. He is calling out the real global tyranny
and the chai comms that are allied with it. So here's that clip one more time.
We will never surrender America's sovereignty to an unelected, unaccountable, global bureaucracy.
America is governed by Americans. We reject the ideology of globalism
and we embrace the doctrine of patriotism around the world. Responsible nations must defend against
threats to sovereignty, not just from global governments, but also from other new forms
of coercion and domination. So that's why they've been trying to shut us down over the years.
Because we relaunched, you relaunched 1776 that private megabanks are in control and their tax
exempt and above the law and have diplomatic immunity. I knew, I believed in you, that if we
had a real debate about that and looked at the documents, the admissions, that we could force
the debate out in the open. So about three years ago, the EU and the chai comms in Hollywood went,
okay, there is a world government. Okay, we're going to ban Christianity. We're going to ban the
nuclear family. We're going to be megabank offshore paying no taxes, worth trillions. You will be
under communism, just like China. The elite are free market, live in palaces, the public are slaves.
And so it's blown up in their face and now they think shutting me down or shutting Trump down
will get rid of this. Trump rode in on the tsunami and more tsunamis are coming. Here was Trump,
a wave about 100 feet tall, now 150 foot, a 200 foot, a 500 foot. And the more you resist that,
the more the global try to suppress the ocean of awakening. That's like earthquakes under the sea.
Your resistance, the frozen establishment versus the sea of humanity is what drives up the tsunamis.
Your oppression of the ocean of human will, mountains coming up, is what drives the tsunamis
in to destroy you. But you don't understand that. I get you crushing me is the tectonic force arising.
Now, I don't particularly want to be crushed to bring in the next tsunami. But let's say this,
I've already been through quite a bit of pain. You know, the media is like, oh,
Jones is very cryptic. He says in interviews, he's ready to die. He's close to God. I don't want to
die. I'll never commit suicide. But I'm not afraid. Get that. You know, I've had a lot of family
members die in my arms. I've seen it for myself. And, you know, at the end of the day, I just want
to be an honorable good person because it makes my soul feel good. That's what God fearing is.
You're close to God and justice. You feel good. You do bad. You feel bad and empty.
So here's the big story. It's up on info wars.com. And it's absolutely true.
Mike Adams warned conservative senators, Supreme Court justices, Unjin's left planning kill team,
home invasions to execute you and your family. That's his headline. I'd make it even better.
Mike Adams is warning you mainstream leftist Democrat websites that Twitter allows to operate
are openly planning Democrats publicly plan kill teams to kill Republican and conservative
leaders. I mean, that's your real headline. I was Mike's headline. It's great. I'm glad he wrote
the article. I'm just saying it's not him saying it. It's not him warning. They're the ones saying
they're going to do it. It's kind of like a meteorologist tells your hurricanes coming in with
150 mile an hour winds. He's not the one doing it. He's just telling you it's happened. The
article is excellent. It goes into all the different websites and all the groups saying,
well, if we lose this election or it looks like we are, let's send kill teams their houses. Let's
take them out. It is crazy. That's on info wars.com. And you look at all the things they've done and
the doxing, he goes over all of it. This is, they're just the cannon fodder. If people go,
oh, anti-fog, a bunch of methadwamps, you know, the only beat up women and children,
they're the cover. They're the morons. But the larger deep state groups will use to show up
at a few events as decoys like spies like us. That's a comedy. That's how it really works.
They will show up and Senator Rand Paul's calling for an investigation. You name it.
There it is. This came out two days ago. Yesterday, there was an attempt to incite people by
publishing their personal information of senators, including home addresses and their wives, home
numbers, endangering them and their families. They should be investigated as perpetrators
punished. This is too much hatred and violence in these days. So that's what's going on here.
So let's go over the article in this segment into the next. The hysterical deceitful fake news
reporting by the left wing media is driving left wing activists to violence and bloodshed. Never
forget the rifle assault by the deranged leftists that targeted CNN. So as a hero, conservative
U.S. lawmakers on a softball field including representatives Khalees that nearly killed him.
Also, do not forget the violent physical assault on Senator Rand Paul by his unhinged Democrat
neighbor that broke six ribs and punctured his lungs. And the left says too bad he didn't kill
him. We are now learning that left wing domestic terrorism groups are openly discussing kill team
tactics and he links to all of them in the article on Twitter and Facebook discussing methods. And
these are big sites led by major Democrats and major professors discussing methods of carrying
short belt rifles, SRBs, under clothing, blending them with crowds, then popping out of the crowds
to assassinate prominent conservatives such as U.S. senators, Supreme Court justices,
and prominent conservative radio personalities. They list in the articles. All this was first
published by PJ Media. And then it goes on from there. In addition to open discussions of kill
team tactics on social media platforms, we're also seeing the deliberate doxing that's given out
the home address and phone number that happened to me last week of conservative senators by congressional
staffers who appear to be linked to the office of Maxine Waters. Of course it's her. As unhinged
lunatic leftists who has reportedly called for violence against conservatives, Senator Rand Paul
is now calling for an investigation into the doxing. Left wing website editors calling for home
invasions and assaults on conservatives. The editor of Think Progress, a George Searle's
link progressive website recently encouraged left wing activists to stage home invasions
of targeted conservatives. I won't go real well for you. Let me tell you. Mob assaults on U.S.
senators like Ted Cruz, who was mobbed by a group of screaming lunatics at a public restaurant
in D.C. that then death-threaded the staff. It's also difficult to imagine these lunatic
mobs escalating this one more step to the point of attempting to stab or shoot conservative senators
in public. These acts were they to be carried out would no doubt be celebrated by the Huffington
Post, BuzzFeed and other left-wing radical publishers that have all but declared war on America.
Now, when I actually went to the event that was called understanding the rhetoric of Donald
Trump and Alex Jones and ending their corrupt speech, all the rest of it, you know, how to stop
their fake news. When I said America's back, they went, boo, that went, America's good.
That was the trigger. Spontaneously, these are black jobs. We're going to come back and
read the rest of the article. We're getting some of all the meat potatoes on the other side,
but it's on infowars.com right now. I suggest you get it out to everybody. Now, I want to play
this piece when we come back to and then we got Millie Weaver on and we've got Roger Stone on.
We've got so much to break, but just again, if you're listening on local radio or watching on
local TV or watching on infowars.com, you understand the whole apparatus of the globalist,
the corporate media, Soros, the UN, they're openly everywhere obsessed. They have,
they block off streets in Austin with big stages, calling for me to be shut down and celebrating.
I mean, these are sick freaks that think you're asleep. They've beaten you. So the number one
thing they don't want is for you to take the infowars.com website or newswars.com
or to take the live video feed right now and infowars.com for a show or to literally go around
and knock on doors and tell folks soon to Alex Jones, infowars.com for a show. They believe
they broke them. They believe they defeated you. I know the opposite. I know we're going to win.
I know we are winning. Second hour coming up in just two minutes. Whatever you do,
spread those links right now. Take action. Call people. Text it out. Take action.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowars life. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Info Wars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula. The new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using it for a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious,
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day
or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins,
minerals, amino acids and more. Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting,
natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today, available at infowarsstore.com.
All right, coming up next segment, Millie Weaver and her great crew were at the event at Kent State
where they'll anti-fat-attack the police, the peaceful marches you name it, exclusive footage
coming up next segment. But let's, speaking of the devil, get back into the article up on infowars.com
by Mike Adams. Unhinged leftists, funded by the Democratic Party and Soros, planned kill teams,
home invasions to execute conservative libertarian, Christian members of Congress,
Supreme Court families. Continuing, the service issues use of government databases by embedded
deep state socialist communists, which Project Veritas exposed, with their government privileges
to locate the home addresses of their intended conservative targets as long as individuals
to be targeted in their own homes. This has now been openly admitted by these deep state
operatives caught on tape by Project Veritas, where they just admit to doxing everybody just
total criminal activity. Complicity on the part of tech giants such as the systematically banning
conservative voices by deliberately protecting the channels of left-wing terrorist groups like
Antifa, then we expose all how the professors and everybody that are calling for killing police,
killing us, killing the president, they're all protected, pushed by Twitter. The intended targets
of these unhinged radical leftists obviously include conservative U.S. senators and House
representatives, conservative radio personalities, President Donald Trump, conservative authors and
speakers such as Ann Coulter. I have recorded and published a warning to all Americans detailing
the plans of unhinged arranged leftists who continue to be driven to insanity by lying to Sonice
left-wing psychological warfare media, which feeds the frenzy on a daily basis. And again,
what's in the internal WikiLeaks and other documents? They're there to sow the division.
With USA children, the so-called media in America has jumped the chart.
With USA Today now printing columns that essentially declare Brett Cabin on to be a pedophile
who should never be allowed near children, the so-called media, the enemy, the globalist chicom
funded, has jumped the chart, abandoning anything resembling the First Amendment,
role of reporting the news, and now resorting to smear innocent people with encouraging mass
hysteria and violence among left-wing lunatics. Now here's the really big takeaway as we finish this.
The corporate globalist media is deliberately driving Americans into a bloody civil war in
a desperate attempt to destabilize the nation, invoke shooting on the streets, and ultimately call
for the United Nations peacekeeping troops that will depose President Trump under Strong
Cities Initiative, and attempt to disarm the entire U.S. civilian population formally for America,
the people on 100-plus million firearms, and have a Second Amendment right to defend their
nation against foreign invaders, period. Things are collapsing rapidly, and there's a video that
breaks it all down below. Now, you've read about communist Chinese buying a bunch of 50,000-watt
transmitters and 100,000-watt FM transmitters on the Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada,
California border over a hundred stations now. You've heard about them buying up the top 50
universities that are even state-run. That's why Obama let them in to do it. U.S. ambassador to
China running, U.S. ambassador says China running propaganda ads in our own free press.
He gives examples in rust belt areas like Iowa, only because he was formerly the governor there,
but it's all over the country, against Trump, against America. Hell, the Chai comms own Hollywood
now. But he points out how they're running anti-Trump, anti-trade war stuff when they've
already been running a trade war and winning a trade war. Trump's just trying to stop that and
give us some jobs back. And he points out that it's totally illegal and that the Chinese government's
paying for full spreads in newspapers in key battleground states only 30-something days out
from the election and that only Democrats could be directing this. Imagine if the Russians were
actually buying four-page spreads in major newspapers and he just lists what's happening in
Iowa because he's been warned of it. It's everywhere. It's the Chai comms. And that's why they fund all
these bot groups to attack us and say, oh, China has no power. They're doing nothing wrong. Jones
is a traitor. But the president tells you the number one threat. General Mattis tells you the
number one threat. It is the truth and we're shining up for America. Stay with us.
So we've already had incredible success. But if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
m4s.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags. We'll win. We have huge
sales at m4store.com right now. And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff
shipped out to you despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the
market. But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrow's the global Spain win.
This is m4s.com. We're your support. I'm counting on you. We've got it. We've got it.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info
you know. Have you or a loved one been exposed to liberalism and identified as having Trump
derangement syndrome? Liberalism is a disease caused by exposure to leftists. Many people are
silently suffering from the effects of liberalism. Even families of exposure victims are at risk
from secondary exposure. Symptoms may include anxiety, irritability, intolerance of free speech,
pale skin, uncontrollable screaming, violent outbursts, hallucinations, and in extreme cases,
mass hysteria. Spotting early warning signs can prevent this tragedy. There are plenty of options
available to recompense leftist victims and their families. Go to infowars.com, newswars.com,
and get tomorrow's news today. Go to infowarsstore.com and get tomorrow's products today or dial
888-253-3139 for a free info war store consultation. It's never too late to turn your political
affiliation around. We're now only 37 days out from undoubtedly one of the most important
decisions humanity's ever made. The leftists are in full war mode censoring nationalist
conservative capitalist speech everywhere, because they know there has been a complete
political realignment against them because the spirit of humanity has awakened. I'm Alex Jones,
your host. Thank you so much for joining us. We are the most censored demonized attack
lied about broadcast in the world. But thanks to you and radio stations and TV stations across
the country, we are persevering stronger than ever. Now Millie Weaver, I remember six, seven years
ago, she's still a young lady and a mother, and I know her husband, a great guy, Gavin,
but she was out there in LA and that swamp filing just fan reports for us that were so
excellent. And now she's got over 100 million views on her own two YouTube channels alone.
She does great work for infowars.com, traveling the country, and she went to Kent State where they
were trying for a Kent State too yesterday. They were saying, look, we have an open carry here.
You're going to kill us like Kent State before. That was the government, not the people.
And it got really crazy. The video's up on infowars.com. Next segment we're going to air a five minute
excerpt and for radio listeners will obviously narrate it for you. But Millie, we've got this
report up on infowars.com where there's more than 20 links to Antifa, the Democrats saying we're
going to kill Republicans if we don't win. Maybe we'll start killing before. And I saw the Antifa
signs out there that Soros pays for all the same black and white standardized signs like they had
the New York Times, overthrow Trump, overthrow Pence. If a conservative eats in a restaurant,
they then death threat the restaurant itself. They're now Maxine Waters connected to it,
Doxing people out of the House of Representatives and the Senate where they live. I mean,
they are going into war mode exponentially. You were there when to watch them attacking police
and the police response was pretty restrained to it. This is getting crazy. So Millie Weaver,
thanks for joining us. Tell us what you witnessed yesterday. Well, Alex, yesterday at Kent State
University, Caitlin Bennett, who is the Kent gun girl who has the infamous picture of herself
posing with her rifle on campus. She held a campus carry event where she planned to go with a group
of peaceful students that were only choosing to stand for the second amendment. So you had people
from varying backgrounds, ethnicities, political spectrums, just marching for the second amendment
carrying their guns on campus peacefully. She had been in communications with the university to
plan this. This was all planned. She asked the people to carry their guns, you know, not loaded
nothing in the chambers. You know, so essentially this was just to make a statement and a point
about the second amendment and campus carry. And so essentially what happened was leftist
media outlets then decided to post a bunch of slanderous libelous articles about her event
and say lies saying that she was a member of the alt right and essentially that she was going to be
bringing violent groups with her, which was not true at all. So that put a stamp on the event,
which led Antifa and Black Lives Matter and other violent extreme left groups to decide to come and
essentially ambush the march as it tried to make its way onto campus. And that's exactly what happened
here. We literally were walking following this group and then all of a sudden here comes a violent
mob of Antifa and Black Lives Matter that literally came chase them down, screaming, yelling,
shoving, pushing, trying to block the march from going, attacking mostly the police because
the police had to actually form a V shaped barrier around the march. So exactly they had to block
them from being attacked by this violent, angry mob with sticks and all kinds of weapons who came
to chase them down and assault them essentially. And let me tell you this, you can actually find
that on my Twitter account, if you guys put my Twitter account, you'll find I actually posted
a picture of a screenshot. We've got one of these Antifa thugs actually was carrying his own handgun.
He has a holster underneath his armpit and he essentially is carrying a gun himself and he
actually ran up and tried to charge Caitlin Bennett and the police had to stop him and shove him back.
Well, I watched the riveting footage. You called me and said, Hey, we're live. And I tuned in and
my wife's like incredible. We're sitting there in the, in our living room with it on the TV
watching this. And I'm like, and my wife goes, your friends are there. We've hung out and watched.
She goes, you shouldn't let Millie go to this. And I said, baby, I'm not told her to go to this.
She's like, this is, they're like throwing bottles and what it looks like hang grenades that you
guys and they're attacking the police. They got guns on their hips. And then they're saying you
guys are Nazis or that you killed people at Ken State back in the, what was it? Late 60s, early
70s. That was the state police or that was the National Guard pulling the trigger. There's
somebody thought shot at them. You're there exercising your rights and they're literally
calling you all this. It was wild. Yeah. You know, well, I was just there covering the event,
covering both sides, but really what actually was the craziest part here is that we didn't know or
anticipate how bad the Antifa and Black Lives Matter groups were going to come out in massive
numbers. And when the March, the open carry March was meeting in the parking lot from their vantage
point where they were standing, they couldn't see how big this mob of Antifa and Black Lives Matter
were because they were kind of behind a brick wall. So it was hard to really make out the size
of the crowd, how many there were. And really the, what's the big point here is that there's,
there's the picture right here of the guy holding a gun himself, hypocritical Antifa member,
trying to stop people from having a... They call themselves Antifa. They dress like fascists.
They act like fascists. They're anti-free speech. They're funded by Soros and his son,
a literal Nazi collaborator. And then they call us this, they're just idiot thugs. And that's all
they are. But, but, but regardless, we're going to come back from break and play. Five minutes of
this will narrate it for radio listeners. The point is clearly they were sent, this wasn't like
Charlottesville where it was a bunch of leftists dressed up like Nazis. And we know every leader
of that was literally a fed working for Southern Poverty Law Center. That's why they're coming
after me. They're so mad I exposed it. This time it was really an open carry march, a black, white,
Hispanic people together. They got really mad. So I looked at the new Antifa. It's basically
Black Lives Matter guys with a few white guys dressed up in black outfits, screaming Nazi,
Nazi, Nazi. And they're so pissed and it's not working. And America's waking up to them. But I
tell you, this is an incredible train wreck to watch this because 37 days out, 38 days yesterday,
Millie, do you agree they're really trying to have some type of violent confrontation? And if it
would have happened, it was one sided by them, but what have happened, they would have called you
a Nazi. Just like when you were at Charlottesville, they called you one.
You know, exactly. I think that the Antifa and Black Lives Matter groups were actually trying
to provoke violence. They were trying to provoke somebody to open fire or do something hastily
in a moment of fear. And you know, one of the things that happened was they actually threw a
fake grenade into the crowd and it actually hit my cameraman and bounced off of him and flew over
to the side. We don't know what was in it. It was a water balloon that they had to make look like
a grenade with a fake pin on it and it said pull and all this stuff. So luckily the water balloon
didn't burst on us because who knows what would happen. So they're trying to like provocateur you,
Millie. Exactly. They're trying to provocateur you into response with just 30-something days out.
This is the main danger. They're trying to provoke a civil war. We've got to be as wise as serpents
and peaceful as doves that walk care, walk softly and carry a big stick. We'll be back.
You are the InfoWars. And now because of their intensifying censorship it's more important than
ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no
way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name
it. And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to. The bare minimum you can do is
sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter. We are the Renaissance
and we are winning. Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing and
survival still next to is the pure iodine. No one else has this from deep earth crystals between
seven to 12,000 feet. It's very hard for me to get. It's the good halogen. But instead they
hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you,
fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it. Myotry, selenium goes with it like a horse
of carriage. Selenium is an electrochemical. It's needed as well in all activity in the body,
particularly neurons. So these go incredibly well together. We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself. Why do you think they fear me so much? Very simple stuff.
Filter your water. Yeah, I find myself some water filters best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run, I think it'll be six months a year until we get more.
I hope we get more. This is the last run. It looks like survival show next to infowars.com
or infowarslife.com or AAA 2533139.
Infowars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block.
We have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms,
including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experience
less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published
trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast acting, chewable tablet
that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and effective. It is
not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the
activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses
in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets. It's really hard to have the energy at
the end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or
heck even take your dog for a walk. Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and
then hours in front of bright lights every day, but thanks to supermail vitality at infowarstore.com,
I still have that energy. There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight
back against the chemicals in the food and water, to fight back against the modern day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy,
and drive, to get to the gym, get to the park, and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get supermail vitality before it's gone. This is actually our
last run of supermail vitality, so I want you to experience supermail vitality before it's too late.
Unleash the supermail in you. Supermail vitality.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You won't see me, but you'll feel me.
You won't see me.
The West was invaded by Babylon, was invaded by the Islamists, it was invaded by the Huns,
but it never fell. Will it fall now? That's your decision, and if it falls,
as the Left hopes it will, what will you gain but slavery?
Deep within your senses. You know the only hope we've got is launching the new Renaissance.
Unlimited potential, as long as we take that promise in our hands.
All right, Millie Weaver's here doing an amazing job with her crew, Gavin Wentzen,
others out there at Kent State. I want to air a few minutes of the incredible video.
There's hours of it up on infowars.com, at least an hour and a half of it. I want to unfold it there,
but the Left is hysterical. They're insane. Their religion is running our lives.
They thought they were confident Hillary would win, but now they're being reversed
across the world. The President is talking about global government, new world order.
They don't even deny it's real. They're like, but global government, new world order is good.
So it seems to me they're in shambles and haven't realized they've lost.
Now I'm not overconfident. They could really wreck things, but don't they see in the end,
or maybe you disagree, Millie, that there's no way they can win?
Well, I think that what the Left and the Democrats are doing right now is very detrimental for their
party, and it's kind of a blessing and a godsend for conservatives and the Republican Party.
What we saw happen at Kent State really showed how anti-free speech and anti-second amendment,
the Left actually is. You had mobs of angry leftists running and charging at a group of
diverse, politically diverse and ethnically diverse, a group of...
And, Millie, let me say this. Usually they're super cowardly,
running up to a bunch of armed cops that are defending free speech and hitting them,
and the police were very restrained. Finally, we found some anti-fly, I guess,
at Kent State that have some courage, because they were acting like total maniacs.
They were, and the group, the gun rights group, they were all carrying guns as well,
and then they... That's what I mean, you're charging police and people and hitting them
with clubs and bottles on their arms. It's not very smart.
Well, from what I could tell, many of the Antifa that were the agitators that were there,
they didn't look like college students. Many of them looked like they were not members of the
university, whereas most of the people participating in this rally, this march...
But, sure, Millie, your skype's breaking down. We'll come back to you.
My concern is, is they're going to use Antifa as the cover for more serious Iranian teams
that we know are allied with Obama, and this has come out, folks. I'm not kidding.
Muslim Brotherhood teams, Chai Khan teams, Soros teams, Globalist teams. You understand,
Antifa is the cover for violence. They'll be blamed. They're planning something really big.
I think before the election, unless they know we're watching them, the main thing they banned me for
was saying, be prepared for Antifa to attack your house. Well, what happens when Antifa decide to
start holding their gatherings and their protests outside of voting locations to try to prevent
and blockade conservatives from going to the polls? That's what we could see happening next,
and I wouldn't think that it's something they wouldn't try to do in order to try to steal
away the election during the midterms or during any other future elections, because they just
want to use violence and any type of means of intimidation and terrorism to try to get what
they want politically. And even all the while, many of these Antifa were carrying guns themselves,
on themselves, trying to stop this group of students from being able to carry out a pro-second
amendment march. So it just goes to show that this is all political in nature. They essentially had
leftist media outlets demonize Caitlyn's march, saying that it was a bunch of alt-right, bigoted
racists that were attending this when it was absolutely not the case. You had gay students,
you had African-American students, students of all different ethnicities, and different political
varying viewpoints who decided to participate in this march that was just about the Second Amendment.
So many of the Black Lives Matter groups and other groups should have been marching with them,
because they respect the right for the Second Amendment. Many of these groups do. So the irony
here is that, what is it? We have some extremist groups on the left, like Antifa and Black Lives
Matter, that are agit-prop, that want to come out and stoke violence and try to get this group to
try to react violently. And the other half of the people that were out there were misinformed people
who are buying into the lives from leftist mainstream. Exactly, because the media runs,
KKK is coming. But I've seen some of the footage. What did they do? Some of the people that were
brainwashed that weren't like leftist professors dressed up in black outfits, when they saw like
Hispanics and black folks, everybody together, just being pro-American, they get pretty freaked out.
Well, actually, what happened was many of the other, like for example, there was an instance
where I was standing next to one of the girls who was participating in this march. She had her
rifle on her. She was an African-American student at Kent State. And there were other
African-Americans in the Black Lives Matter group that were screaming and yelling and accosting her,
calling her various names, basically saying that she was a traitor. And they were saying that these
people aren't going to have your back. The KKK is not going to have your back. And she's like,
what are you talking about? None of these people I'm with are racist. We are literally just marching
for the second amendment. Everybody's rights, which by the way, the KKK tried to get rid of.
Yeah, exactly. That's these Fox News even have hosts going. You know, the KKK runs the NRA.
The NRA was set up for the KKK. I mean, it's just insane.
The KKK didn't want African-Americans in the South to be able to have firearms because they
wanted to be able to send mobs, literal lynch mobs on African-Americans and paying them and
stop them from voting and bully intimidate them. And one of the things that this African-American
girl said is she said, this feels like a lynch mob, literally people running at them with, you know,
sticks and screaming and yelling and cussing them out and trying to violently attack them.
The police took a beating. You've got to clip these out. You've got a great job. You've got hours
of this. You got to come back on tomorrow. We got to play her and play everybody else because it's
just the footage is so good, folks. And that's why they're trying to ban us and block us because
this is coffin nail satirity and those that want race war. And we're coming together. America gets
it. Trump Republicans had like 12% black support and announced like 35% in major polls. They are
panicking as folks wake up right now. So Millie, we didn't get to all your footage for radio listeners.
It's on info wars.com. It's on prisonplanet.com. It's on news wars.com. They bleeped a bunch of
a great job. We don't have time to air it, but it's on the site right now in sanity. Watch
violent anti-famom attack open carry March at Kent State. Everybody email it Facebook at Twitter.
They hope you just lay down and don't take action or they try to block you. You don't do it, but
you're going to override that. So you're going to do it. God bless you, Millie. We'll talk to you
tomorrow. Thank you, Alex. Well, she just continues to knock everything out of the park. Her and Gavin
went. So she is the amazing Millie Weaver. We really appreciate her. What courage. Now, I'm not
going to have time to get to my footage of it's like 10 minutes where I go in and they're having
an anti Alex Jones event. It's actually called the rhetoric or Donald Trump and Alex Jones and
how to shut them down. And you go there and it was just ridiculous. That's on info wars.com.
I'm I'll play a little bit when we come back. But Roger Stone's got a huge cabin on his. A lot of
really exclusive stuff. And Miss Ford's doctor Ford turns out isn't a doctor in California.
Some stuff on her. We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered
with even better ingredients. Ultimate bone broth info wars life is proud to bring you a
powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits. This incredible formula will help
you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth. One of the most
popular health trends on the planet built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial
compounds. Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles digestion tendons and ligaments
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals. This incredible chicken bone broth
formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root chaga mushroom goji berry powder
bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body. It's time to experience what ultimate
bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today
at infowarstore.com. We all know the importance of fish oils while we are sure to provide them
for ourselves. It's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too. Honor
role is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child built from the ground up to support your
child's development. This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil ultra purified krill oil and wild
salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body. With this fish oil formula you
can support your child's optimal heart joint cognitive and brain health while providing DHA
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts. Built on powerful
ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s this formula is highly refined to eliminate
nearly all heavy metals. If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at infowarstore.com.
The Real Red Pill Plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products that's why we're bringing you a brand new version
of one of the newest fan favorite products the Real Red Pill Plus. The Real Red Pill Plus is an
all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product. It features the same great formula that
supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base the Real Red Pill is going to become one of our fellow Infowars
favorite products. Now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including reDX track and
Ramate leaf extract and more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way. It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has but it's also got the most
in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques based on hundreds
of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions. We've sourced only the best to
provide you with our immune support and wake up America Patriot Blend coffee. Ancient Mayan
knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee
beans. Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need
in the morning. You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina. It's time to take
care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing
your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We are on the march. The empire is on the run. Alex Jones and the GCN radio network.
All right. We always save the most important to last. Will Judge Kavanaugh was not our first choice
but overall he's an honorable guy. He's a little too neocon, a little too establishment. Will he
be confirmed or should they gone with Barrett? Like Lou Dobbs said on Friday when he was on
Dr. Carlson, this is a referendum on due process, referendum on basic things like innocent until
proven guilty and with other little basic things like statute of limitations. I mean,
I never sexually abused a woman in my life but I guarantee you they go back in canvas. Anybody
I ever dated or somebody that claims I dated them, they're gonna be able to say that.
You know, Senator Grassley's calling for a criminal investigation. So Senator Rand Paul and others
of the people that filed fake complaints that the media ran with about him raping women on boats,
beating the living hell out of them, beating up women in Colorado and other people calling up.
Why was Congress taking random switchboard calls? Oh yeah, Kavanaugh raped me last week.
They come in and say, Kavanaugh, did you rape this woman in Tallahassee last week? And they're
like, no, I've been in Tallahassee. Well, show us your credit card records. I mean,
any call comes in, they vet it. He's up like 20 hours a day.
Bugs Bunny just called up for Warner Brothers and said you raped him.
So this is a total miscarriage, a total fraud. And now we've learned she's this big RU486 abortion
pusher. She's tied to all these weird programs within her city youth, inducting them into the
psychiatric system, the jaws of destruction to my view. And you've got her father and
grandfather high level CIA and the brother and these big neocon law firms. And so there's a bunch
to cover here with Roger Stone, the next two segments. And I'm glad he's here. But man,
the deep state is just showing that this is bigger than anything you've ever heard about in
Guatemala or Eastern Europe with the CIA. And it's the left in the CIA, but they don't look like
James Bond. They're like bug-eyed mental patients. But it's bug-eyed mental patients with national
security clearances with armed death squads just running around, foaming at the mouth,
tacking free speech, attacking everything. It's insane. So here's some of the articles.
Grassley refers potential false cabin on accuser to FBI DOJ. The person's withdrawn and said it was
BS. Because the media didn't just go with them raping women and breaking their jaws on boats.
Lindsey Graham vows full-scale probe into Dem's handling of Fort Cabin on allegation.
Rand Paul calls her investigation to who's doxed since District Committee Republicans.
This is all on infowars.com. Daily callers, hero heads, you name it.
Did Maxine Waters office dox DOP senators during Cabin on testimony? Well, according to Wikipedia
that shows where the Internet ID shows it came from. It was the House of Representatives.
It wasn't her. It was one of our other fellow swamp creatures.
Trump intimates Feinstein stuttering.
So ACL breaks its own policy, comes out against Kavanaugh. That's some of what's going on here
and them delaying the vote until Friday now, passed out of the judiciary.
Roger, you've got the doodoo, as they say. Tell us all about it.
Well, Alex, I think what we're seeing here is the dress rehearsal for Donald Trump's impeachment.
Watch very carefully because if you've been following the Kavanaugh hearings,
you can see the future. If the Democrats win the House of Representatives,
they will vote articles of impeachment. And they will trot out hundreds of women.
All those same women that were debunked during the 2016 campaign,
all of those women who can't remember where or when or how Donald Trump assaulted them,
they're just sure that he did. They'll be recycled again.
So Kavanaugh is a beta test to trot out a bunch of fake women, a bunch of Jane Does. This is it.
This is the dress rehearsal for what we are about to see if they win the House.
You can bet on it. And you can see now that truth, corroboration, eyewitnesses, evidence,
none of these things matter. All the witnesses say none of it happened. Does it matter?
Yeah. I mean, the whole innocent until presumed guilty, one of the most bedrock principles of
American jurisprudence is out the window. It's no longer necessary. If you saw that exchange
in the elevator with the spineless Jeff Flake in which a woman says,
you're about to put a rapist on the Supreme Court.
Really, lady? Where's your proof that he's in that rapist? Where's your evidence?
Where are your eyewitnesses? You have nothing. You're all mouthy,
heart beat. And you have no evidence. You're making false accusations,
which is irresponsible and actually-
And you've got Lindsey Graham walking on the hall with like 50 women going,
rapist, murderer. We'll play the audio in a minute. I mean, this is hysteria.
But again, it's a dress rehearsal. This is preparation. If you watch this carefully,
the exact same thing is going to happen immediately after the election,
if the Democrats win the House. They will vote articles of impeachment like that.
Now, unfortunately for them, Herr Mller and his Gestapo have come up empty-handed.
They were hoping to hang this on-
And I always said that when Russiagate fails, they're just going to roll out a wall of women
saying that Donald Trump raped the living daylights at him.
Won't matter if they never set it before, won't matter if there's no witnesses,
they're going to do it. Let's go ahead now and roll that clip you mentioned of Jeff Flake. Here it is.
And to Jeff Flake.
Yes, I understand that you said just last night you felt that the way that the
that the witness was in fact credible.
A statement. On Monday I stood in front of your office with Addie Barkin.
I know the story of my sexual assault. I told it because I recognize in Dr. Ford's story that
she's telling the truth. What you are doing is allowing someone who actually violated a woman
to sit in the Supreme Court. This is not tolerable. You have children in your family.
Think about them. I have two children. I cannot imagine that for the next 50 years
they will have to have someone in the Supreme Court who has been accused of violating a young girl.
What are you doing, sir?
You can see where this is going. I mean, this is unbelievable
where this woman says she was raped. So therefore,
then Kavanaugh 36 years ago did it. There's just this man hating thing is unbelievable.
Now that woman's name is in today's New York Post. The question should be put to her.
Where's your evidence? You just accused a man of sexual assault. Proof, evidence, eyewitness,
something other than your opinion. Look, if you were assaulted lady, I feel badly for you.
That's horrific. But that doesn't mean Brett Kavanaugh assaulted anybody.
This is mass-based hysteria at this point.
By the way, I've been around a lot of men and a lot of women in my life and I know
sex assault goes on. I'm not going to get into details, but I've had some family that's happened to
and it's usually like somebody standing at somebody's house in college and the guy comes
over with a knife and and rapes a woman. It goes on. Those guys should be killed.
That's great. But most women are running their boyfriends and they're kissing their ass all day.
I mean, it's in my experience, it's very rare to see guys. Actually, I've never seen a guy assault
a woman. And if I do, I'll kick their ass. But this whole idea that unless it's radical Islam,
then that's what they do. They literally kill them and then the left won't touch that though,
Roger. Yeah, no, it was a great video last week. I think I saw you. I'm not supposed to be there
on Twitter of a man marrying a woman and then slapping her across the face full force and
all of the guests at the wedding applauding. Yeah, full of the Muslim slaps woman at wedding.
Yeah, extraordinary. But when we come back, Alex, I want to break down each one of these senators
who've been on the attack. Hirono of Hawaii, Cory Booker of New Jersey, their backgrounds.
That's the big breaking news. Yeah, because we got to get into the hypocrisy of these people
and how what's good for Judge Kavanaugh is not good for them. And so what's the headline later?
Democrats defend real sexual assault frame Kavanaugh. I think Democrats ignore their own
criminality assault Kavanaugh. All right, we'll come right back on the other side. And again,
they tell you there's no pedophilia going on even though it's happening everywhere it's covered up.
And they tell you Islam is not abusing any women. But oh my God, like these so called movie stars say
white males are raping women everywhere. They've got all these so called movie stars saying white
men want to rape women. What? It's like saying I want to jump off a cliff. You imagine like
here's my problem. I don't even get it. Like I don't imagine like grabbing a woman and making
him do something. That doesn't sound like something good. Something wants me to jump off a cliff.
Don't forget we got big specials that end today at infowarstore.com and infowarslife.com.
But we'll come back with some Islamic love straight ahead.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive
pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you
fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better
way to power your body. Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent
clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore our incredible enzyme formula that
helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight
toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and
carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your
body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today. We all know that the
outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. Info wars is proud to sell incredible
filters but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The pro pure whole house water filtration system is an advanced four stage compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family with its broad spectrum contaminant
reduction. You'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to
replace your current rundown systems it's time to go big and go home with the pro pure whole house
filtration system today. Info wars life is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine
introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new natural way to alleviate
seasonal distress symptoms including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways eye comfort
and respiratory function. In the 1960s researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain
quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this
effect in published trials and decades later we now have the fruit of this research a fast acting
chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms. Pollen block is natural and
effective it is not an antihistamine. In fact current research has found that it actually acts
by blocking the activity of triptase which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory
responses in the body. Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com
and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets. The scientists at info wars life have
created a powerful formula for inflammatory support and joint support. Discover the power of
ancient medicine with bodies. Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for exuding properties. Our pure turmeric extract
plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility,
mobility, joint function, immune system and so much more. Regular turmeric root from the store
only contains 1 to 5 percent of active ingredients but our turmeric root extract contains over 95
percent of the active ingredients. Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint,
sage, lemon balm and thyme to work synergistically for full body support. Try bodies today at
infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
would you like a ride son waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the info war roger why don't you tell folks about the
molar probe how angry they get when you talk about it on air they're so delusional
i know why they're so scared of this broadcast while they try to put me in prison set me up i
can't get into it yet i mean this is on and then we'll get to the big bomb shells about
the democrats and and and what they're doing in the model to impeach trump because
you know they can bring down cavanaugh clearly this is the new model they've been getting it ready
for a long time yeah there's no question that the special counsel's office monitors the alex jones
show for three hours every weekday monitors the war room keeping track of everything we say
it really annoys them when they figure out that we're one step ahead of them and that's only
because we learned it from legal channels the lawyers that they've abused the lawyers that
they have that they have uh uh yelled at the lawyers that they have verbally assaulted they
tell us everything so we know precisely what they're doing uh but they come up short they have no
evidence of collusion or conspiracy or or coordination with the trump campaign and therefore
the steps are very clear win the house of representatives close down info wars and
shut alex jones up try to lock roger stone up and then drag donald trump's accusers all his female
accusers before the senate to tell their weepy story devoid of evidence or eyewitnesses or
corroboration just raw emotion but we're going to be told over and over again by the new york times
they must be believed because they're women they must be believed you're disrespecting women if
you don't believe the fact that they have no evidence that's the model i hope the president
is listening let's let's get into the different democrats defending the clinton's defending
Weinstein defending uh jeffrey ebbstein defending and all and specific democrat women saying men
shut the hell up what they did in real cover-ups yeah no it's extraordinary let's take for example
senator harono from hawaii when daniel inoway was the senior u.s senator from hawaii decorated
world war two veteran an amputee a man of enormous integrity he was accused of sexual assault by a
hairdresser in hawaii by the name of lenore quack uh then in her 12th term in the hawaii
legislature but angling for the u.s senate was senator harano you know what she said in criticism
of senator inoway absolutely nothing dead silence so hypocrisy thy name is hyrono obviously uh
fraudulent in her in her outrage and then there's oh let's play a clip of her saying men and again
i know what you're saying about inoway very respected none of that was true but they just
say believe a woman or you're horrible nothing against women but my god in politics they're
democratic operatives they're connected to cia like ford and we just believe it when all the
witnesses say they're wrong that is insanity here she is of course that helps says
there are women on that committee but you know what i expect the men in this country and the men
in this committee and many of them believe me because we all signed on to this letter
to uh demand an fdi investigation but really guess who's perpetuating all of these kinds of
actions it's the men in this country and i just want to say to the men in this country to shut up
and step up do the right thing the sexism the racism the just she sounds like a freaking nazi
like men you're all men so you're bad you're all jews so you're bad you're all white you're bad
you're all black you're bad shut up racist shut up you crazy person all men aren't bad all women
aren't bad god almighty what the hell god these people are sick so mazy it's your turn step up
explain why you said nothing about uh linoar clock explain why you said nothing about the charges
that senator dan inouye the sign of the hawaii democratic party sexually assaulted her go
ahead you step up and explain yeah tell us about bill clinton and the freaking pedophile airplanes
or shut up because you've been covering up you actually have been covering up let's give the
other person crap in that clip just to the left of senator harono you see senator jillabrand from
new york chuck schumer's sock puppet she didn't seem to have much trouble endorsing bill clinton
she didn't have much trouble endorsing elliott spitzer she didn't seem to have much trouble
uh endorsing uh uh uh eric schneiderman she was fine with all of those democrats but now
she's a critic of judge cavernal another example of rank hypocrisy and then of course there's
senator dick blumenthal this guy's my favorite he actually reads judge cavernal the codicell from
common law the latin phrase that says if you're caught lying about one thing it can be presumed
that you're lying about everything senator blumenthal you lied about serving in vietnam
you never served in vietnam virtually every time you ran for office in my home state of
connecticut you said you served in in vietnam you besmirched the memory of the men and women
who did serve and give their lives in that conflict you're the one who no one can believe
the fact that you even had the cahones to ask that question giving your background of lying
questioning cavernal's veracity another example of democrat hypocrisy and i agree cavernal should
have said right there all the witnesses say this didn't happen what are you talking about
but he was nice to forward oh my daughter's praying for what do you make a forward and the
beggar hostetler giant connections and the her her father grandfather brother all cia in that
building and now and she's the cia recruiter for college this is really spelling yeah no
and look her deep state connections are obviously she's a shell again where's the evidence where's
the corroboration where's the proof why you have her empty but i mean cavernal is a neurotic bookworm
he isn't out raping women but he also seemed to me in all on it's honesty alex to have no
instinct for the jugular i would have gutted dick blumenthal like a fish right then and there
the guy was leading with his chin beyond belief but for its time you're a newshound you're a
newshound all all the federal judge has to study law and they keep up on it yeah it's gotta be a
pretty boring existence and then there's my all-time favorite cori booker when cori booker was the mayor
of newark he basically took six hundred thousand dollars from a city water authority he voted himself
to award this to his own law firm and then the law firm passed it on to him essentially laundering
it then he told three different stories first he said it was a buyout then he said it was
deferred deferred compensation i forget what his third bs point is a total compromised gangster
well if he were a hispanic republican let's say he'd be in prison right now so this guy yeah
why can maxine waters get tens of millions her husband's bank why are black democrats allowed
to engage in criminal activity mainly swindling black constituents yeah she lives in one of the
poorest most destitute pardon me she represents one of the poorest most destitute districts in the
country she lives in a mansion outside her district her the district she represents is majority hispanic
they can't afford carne asada she and her husband are dining on filet mignon the woman is a disgrace
but she gets away with it because her constant playing of the race card oh you're criticizing
me because i'm black no maxine we're criticizing you because you're crooked we're criticizing you
before you're corrupt your skin color your ethnicity but let me ask you this with polosi
and her and ron and michael more staying in the lead might they're like crypt keepers how good
is this for everybody that hillary and all these people are still the leaders i mean this is absolutely
i think blowing up in their face well the professional democrats i know and i know a lot of them
i'm friendly with a lot of them they just want bill and hillary to leave bill bill clinton's uh
long history as a sexual assaultor and a sexual occurring but it shows they're still in control
they have such a raging you know what for you and i which we're important but not that important
i mean well they are obsessed with shutting us down well and i think much of the federal
investigation into me is the payback for the clinton's war on women and the bush crime family
both available by the way on the info wars dot com store right now if you want the background on
these deep state criminals you can get it at info wars and you can help us fight that's really
any financial support info or store dot com a lot of big specials anything right now in 30 seconds
roger gut level i think cabinal gets confirmed if trump doesn't back down i agree he's the beta
test for the next witch hunt on trump we need to just for due process and for the statute of
limitations confirm cabinal but it all depends just on uh trump coming out and i think defending him
here is the key point and that is between now and the time that the fbi finishes their investigation
at least four or five new women will come forward with baseless charges that they can't
support with any evidence but they'll all get a full media ride to try to whip this into hysteria
to peel off that info of republican votes they need to beat cabinal we need to steal ourselves
against that and we need to call bs on it the instant it happens all right great jobs the shows
back tomorrow 11 a.m. central david night 8 a.m. central warram 3 p.m. central roger stone more
info wars dot com forward slash show spread that link just like our information is game changing
our products are game changing and survival still x2 is the pure iodine no one else has this from
deep earth crystals between 7 to 12 000 feet it's very hard for me to get it's the good halogen
but instead they hammer you with the bad halogens fluoride chlorine bromine it literally fog you
fill all your cells your thyroid you name it bio tree selenium goes with it like a horse of
carriage selenium is an electrochemical it's needed as well in all activity in the body
particularly uh neurons so these go incredibly well together we have a combo of those just
experience it for yourself why do you think they fear me so much very simple stuff filter your water
yeah i find myself some water filters best out there for the price when i say it's the last run
i think it'll be six months a year until we get more i hope we get more this is the last run it
looks like survival short x2 info wars tour dot com or info wars life dot com or triple a 253 3139
info wars life and info wars life dot com is extremely excited to announce our latest release
winter sun a revolutionary type of vitamin d3 winter sun is a premium quality vitamin d3
nutritional supplement it is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as
lichens every batch is analyzed for purity and d3 content it's completely free of toxins and
allergens simply put if you want the best at an extremely low price this is it winter sun is
the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin d3 the research and development took over
two years but the result as verified by independent laboratories is the best vegan vitamin d3 product
in the world read the facts at info wars life dot com about winter sun vitamin d3 not only does vitamin
d3 promote a healthy mood but vitamin d supports our memory and brain function something the globalists
are targeting visit info wars dot com today or call 888-253-3139 you're listening to the alex jones show
