Music
Ladies and gentlemen, I am your host Alex Jones.
We're going to be here live for the next four hours.
That I'm sure will be in for the war room.
That of course is 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. Central.
This is the Info War.
These are the times that try men's souls.
First off, I don't toot my horn for, I don't know, purposes of self-flagellation.
Either way, you take a beating telling the truth.
But it's something I've got to do.
I also don't take credit for the things we've broken here.
Because I want the attention.
We just covered the best research and the best facts we have because it's our duty to do so.
And a lot of times I start the broadcast by saying my head's spinning
because this place is a real war room in Austin, Texas.
We are really doing research. We really have the contacts.
And we're really vetting the information as well.
And sometimes it'll make your head spin.
In fact, the information I've got right now is so powerful that I don't even think I can even do the show right now.
I think I'm going to have to do some rebroadcast for a while and look at this information some more
and then decide what I'm going to do because I've had information overload at this point.
That we've got a pretty good picture of what happened in Vegas and who's behind it and what unfolded here.
But you can know this. The Deep State Democratic Party wing is 100% behind this thing.
And they are just a murdering pack of scum.
I've also reviewed over an hour of footage shot by different people in the first 15 minutes of cell phone footage
where people just have their cameras on or have their go-pros on.
We're already there at the concert and we're in a rendering aid and it's 100% real.
You can see people fading out and dying there in Vegas in Sin City, sacrificed on the altar of globalism while laying.
Now, don't show the footage, guys. Don't even show it blurred.
While laying on piles of garbage and beer cans, it's just the sight.
I'll never get it out of my head.
And I was really thinking about playing it this morning because I knew people were going to say this was crisis actors and fake.
And then I knew they were going to say that I was saying that.
I called Nico at about 8 this morning and I said,
I may play this video because I want people to see the truth and know this really happened.
And I'm not going to let them sit there and then try to say it didn't happen and then pin it on me.
So it indeed did happen. Does that mean they don't stage events?
Does it mean they didn't hire crisis actors for many of these antifa events?
That's been in the news. The groups are hiring online now.
Does it mean sometimes they don't stage shootings?
Remember in Taiwan? It's like 10 years ago.
The president of Taiwan staged a shooting of himself when he was about to get impeached and got grazed by a bullet.
Then the other party made the police go check and it wasn't even a real wound. It had been staged.
So that stuff goes on.
And the headline will be Alex Jones Questions Vegas.
Well, they lied about babies and incubators in Iraq and got us into a huge war that killed over a million Iraqis.
So it's okay to question where I'm going to step as I walk down the street to make sure I'm not stepping in a pothole.
But I have looked at this Vegas situation and I've looked at the footage.
And I've looked at it shot by scores of people more than I should have watched because it hurt my brain and it was real.
People fading out, fading away in piles of garbage with bullet holes in them.
Very, very, very sad, very, very painful.
And just tore my guts out.
And we're going to talk about it all today.
We have the big news of what's behind this and more.
This is, as everybody's noticing right now, the critical juncture of the research documentation.
Just look at Drudge with the top link.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America, it'll come in the name of liberalism.
Get a white male! You're a white man!
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long.
The silent majority is no longer silent.
This is the War Room.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Well, October 1st came and went and with it the biggest massacre using firearms in modern history.
But is it 59 dead now, 500 plus wounded, many others fighting for their lives?
We should pray for the victims.
Pray for the survivors, pray for their families.
But you think about the carnage of 600 people roughly shot, 59 dead.
And you think about the communists in China killing 84 million people according to their own publications.
The CIA says it's 65 million from what they've got.
And they fed the communist army off giant cookpots cooking the people they'd executed including children with families.
That was the preferred meat.
That is declassified. That is an official books published by the Communist Party of China.
Blaming the dictator's wife for it all.
I guess they had a quote reform after that.
Communism killed 94 million 20th century feels need to kill again.
Now that said, so just imagine the magnitude of what happens in countries where people are disarmed.
Congressman Scalise that barely survived the Democratic Party targeting where they intended to pin in the Republican Congressman and that dugout and kill 15 of them so they could force a special election.
That didn't go the way they wanted to in their Democratic Party operation where the New York Times advertised where to go, what to do, they didn't have security.
Well, there was security there and a good guy with a gun stopped the bad guy with a gun.
And Congressman Scalise has come out and said what happened to him fortifies his belief in the Second Amendment because it was the Second Amendment that stopped that piece of garbage.
You got to ban cars because Al Qaeda and ISIS are using them to kill thousands of people a year now.
You're going to not drive your car because it's insensitive because it'll remind somebody.
They're saying the same thing. Get rid of your guns. You should feel like you've done something wrong.
They're foisting this guilt down on all of us and it's a horrible assault and Michelle Obama has come out and said white people are the problem.
Yes, we have video. Hillary said the same thing. They are making their move for race war in America.
It's cold-blooded. It's admitted in the WikiLeaks.
But here, ladies and gentlemen, is the good news.
This is not 1995 where they can carry out an event like Oklahoma City that was a real bomb but was staged by criminal elements of the federal government working with German intelligence
and a major tax-free foundation who's recently been caught with a lot of money overseas.
Yes, the Southern Barbara Law Center was running L.A. in the city where the attack came out of. They weren't infiltrating it. They ran it. They commanded it.
This is not 1995. And I launched this operation in 1995 to counter just such events as false flags and Waco and other events where we were lied to.
And you can see the power of the individual working with other individuals, what we've now done.
But if you go to DrudgeReport.com today, here's the big news.
And I've got more coming probably in the third hour, fourth hour, but I've got to continue to research some areas of the data line, the research line we're going down before I release this information.
We don't just put things out here to be sensational. We put it out because it's the truth.
Justice be done. May the heavens fall.
Look at DrudgeReport.com. Sheriff, did shooter get radicalized?
They're coming out saying they're looking into radicalization. That's because in the hotel room was Antifa and Islamic literature.
And because of our FBI sources, that's being forced out in the open.
What did we tell you on Monday that he was probably on SSRIs or some other type of anti-psychotic?
Today it's confirmed he was.
We're not sure he's the only guy, and that's what's coming up later.
A lot of evidence points towards him being part of a sting operation and being set up just like Tim McVeigh.
They run the same formulas over and over again, but we're going there later.
Right now we have Colonel Schaefer, high-level intelligence,
concurring with the analysis and saying that his experts in the government and experts in psychological warfare believe this guy was an Antifa radical,
had accomplices and had been wound up to carry out this attack for many reasons, but number one, his age, number two, the target.
The motive is the target. The target is the motive.
You also have top forensic psychiatrists used by the federal government who examined many other mass shooters, including what happened with the Scalise shooting.
And he says all the evidence points towards it being a PSYOP run by the liberals, basically the Democratic Party.
That's where all the smart money is, is that this guy was a frontman for a larger submerged operation.
The hotel and complex is owned by super Antifa slash Islamist supporters who are huge donors.
The Southern Providence Law Center and other groups, including the big Muslim affairs group here in the U.S. care,
they would match all the employees' money if they gave to it.
And I'm just saying that that should all be investigated. The insurance, all of it should be looked at.
And the fact that there was cameras in the hallways and he was there five days and had visitors and guns everywhere.
When you check into a hotel, they come and search your things. When you leave, they always do, especially casinos.
Then they come back in when they clean it and they do it.
And if you don't clean it, if you don't put the sign up for a day, they'll still come in. That's protocol.
They violated their default protocol. Where's all the surveillance footage? Where is all the footage?
Well, it turns out we have moles inside the hotel thanks to Laura Loomer and other folks working their Twitter contacts.
We're working our Twitter contacts at Real Alex Jones and of course at Prison Planet with Paul Watson.
So you've got the sheriff saying we're looking at him being radicalized. That's because they've got the evidence.
And the sheriff shakes when he says it because he's so freaked out by the magnitude.
They're being told don't give out more details because of an investigation by the feds.
But that's mid-level feds blocking who really did it because they're deep state plants of Obama, Clinton and the globalist.
And that's admitted that they're rebelling against the president and against the American people's attempt to take the country back.
So imagine if it comes out this guy was anti-slash, Islamically funded, which the evidence now is massively pointing to.
And I'll get to that in a moment.
Imagine what's going to happen if all of that unfolds. Imagine what they're going to do.
So right now they want to set the narrative, even though it's blown up in their face, that it's a white guy and white guys are evil and gun owners are evil.
And so the victims are to blame. That's what they're saying.
CBS executives, top Democrats, Hollywood stars, they're all putting that narrative out.
We've got to take your guns. We've got to take your guns.
But this is the reason why we need the guns to protect ourselves.
So we have Colonel Shaper coming out saying it looks like an anti-fuck Democrat operation.
We've got the top psychiatrist saying it. We've got the sheriff saying it looks like radicalization because they know.
But they're in the middle of an investigation and don't want accomplices to obviously know what they've got.
But you've got to put this out now because it's politically being used to try to wound the country massively.
But if you look at Drudge Report, remember who told you all this on Monday?
Who told you Sunday night before it happened it was coming?
Who told you last Friday with precision it was coming?
Who told you to look for the radicalization?
And who told you on Monday morning from the HRT?
Yeah, folks, that's the kind of sources we've got.
HRT on the ground that the place was full of anti-fuckered as well as Islamist's connections.
And then it came out six hours later that indeed she'd gone to the Philippines and indeed she'd gone to the Middle East.
And indeed there was money being wired around everywhere else.
And now it's all coming out. We'll be right back.
Oh, and there was room service for two, a lot more.
We'll be right back.
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
In the history of InfoWarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, Superman Vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products.
And this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean. That means it's pure.
And rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Now before we sell out.
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvestrite freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvestrite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with a z-shield at infowarslife.com.
Thanks for watching, I hope you enjoyed this video, hope you enjoyed it, and I'll see you on the next one.
We're back live ladies and gentlemen. We have seen one of the biggest massacres in
world history take place. But remember a earthquake in somewhere like Pakistan
can kill 15,000 people. A tsunami in the Pacific Ocean can kill 50,000 people. But
then we just see the report and we move on a week later. With this event and this
attack the leftists, the globalists, the social engineers are going to use those
dear lives of those poor people who were snuffed out to try to wound what's left
of our Republic and complete our journey into disarmament. And that's why we
can't let this tragedy be used to destroy the country. You see the late
night talk show host posing as news reporters, the Colbert's, the Kimmels,
all of them, radicalize the alt-left. Then the alt-left goes out and kills
you. Then their answer is gun control and they try to disarm you. It's really
that simple. But if you just joined us we're gonna go through in the next
segment all the eyewitness reports and more and we're gonna have clips of the
experts going through what the best minds have put together on this. And that's
that you had a bunch of people helping the shooter, if he was indeed the
shooter, that he was not acting alone. That much we know. We have hotel
receipts now that have been posted to infowars.com via Laura Loomer, the
incredible investigative journalist who's in there via Twitter talking to the
hotel employees and she's getting the whole scoop on how their SJWs, how
they're anti-Trump, how they're working with the Southern Poverty Law Center, how
they're doing fundraisers, how they're working with the Arab American groups. I
mean this is official. This is their main push and how this guy was able to do
whatever he wanted with 20-plus guns inside the building, 40-plus total.
Explosives were now learning. Cameras inside the room, outside the room. Oh and
they didn't call hotel security. Every major hotel's got cameras hidden in the
hallways. A lot of casinos they've caught them with bugs in the rooms just to see
what you're doing if they want to tune in and hear. That's come out. I mean they're
the most surveilled place in the world other than say an NSA base. They're more
surveilled than an airport. And this guy waltzes in. And what do we tell you
Monday morning? I'd already gotten the calls Monday morning but then I confirmed
directly with the source. With the hostage rescue team of the FBI. I wouldn't be
surprised if they don't send the FBI over here to try to shake me down and give
up my source, which I'm not gonna do. I'm protecting under the First Amendment.
Despite what Obama tried to pull for eight years in prisoning people, you'll
never get my source. But they know it's real. They know. They know our Secret
Service sources are real. They know our information is real. That's why they hate
us. Because we're a danger to the globalist. We'll report what good sources
give us. We've gotten great info from this particular HRT source two other
times, even though I know the source through other sources to be a good person.
And there's other good people in there because they're the folks that actually do
the killing, that actually do the rescuing, that actually do the work.
They're not the little pinhead, pencil-pushing SJWs up above them. And they
said they went in there and that guy was shooting at them and they shot him dead.
That he didn't kill himself and that he'd wounded two cops. That later came out in
the news. You heard it here first. He'd shot the cops going in first. Both of them
wounded. Now the transcript tapes, you hear the shots and they say are those
more shots fired. But the key is they said there was antifa literature all over
the place. So much of it, it was almost like it was planted. And then there was
photos of trips to the Middle East. And that's all I got. And then while it was
on air, I got a text confirming the information yet again. And I told you
that, that we need to have the police talk about was he radicalized. Because it
took them three days after San Bernardino and later the FBI said we were
ordered to say it was an Islamic and we're sick of it. Two years before we
were watching the couple, she was going to Saudi Arabia. She was going to Pakistan.
They were going and getting radicalized. She wasn't even born here. She wasn't
even a citizen. He was a citizen. Wasn't born here. The memory serves. And we
were ordered to cover that up. And when we wouldn't, they started a criminal
DOJ, civil rights investigation of two federal marshals and an FBI agent. So
they were watching this mosque because it was a radicalization center and you
saw what happened. The neighbors wouldn't even report the bombs and the
guns because they thought it was politically incorrect to do so. Plus
they were probably scared. Major Hassan at Fort Hood, they wouldn't say it was
an Islamic attack for almost four years. Same thing with all these other Army,
Navy, Marine Corps, Recruiting Center attacks and the Pulse Night Club. It
took them years in the case of Hassan and days and weeks in other cases. So
we're not just going to sit here while he's attacking a group of Trump
supporters as the left sees it. And the left celebrated this. They see country
music folks as one monolithic grip of white people that like Trump, even though
that's not even the case. Just like they said, Houston's all white and they hope
everybody dies in mainstream news, even though it's 70% minority. That's how
ignorant and racist and dumb with stereotypes the left is. And so you've
got the target. That's your motive. Number one, then you got ISIS taking
responsibility. They normally only take responsibility if they've done it.
Even AP admits that. AP said it's rare for them to take credit for something
they haven't done. And it all builds up and it looks just like him a few months
before and an Antifa women's rally, women's March rally against Trump. And man,
you look at that video from the side, you're not sure. But when they have a
dead on shot of him, if it's not him, it's his twin brother. I mean, his brother
doesn't look as much like him as this guy does. And his brother looks just like
him just younger. Oh, by the way, the brother said he'd never do this. He's a
great guy. He's wonderful. He's worked for, you know, clandestine type groups and
stuff. Lockheed the skunk works. Oh, yeah, he's got all this money. He's traveled
all over the world to either organize crime or a spook. And ladies and gentlemen,
now his brother says, Oh, he did it. He acted alone. It's him. It's him. There's
video of his brother. We'll play it when we come back. Oh, it's him. Of course he
did it. Absolutely. His brother's done a 180 overnight. It's him. Shut it down. No
more investigations. And you've got his brother, the one that's dead, wiring the
money all over the place. The Philippines, you name it. This thing stinks to the
heavens. We told you he'd probably be on drugs. We told you there'd be
intelligence agency cutouts. We told you that they look for signs of radicalization.
We told you look for other folks inside the rooms that it was really two rooms.
All of it confirmed. How do you think we knew this? We didn't get it out of a
crystal ball, folks. We have the sources. Choose to take control of your chemistry
with survival shield X two and bio true selenium. This powerful combo is perfect
for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from
synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super
high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in
order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in
the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog. Survival shield X two and bio true
selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of
your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of survival
shield X two and bio true selenium at info wars life.com enjoy all natural
bath and beauty products with Emmerich's essentials. We are proud to bring you a
collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, deat free herbal bug spray,
concentrated peppermint mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo, and
long lasting natural deodorant. Emmerich's essentials is free of chemicals and
toxins that may harm your body. We carefully select pure and simple
ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic. Our
mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on
quality. Feel good about using Emmerich's essentials. Start saving money and stop
exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarstore.com
and learn more about the new Emmerich's essentials line of organic products.
That's infowarstore.com. As most of you already know I am a voracious
consumer of news and information and in the last four or five years doing more
and more research I came across the fact that the elite establishment is
fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors in many cases had much
better nutrition than we do today and our ancient ancestors sought out the
bones of the animals that they were hunting killing and then processing and
so I set out to develop caveman but to not just have concentrated bone broth
from chicken but seven other superfood ingredients known for cleansing and
supercharging the body at the same time. Info wars isn't just fighting the
globalist we're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the
complete media assault and winning because of your support caveman is back
in stock people absolutely love it so please secure your caveman today at
infowarslife.com or by calling toll free triple a 2533139. It's not just our
water we need to filter it's not just our food that needs to be cleaned it's the
air we're breathing especially for our children. The artificial particulates
of the chemicals is absolutely weighing down our immune systems. The same team
based right here in America that brought you the Alexa pure groundbreaking
water filtration systems have now developed Alexa pure breeze whether
it's your home or office you owe it to yourself your co-workers your family your
children to the best job you can to purify your air. The elite are masters
at poisoning our environment while themselves doing things that mitigate
or avoid most the toxic effects for themselves. The general public doesn't.
The Alexa pure breeze would be a steal at $300, $400, $500. One of these systems can
keep 800 square feet incredibly clean. This is a system I'm personally putting
in throughout my house replacing older more expensive filters that didn't do as
good a job. Find out why this system is so revolutionary today at infowarstore.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Big Brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop
tyranny? Well so does he. Live from the infowar.com studios it's Alex Jones.
Now I want to just tell listeners and viewers something obviously everybody
now recognizes that info wars broke the fact that the police are looking at
radicalization and have found evidence of that in the Vegas massacre. All sub
evidence is emerging of multiple shooters and I've talked to many military
experts that are among some of the best in the world and they say clearly you
can hear two different types of firearms being used sometimes
simultaneously. Now I guess you could be holding two of them at the same time but
this is serious. We also have all the telltale signs of a Patsy working for
Lockheed Martin connected to the skunk works traveling all over the world
millions of millions of dollars that he couldn't show for from shadowy
investments. A wife or girlfriend married to two other men connected to
Islamic groups connected to Antifa groups. This is all emerging and that's why
day one they have been attacking so incredibly viciously anyone that even
dared look at any of these areas. Then he's a degenerate gambler on men
heads. You look at where this ends up happening in a hardcore Democratic Party
Company stronghold involved giving massive amounts of money to the very
suspect groups who had their hands in OKC and other events and it goes on and on
and on and then the hostage rescue team is so upset by what they found that they
felt like they had to reach out to info wars specifically and then they reach
back out and said yes you you you said it perfectly what we relayed to you thank
you. So I relayed to you what people that pull the trigger for the FBI told us
word for word from conversations in the morning and text from other sources I
had double check it. Now understand this is dangerous stuff folks this is real.
These people are risking their lives. There's a civil war inside the government
that's why you're seeing the type of information come out. Now they're gonna
hit us with the disinfo that nobody died. These were all crisis actors they'll
probably just edit that and say I said it I did not say that. I normally war game
things and walk through scenarios even scenarios that disagree with. I'm not
gonna do that here because they'll edit it and put it on the news and say that I
said it didn't happen. I've been saying since Sunday night before it happened it
was going to happen in October and that they were trying to kick off a civil war
and then the morning because we've been so on top of this our sources told us
that it was full of Antifa literature and traveling to the Middle East. That
came out later in the afternoon about the traveling to the Middle East is live
in common law wife Filipino wife. So on Friday and on Sunday I let it out.
Obviously Info Wars is a big platform obviously Drudge is the biggest and our
sources know our articles tend to get on Drudge that's why one reason we're
giving the info. Where do you see it now on Drudge? So that's how this operates
and they are really upset on both sides because the folks in the FBI they're not
even sure what really happened here. Obviously they know the guy had massive
help and then they hear the media immediately saying that A he killed
himself which isn't true according to them and B he had radicalization material.
Now you have the sheriff coming out and saying they're having to look at that
which shows it means they found clues that make them quote look to see if he's
a radical. When police spokespersons talk like that they did that day three of
San Bernardino. They said we're looking at radicalization. By the next day they
were Muslims. By the day after that we knew about them traveling to Pakistan
and to Saudi Arabia and we knew the whole story. But remember the target is the
motive. If a black church gets shot up by a white guy you can probably bet 99% of
the time he's a white supremacist. Not bad. Scumbag. If a white church gets shot
up by a black guy he turns out to be a Muslim you can bet he's a radical Muslim
and his Facebook said he was and he was going to kill white people a week and a
half ago. This is not rocket science. Here is the sheriff last night coming out
saying they're looking to see if he was radicalized which means they found
material so they now have to look in that direction. Here it is. I don't know if we
have possible future prosecution. You know you've heard me say that we're
comfortable that we have the suspect in the custody but something more may come
of that investigation and I want to understand the motivation that you
describe okay to prevent any future incidents and you know did this person
get radicalized unbeknownst to us and we want to identify that source. And you see
how upset he is because the new information I have
I'm in way over my head and by the way the whole planet's in over its head with
the nuclear weapons and all the craziness I mean I know why the sheriff
right there is completely freaked out because to know there's groups this big
and the Democratic Party and all of you people involved that there's no end to
what they'll do I mean they said they're gonna overthrow the president and have a
civil war this month they said they're gonna kill the Republicans they've had
top Democratic strategist on TV say hashtag Republicans when the guy went
shot Scalise they had his friend on to say he wasn't a bad guy he did the right
thing because of politics and well Blitzer nodded his head they're getting
ready for war and in full spectrum dominance they're going to carry out the
attacks and then they're gonna turn around and blame us and say our rights
and our freedoms are to blame get it that's 21st century warfare you carry
out the attack and then you blame your enemy who you just killed but here's the
deal smart people see through it so here's Colonel Schaefer then I'm gonna
play the top forensic psychologist psychiatrist who by the way is getting
all sorts of threats right now for daring to point out hey CNN's at fault
here CNN's the one radicalized in calling for violence saying all white
people are racist and they got all these white folks that say they got to go out
and show they're not bad these guys have courage to be doing this because they're
coming after everybody that stands up and points out what's really going on
here is Colonel Schaefer last night I think it's shaping up to be a very
deliberate act of terror this is beyond dispute dispute the question becomes
motive everybody seems to be searching searching for a motive Martha I would
argue most of the clues of the motive is right in front of us right this
individual parallels in many ways by age and prior by predisposition of being
unstable the shooter who attacked Congressman Scalise back in June they
go Hodgkinson attack the very similar age they are both considered unstable and
so in many ways after talking to both the psychological professional and some
other folks in law enforcement there's a lot of parallels there let's look at the
target as well it was a politically selected target I think the target being
selected and let me say this is the perception based on available information
the perception was there's going to be a lot of pro-gun folks there Trump
supporters at this concert so therefore I believe the perception was by the
shooter by the individual who did this by a paddock that this was a legitimate
target of political expression Martha this may be something people don't like
to understand but the very reason that Hodgkinson did what he did and I believe
paddock did what he did is because the left is now encouraged the use of
violence as an extension and use of political speech and this is what we
have to be very careful about the slippery slope the idea here that
somehow violence can become part of someone expressing themselves and I
think that's the real danger here let me start something else out there there
was no violence perpetrated by against Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton during
the run-ups to this election so this has become a feature of desensitization by
the left the Catholic Griffith beheading fake beheading the president
things like this I think are what's pushing a lot of folks to believe now
that somehow violence is an acceptable piece of their political justify Chafer
is 100% on target that's exactly what they're doing then they play dumb when
it happens and say we're gonna take your rights after they've created the
climate for this to happen this is a plan program and he's to run major CIA
operations in the field he's telling you point blank what it is we've got more
straight ahead December 23rd 1776 these are the times that try men's souls the
summer soldier and the Sunshine Patriot wheel in this crisis shrink from the
service of their country but he that stands by it now deserves the love and
thanks of man and woman tyranny like hell is not easily conquered yet we have
this consolation with us that the heart of the conflict the more glorious the
triumph what we obtain too cheap we esteem too lightly it is dearness only
that gives everything its value heaven knows how to put a proper price on its
goods and it would be strange indeed if so celestial an article as freedom
should not be highly rated Britain with an army to enforce her tyranny has
declared that she has a right not only to tax but to bind us in all cases
whatsoever and if being bound in that matter is not slavery then there is no
such thing as slavery upon earth even the expression is impious for so
unlimited a power can only belong to God Thomas Payne the American crisis please
listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high-quality products and fund the
info war a 360 win number one when you choose auto ship before checkout we give
you 10% off on your order at info or short.com number two you're also able to
get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold
back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for
years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need
each month just go to info or store.com select your favorite product or
products click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you
another order as you know I coined the term 360 win and with a new auto ship
feature at infowarslife.com this is a sure win 10% off on auto ship win win win
at infowarslife.com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of
stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship Alex Jones here
to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide also enjoying what
I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet for more
than a decade my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown arabica beans
we have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized
blend discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at
infowarslife.com this coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without
the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally hands
down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or
two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed available in original or
with our immune support infusion blend you will be supporting a free press all
the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at
infowarslife.com not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a
year to do it why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the
problem that pretty much scares me the most I mean I try to make sure that I
don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but right now
we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your
body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading
disease around we have biological warfare going on everywhere these are all
parasites tell us about all the stuff I said there's so many things that are in it
you have the neem in there you have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood I
recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year all right well I'm
glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today it just came back
in yesterday living defense infowarslife.com and folks you can't lose
full of stuff that's great for your body period and you support the broadcast
infowarslife.com thank you doctor group from the Global Healing Center thank
you so much for all your work sir on this great product you're listening to
the Alex Jones show
well I won't back down Monday through Friday no I won't 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
we're live a lot of other registrations we are the broadcast you know the
media acts like infowars is dangerous and that that's a bad thing but who are
we dangerous to we're dangerous to the globalist and I hope the listeners and
viewers don't take for granted the affiliates that bravely carry this
broadcast hope you don't take for granted the great crew we've got because
infowars is a precious asset in the fight for freedom and I want to thank you
all for your support and your prayers and know this I don't take you for
granted it's very very humbling to be at your service because being a service
for you as a service to myself and my family and trying to beat the absolutely
kleptocratic psychopathic globalists that are so ruthless if you just joined
this Colonel Schaefer one on Fox News last night and said from his sources in
the government this is a leftist Democratic Party operation with mainstream
media corporate media hyping the climate of kill the Republicans kill the
white people and Michelle Obama came out and said that the government's bad
because there's white people and there and there's men that's a quote that's
coming up you see Trudeau saying after another Islamic attack Sunday he said
white supremacism is the problem we apologize for it so when a black guy
kills white people it runs them over you just say that as cognitive dissonance
and you keep pushing and then when your target gets shot up and 500 people get
shot and 59 get killed you turn around and say see white people turn your gun
in oh and when people don't take their vaccines you have the head of the Texas
vaccine program out of Baylor say we've got to get rid of the white people let's
kill them see this all sounds insane but they all said that the deputy had a
CBS said these are a bunch of white Republicans they deserve it she's a
white woman they've gotten so radicalized with their own propaganda that
they're believing all this stuff and then when their folks go out and kill
they cover it up and they blame it on the victims and you see Democrats all
over the place I've got a stack of news of Democrats celebrating the dead
simultaneously oh we love them so much oh but they deserve it they're a bunch of
Republican right-wing scum that like country music fly over country oh but
remember them and turn your guns in but you're the ones that want guns so you
deserve it that's what they're saying and they think you're stupid but the
truth is you've broken with them you're awake to what they're doing and so they
now have weaponized all the media and the NFL and the late-night shows and
that's not working either so now they've got to wind up one of their toys to go
out and shoot hundreds of people to try to then project it on us and say see
we should be running things we know you did it scum bare minimum by hyping the
whole thing you're to blame and Colonel Shaffer says you're to blame and the top
psychiatrist that works for the federal government's come out and says you're to
blame and other experts are coming out saying you're to blame and clearly look
at the target look at the guy and it's all gonna come out him there and hit
wearing his little pink you know hat and being part of the women's March group
and sorcerer and all of it's coming out we know just exactly what went on now
don't we we now have it all figured out don't we and so you better try as hard
as you can to keep it covered up just like Hillary hacking the election she
stole five states tried to steal six others got caught had five plus million
legal vote not three million like Trump said it's all come out Harvard studies
they turned around and say the Russians tried to hack it well of course every
foreign government out there tries to influence our elections we do theirs too
but they weren't anything compared to all of Hollywood and all the big media and
all the big telecoms and Google and Facebook and the big internet companies
and the big universities and all the money and all the newspapers and the
foreign governments and the Saudi Arabians and the EU and the Vatican all
saying you can't make America great again you'll never rebuild you'll never
have 3% growth rate again we're gonna get your guns we're gonna ban your
speech your kids belong to us remember MSNBC well guess what your name is easy
as you thought it'd be dirt bags and now you're telling everybody you're gonna
start killing people and you got CIA deputy directors on TV saying we're
gonna kill the president as a threat to the president as if he doesn't know what
you're doing as if you think he's gonna roll over he's not rolling over I'm not
rolling over and all you've done is shum in the whirlwind scum that's all you've
done is wake up America good luck now Grendel thought he was coming to eat
Beowulf but Grendel went home with his mommy with his right arm torn out of the
socket bleeding to death politically you think you're hunting us get ready
we're gonna destroy you politically and we're gonna hold our fire but you watch
they're gonna false flag even bigger now they're going for total broke to break
your will and if they do that then they're gonna put 50 million people in
forced labor camps that's mainstream news and they can't wait to give everyone
of these little communist time with your wife and kids in some dungeon cuz
that's what they want I'm not kidding they're coming you wanted to see the
fight for America you're living it 2017 baby this is it
toe-to-toe combat with the globalist politically and every front they launch
about Puerto Rico or you name it Trump is there to block them it's an amazing
time to be alive forensic psychiatrist suggests gunmen may have deliberately
targeted conservatives to CNN actually contribute to the mass shooting hell
I've seen CNN having guessed on that we're friends with a skilly shooter saying
he was not a bad guy and was a good guy they celebrated it you can pull the
article up as the motive behind Sunday night's massacre in Las Vegas remains
unclear forensic psychiatrist Dr. Michael Wellner suggested the government
Stephen Paddock may have deliberately target conservatives and that CNN was
probably to blame well it's beyond that Paul Watson's being safe here he walks
through the motive the history here it is this is powerful this is important
now trying to figure out why a gunman opened fire with 23 firearms in his
hotel and 19 back at his house killing at least 59 people and injuring hundreds
more according to his brother there was no clues he would commit such a horrific
attack there were clues a religious affiliation deposit a quarter now his
brother says he totally did it 100% a 180 now that somebody's talk to him
because we need to shut this down now 180 in just two days but again no there
was affiliations we know anti-fight and other material inside continue you
should know he just hung out or shot horrified hit boss complete I wanted to
be nice on Monday but that even the crew said this guy looks like he's
completely full of BS I mean if your child you caught him with cookie stuff
all over their face and a cookie in their hand they said oh I wasn't eating
the cookies dad I mean this guy and he's totally 180 but I was nice on Monday
it didn't say this guy sounded like he was full of baloney but but let's back
it up five seconds let's finish up with this guy here is the reported shooter's
brother Eric Paddock here it is oh yeah her shock horrified completely dumb
founded about this so what goes on in the mind of a shooter like this as they
shoot at innocent people here now to discuss this is Dr. Michael Welner
he's a top forensic psychiatrist who is personally examined a number of mass
killers doctor thank you for being with me what happened what's going on here
well if you want to understand the killer the most important place to start
is with the victims and what we can immediately see is that he had no
relationship to the killers a workplace mass shooter knows his victims and they
want to see the victim and they want to destroy annihilate the workplace and
marty another key point the family mass shooter knows the family wants to
annihilate the family the criminal enterprise wants to kill a gang so it's
a stranger mass homicide and a stranger mass homicide happens for one of two
reasons either a person acting for a cause or a person acting because he wants
to transcend notoriety and kill as many people as possible like a James Holmes
however James Holmes who was the war or a shooter and you worked on that case
yes here's the thing shooting for notoriety's sake and nothing more is a
young man's crime and this is a 64 year old with no dramatic mental illness no
major decline someone who's intact I think if we want to understand what's
behind the crime we should look at James Hodgkinson the shooter of
congressman scolese because that crime itself was intended to be a spectacle
and and of much bigger scope imagine this what he intended to do Hodgkinson
was not only kill all of those lawmakers but Republicans but in doing so would
have had to have special elections to replace all of them and if it weren't
for the security people who who intercepted him you had all kinds of
congressmen and lawmakers in a dugout defenseless who would have been
mowed down my point is a spectacle is either designed to cause some derivative
impact or to instigate some cause discussion that's right a special
election and even mainstream news now admits this appears to be a
destabilization campaign of the US to bring in martial law folks we must face
the attack we're under and we're gonna beat it yes it's radical to say that
because reality is radical this is happening this is the battle for America
you're living 1776 part 2 right now choose to take control of your chemistry
with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect
for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from
synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed our super
high-quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in
order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in
the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow
metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2
and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body take
control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com
refresh your breath with imrexistentials organic mouthwash our formula is made
from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a
cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste imrexistentials
mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol chemicals or other
artificial ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes the pure organic
plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that
work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath this antiseptic mouthwash
is a concentrated formula you will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10
parts water imrexistentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily
brushing routine it is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive
gums and canker source go organic today with imrexistentials visit infowarsstore.com
to learn more that's infowarsstore.com
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
live from the infowars.com studios you're listening to the Alex Jones show
the war was lost the treaty signed it was not cut across the land it was not
cut while president trump is breaking the globalist treaty with the mega banks
and pulling the u.s. out of this globalist system that's why all hell's
breaking list there's Rogerport.com two of those top links are infowars.com
reports by Paul Joseph Watson sheriff did shooter get radicalized and then what
he says is we're now having to look at that which means they have materials
showing that they have to investigate that and that's what the hostage rescue
team sources that I can tell you are directly with the hostage rescue team I
know I can't believe we have sources that good we do because we're crazy enough
to tell you the truth there other folks are scared I'm not bragging because I'm
in this to win as people understand this is like a shot out of a cannon or
evil-can-evil stuff at this point okay and I'm not jumping over buses here to
act tough or get money I'm doing this because I you get into this fight slow
and before you know it you'll give anything to win because you know that's
that's that's the that the globalist are pure evil but listeners need to know the
mean the stuff going on right now is fantastical okay the Democrats have
openly called for civil war in October November openly told their people to go
out and kill Congress kill white people kill kill kill Michelle Obama piled on
and said this is all happening because white people are bad that clips coming
up I mean we've reached next level cuckoo land in fact let's play her in a
second but right now here's the sheriff saying we're having to look at
radicalization and if other arrests are gonna have to be made because of the
materiel and that's what was in the hotel room folks he's attacking a
country music deal of Trump supporters Democrats everywhere celebrated Sunday
and Monday then they turn around and say oh well you deserve to get killed
because you own guns but turn all your guns in now they can't even discipline
themselves enough to actually act like they care about the victims they're so
they're as happy as a pig in mud or as a fly on Michelle Obama or Hillary so here
is the sheriff I don't know if we have possible future prosecution where they
you know you heard me say that we're comfortable that we have the suspect in
the custody but something more may come of that investigation and I want to
understand the motivation that you describe okay to prevent any future
incidents and you know did this person get radicalized unbeknownst to us and we
want to identify that source I have a stack of news here with the white
people are evil and it's mainly usually out of white folks' mouth because they
want to prove how good they are and how hateful they are and how sick they are
and how historically ignorant they are deli owner glad a white man shot white
people not terror but community outreach this is out of Twitter and of course
there's just thousands of these so as I heard it was a country music I felt
relief white people shooting white people isn't care it's community outreach
really white people are the second rarest group to shoot folks in the United
States court and FBI statistics you know the number one rarest group they're
also the richest people on average Asians like white folks are like number
nine or number 10 depending on the year of richest or average middle class and
wealth being the highest it's it's it's like test scores it's the Asians up
there on them that the the stereotype well-behaved hard-working smart
judicious eat your lunch and they're not shooting each other unless it's a few
gangs you know occasionally that's usually done very quietly in some
warehouse where they chop you up and you're fed to the fishes but again just
more bull oh you white people are you know I saw that spaghetti Western where
Clint Eastwood was shooting a bunch of people yeah that's the white people
they're all out there riding their horses to the country music thing and
all shoot each other it's the opposite you don't have folks stealing people's
wallets you don't have people getting in fights hardly but again we're told white
people are inherently evil that's the attitude and then I've got Michelle
Obama Michelle Obama right here we'll get to this coming up we have a
surprise guest on the other side of this break oh acid attacks are way up in
Europe they're calling for a ban on acid my kind of band guns that's coming up
as I had my Michelle Obama clip in here but I can't find we just give me the
article about her there it is it's a Michelle Obama people don't trust
politics because it's all white all white all men I mean what a racist
for magic protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's
Essentials perfect for face and body this natural
unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun
protection we source ingredients from nature producing a product free of
harmful chemicals and toxins this natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide
which is the largest particle size used and we do not use nanoparticles the
larger the particle the safer it is for your body the organic oils help hydrate
the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen
for the most sensitive skin EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun
and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life naturally
protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials stop
exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit infowarrestore.com
and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion
coming to you from the former United States of America from deep in the heart
of Texas it's Alex Jones
okay we got a call about 15 minutes ago from Ted Nugent saying he wanted to pop
in at about five after six after this hour so we're waiting for his call he
wants to say some things about the situation I've told him anytime he wants
to come on he's welcome so I really wanted to get him on about the whole NFL
thing and so many other big issues the Puerto Rico lie but obviously he's gonna
want to talk about this tragic event 59 people dead 500 plus wounded and the whole
official story has disintegrated the sheriff has come out and said we're
having a look at radicalization we're following leads on that because there's
some evidence to that I mean when they say we're having to look at radicalization
right now that's what they did day three of San Bernardino as they said we're
looking into radicalization sure they both had Middle Eastern names but okay
they've been going to the Middle East and okay they were wearing full body armor
and screaming on log bar and turns out that the f-pad know about it for two
years but was ordered to stand down by Obama so they have this history the
Pulse nightclub Major Hassan at Fort Hood almost four years after that happened
they admitted it was a terror attack he will work for Al Qaeda he pledged
allegiance to them so it is simply mind-boggling and amazing to sit there
and to understand that they have a history of covering up Islamic attacks
or radical leftist attacks while the leftists are all over the news saying go
out and kill white people go out and kill Trump supporters go out and kill
Trump it's just everywhere it's ubiquitous it's like sunshine or oxygen
it's an ocean of threats and violence and hatred where do I walk down the
streets and so-called liberal cities they come screaming Nazi pouring hot
coffee on me and gibbering obscenities and it's a bunch of white folks trying
to prove to other white folks that they really hate white people they're not
with the white folks because they're so uncomfortable I guess racist around
people that aren't white they've got a virtue signal to them that they're like
them that they're their friends until it makes everybody totally uncomfortable
and they turn into complete mental patients so they got a big problem
they're the ones who are used to control the narrative in the media they
don't anymore they're totally distrusted they're totally disdain they're
calling for all this violence then a guy targets a mainly white country music
venue the Democrats celebrate high-level officials at CBS News
Democrat strategist Twitter saying they deserve it they're white they're
conservative their Trump supporters good but then simultaneously oh look their
victims turn your guns in while simultaneously saying well but they
are gun owners a lot of them so they deserve it maybe you'll grow up now
talk about perching on victims talk about using a crisis talk about being
insensitive and evil but they're the ones that have been radicalizing they're
the ones that have been pushing it they're the ones that have been hammering
this over and over and over and over trying to get a civil war going they
said would start in October or in November so here are the headlines on
drudgereport.com news wars.com and info wars.com right now breaking sheriff
Las Vegas shooter could have been radicalized they're looking into
evidence of that right now forensic psychiatrist says gunmen may have been
deliberately targeting conservatives and then walks through how much it's like
this police attack and meant to overthrow the government meant to have
special elections colonel Schaefer gunmen deliberately targeted country music
concert to kill Trump supporters and again how CNN MSNBC and others are
creating a radicalized conditioned climate to do so receipt shows paddock
had another guest in his room before shooting our sources have now confirmed
that it is a real receipt it is from folks inside the hotel and indeed he did
check in at least a day before they claimed he had five days he was there
and didn't get caught give me a break again most mass shootings linked to SSRIs
and other drugs but MSM ignores that that's from us on Monday kit Daniels
now today we learned he was on medication for mental problems and it said
and it says on the insert it can cause you to have psychotic breaks and go out
and kill people again we said look for radicalization that the HRT had given
us the info last night the sheriff confirms they have found evidence of
that that's when the sheriff comes out and says we now are looking at radicalization
they did that day 3 of San Bernardino as well the next day we learned they were
jihadis and then Obama had ordered a cover-up but the cover-up didn't last
look at the target look at the venue that's the motive that's what colonel
Schaefer has said that's what top government psychiatrists have said
that's what all the evidence shows it's right in front of you joining us is the
Motor City madman himself the omnibudsman of the Second Amendment and
that of course is Ted Nugent of TedNugent.com I wish I could have you
here on Better Times but thank you for joining us to give your knowledge and
your important input into what we're facing but undoubtedly Ted we are seeing
a full-out war declared on the Second Amendment they're going for a broke Ted
yeah it's true Alice thanks for having me on I agree I wish it could be under
more pleasant circumstances because it it is a wonderful time of year I'm
spending time with great families around the hunting campfires here in the
swamps of Michigan I just got back from Okinawa spending a week with the
incredible US Marine Corps warriors so my spirit is on high right now but it's
also shattered because of this tragic demonic violent assault and massacre in
Las Vegas so I'm sure you have expressed that good people are looking at all the
unlimited good that overwhelmed the bad and ugly and evil that is American
citizens first responders and the cops and the military but just just you and
me working hard playing hard regular old citizen Americans who became warriors
and really saved lives and and mitigated what could have been much much worse
because of the lessons we learned from Columbine and the heroes of law
enforcement first responders even they be trained security at the Mandalay Bay
there they went up there immediately to confront not regroup not organize not
spend time and try to determine what's going on they saw what was going on they
interdicted the conditions and they they saved many many lives so yes there
isn't assault on the second amendment but I gotta tell you Alex I'm not out
here alone not just the great men and women of the National Rifle Association
but good people I'm watching Tucker Carlson and Greg Gutfeld and Newt
Gingrich and a crime specialist from Australia completely destroying the
lies and the fantasy of those that believe another gun law could have stopped
this or any of the other mass shootings or any crime in I mean if you can't keep
real Kalishnikov machine guns out of people's hands in Paris France then
obviously people with any intellect and common sense whatsoever were realized
that there's nothing you can write on paper and turn into a law or a regulation
that would have stopped any of the mass shootings because evil is as evil does
but we the citizens of America will not let our second amendment rights are
God-given constitutionally guaranteed right to keep in their arms we will not
let it be infringed any further and we're making a stand right here and right
now we're going to break here to some moments so please stay with us again
Ted Nugent's our guest but just briefly I have you seen the information coming
out they're looking at radicalization our FBI sources told us Monday and it's
now being confirmed that there was antifa and pro-islamic garbage in there
and his live-in I guess common law wife was traveling to Dubai and other areas
he was wiring money all over to Islamic countries this looks really bad nothing
would surprise me at this time I believe that the law enforcement heroes of the
Las Vegas our jurisdiction are literally doing the greatest job I may have
ever witnessed in not only stopping the shooting but also the investigation but
you're right Alex we have to be suspicious our founding fathers and all
citizens of America who knows that this is a sacred experiment in self-government
we must always be suspicious we must always question the information that
we're given and that's why I salute you because you you are an ass-kicking we the
people Concord Bridge American Patriot who asks questions we need to demand
honesty and transparency and by shining light on cockroaches and constantly
questioning a technician given gotta go to break stay right there
support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free
products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with
iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty
fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this
groundbreaking toothpaste super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge
your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient
ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing
fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an
array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their
oral health benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the
first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients xylitol nano silver
and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products
refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info war store
calm that's info war store calm what exactly is political correctness and
why is it being pushed on the American public while political correctness is
simply a form of psychological manipulation the government uses to
control public opinion by controlling your opinions the establishment gets
you to not only agree with their agenda but to also ensure that your government
created viewpoint also influences others in ripple effect this is how the power
elite and the government stay in power the use psychological manipulation they
turn the public into obedient sheeple and over time we lose our ability to
distinguish reality from deception but how does political correctness and other
deliberate deceptions work well first the establishment saturates mass media
with their agenda they're trying to push until it invades every aspect of
popular culture and is accepted as truth such as global warming for example then
the establishment suppresses any counter arguments through their agenda by
calling critics kooky nut jobs racist or in the case of man-made climate change
climate deniers you can learn more about this tyranny over the minds of men at
info wars calm prison planet TV and our YouTube channel resistance news this is
kid Daniels reporting men give your body the support it needs with info wars life
prostagard it's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate
balance info wars life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas
that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and
extracts that our experts recommend the prostagart formula does just that with
its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body
total support it's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto lycopene plant
sterols zinc vitamin D3 selenium and copper prostagart is something that the
men on the info wars crew take every day and from our research it's something
that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their
body going at optimal levels now is the time to start naturally supporting your
body get prostagart on your side today exclusively at info wars life calm that's
info wars life calm
hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25
years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor that's right now's the time
to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers go to
info wars store calm to learn more and check out this innovative and smart
technology that's easy to use and let me tell you something it is perfect for
freeze-drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire
meals that's what I'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of
preservation like canning or dehydrating you know like what you get at the
grocery store there is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain 97
percent of the food's taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf life
of up to 25 years now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation
harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze-dryer so what are
you waiting for check it out right now at info wars store calm
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
the big part of shackles on us ladies and gentlemen is having
our guns taken away and the exciting part about it is the leftist admit that
all over the country they're losing and people are becoming pro-gun but there's
a scary side to that talking to some of the gun ranges I go to they say the
biggest new group they see are liberals but that they're not there being
converted to the second amendment they believe that preparing for civil war with
us so there's a total paradox here and then they won't stand for a moment of
silence they won't they won't put their hand with their heart for the American
flag Michelle Obama says the problem with America's are so many white people
in government they're just pushing classical racism it's so sick and we
have Democrats everywhere calling for revolution and so many Democrats vice
presidents the CBS you name it saying the folks that died in Vegas deserve to die
because they were white Republicans it's like the nastiest craziest weirdest
people and they're almost all white people domesticated weird white
executives and I don't know it's like mass mental illness that Ted Nugent's
been talking about forever Ted Nugent dot com he joins us from Michigan Ted
you've got the floor here in this segment the next I mean talking about the
mental illness of these people they have no decency what's going on
well you know thanks for the opportunity I'm not just speaking on behalf of
myself as an individual or just my family I get to spend a lot of intimate
time with great great American families especially this time of year Alex is the
hunting season which is the ultimate conservation and environmental benefit
that you can perform for the good mother earth that's to hunt fish and trap and
harvest the surplus and give thanks so my point is is that the people I
communicate with it are on a campfire literally every day September October
November December January all mostly in Michigan and Texas but also up in
Ontario out in California hunting camps all around these people unload they
unleash their uninhibited around a campfire and so when I speak Alex it's
not just my point of view it's the living breathing pulse of good Americans
they're in the asset column and we know that when the left movement is based on
the hands up don't shoot live they they know it's a lie but they maniacally
cling to it for an agenda that is against freedom against America against
rugged individualism when you have a leftist movement that's based on the
black lives matter but they don't give a rat's ass about the death orgy in
Chicago every day you know that it's not just disingenuous it's soulless these
people have no soul like you mentioned it's worth repeating you have a CBS
executive that was educated actually brainwashed by the American anti-
education system who literally spews the filth the rot the hate the demonetcy
that the victims in Las Vegas deserved it because country fans are
Republicans and Trump supporters Alex you couldn't write a script it's the
sequel to planet of the apes flew over the cuckoo's nest clockwork day glow
mad magazine hell to twilight zone and come up with more absurd offensive and
they're getting crazier Ted that's the thing is I'm watching them when do we
hit Pete craziness because it seems like I keep thinking we've hit Pete craziness
and it just gets even more crazy well you know in reference to in responding to
your your point about the left literally squaloring about a revolution and
they're going to gun rangers and they're arming up these people I share
campfires with the right the conservatives the Republicans the good
people of this country will never start a revolution it will have to come from
the hate mongers in Antifa and the liberals and the Democrats and the
black lives matter terrorists and the hands-up don't shoot liars if that's
where it comes from in Alice I don't believe it will because they have big
mouths they have no heart they have no soul and they're consumed with hate I
don't think they have the courage to really fight truly fight and put
themselves in harm's way for the lie that they live every day so I believe
that the the the the Republicans the conservatives we the people in the asset
column of America we already have a revolution going we got Donald Trump
going it is a we the people voting revolution where the apathy is slowly
being discarded and we're taking on our response and I totally agree with you
because we're winning the information war we're winning with Americana success
with excellence it's spreading like wall fire so the the insanity is their
political death row so who shoots first loses and so yes but if they do start a
physical war I think you were about to say we're not gonna start it but we're
gonna finish it well you know hanging out with the Marines like I did last week
in Okinawa one of the Marines battle cries is that they'll never leave a
brother behind and that the Marines are their greatest friends you could have and
the worst enemies you could have and that they will take on any challenge and
finish it and that's the kind of people I hang out with and if there is a
revolution can you imagine the stone hippie punks in Antifa taken on country
fans or rock and roll fans the conservatives the hunters the shooters
the competitors there the gun nuts can you imagine the quick end that would
come to that confrontation well that's what's crazy they admit they're trying
to intimidate us and they take our our kindness for weakness and our restraint
for weakness but we're just getting more politically involved as they get more
violent and beating them and it's exposing them and even Pelosi has to
admit they're a terror group and now they're being listed as a terror group
we're cleaning their clocks that's why it's so important we continue to be
peaceful and hold our fire even as it comes out that this guy was connected to
Antifa and Islamist and it's a horrible thing they did but we're winning and so
it's key to stay nonviolent offensively yes we should defend ourselves like the
HRT and the police did when they killed this guy absolutely and the most
important thing I can say and this cannot be overstated an American who
believes in peace and security and freedom has got to me a member of the
National Rifle Association that is the the force of we the people remember the
National Rifle Association is simply a family grassroots organizations that
will not allow our Second Amendment rights to be infringed that's all the
NRA is it's we the people it's good citizens of this country the globalists
know it that's why that's why Hillary that's why co-bear that's why all the
usual Obermann said quote that the NRA is a terror organization that needs to be
outlawed so they're saying gun owners are terrorists now well my response to the
late night so-called comedians that aren't funny at all they say we have to
do something we just have to do something they throw their hands up and
they say we have to do something well Alex you know throwing a cinder block to
a drowning child is something yes it's the wrong thing we don't need to do
something we need to do the right thing well Jimmy Kimmel has five to seven
bodyguards with with guns at all times it's on video but he says some poor you
know sheet worker you know a metal worker can't have a shotgun to protect
right there one more segment with Ted Nugent straight ahead we're gonna talk
about the revolution restore the Republic and what the panic left will do
next try to stop us we got him in a stranglehold know that for sure we'll
be back it was Thomas Jefferson who once said that our country is now taking
so steady a course as to show by what rodeo will pass the destruction to wit
by consolidation of power first and then corruption it's necessary consequence
Jefferson was warning us about the global elite the 1% of the 1%
consolidating the world's wealth and subverting the people's voice in
government unfortunately we didn't heed his advice and now live in a neo
feudalistic society which were treated as indentured servants who only exist to
serve the needs of the establishment political office no longer represents
the voice of the people but rather the initiation process politicians go
through to gain acceptance into the aristocracy simply put it we the people
are responsible for civilization culture yet we're suppressed by a tiny elite
who have organized into criminal gangs that operate governments around the
world we falsely believe that everything is simply black and white one extreme
against the other conservative versus liberal but things will change once
more of us realize this truth as Thomas Jefferson also said in light of the
people generally in tyranny and oppressions of the body and mind will
vanish like evil spirits at the dawn of day this is Kit Daniels with info wars
dot com choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and
health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a
source of 100% organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is
an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals
this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones
you may experience low metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain
fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars
life.com it's not just our water we need to filter it's not just our food that
needs to be clean it's the air we're breathing especially for our children the
artificial particulates of the chemicals is absolutely weighing down our immune
systems the same team based right here in America that brought you the Alexa pure
groundbreaking water filtration systems have now developed Alexa pure breeze
whether it's your home or office you owe it to yourself your co-workers your
family your children to the best job you can to purify your air the elite are
masters at poisoning our environment while themselves doing things that
mitigate or avoid most of the toxic effects for themselves the general
public doesn't the Alexa pure breeze would be a steel at three hundred four
hundred dollars one of these systems can keep 800 square feet incredibly clean
this is a system I'm personally putting in throughout my house replacing older
more expensive filters that didn't do as good a job find out why this system is
so revolutionary today then for store.com as most of you already know I am
a voracious consumer of news and information and in the last four or
five years doing more and more research I came across the fact that the elite
establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors in many
cases had much better nutrition than we do today and our ancient ancestors sought
out the bones of the animals that they were hunting killing and then
processing and so I set out to develop caveman but to not just have concentrated
bone broth from chicken but seven other superfood ingredients known for
cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time info wars isn't just
fighting the globalist we're getting results and we're expanding in the face
of the complete media assault and winning because of your support caveman is
back in stock people absolutely love it so please secure your caveman today at
infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free triple a 253-3139
you're listening to the Alex Jones show coming to you from the former United
States of America from deep in the heart of Texas it's Alex Jones yeah that's a
liner from about six years ago basically pointing out that Obama was
destroying America and turning it into like a world government UN globalist
hellhole but now that intro is almost obsolete not the great stranglehold with
the great Ted Nugent ringing us in but the fact that we're in FEMA region six
under global control we're out of the TPP our borders are getting secured we're
trying to take care of our military the stock markets up we've got a 3% growth
rate going on that they said Trump could never do and that's with only a little
bit of the make America great again agenda in place then they tried to
claim he didn't respond well to Puerto Rico when the Democrats got caught
ordering a stand down by the unions I mean again the level of their evil is
only outmatched by their arrogance in the fact that they think they're
invincible what's wrong with these punks Ted Nugent well you know you say the
former United States of America I hear from my buddies in New York New Jersey
Maryland Massachusetts Rhode Island Delaware Illinois California those
states that I just mentioned Alex it is not America anymore they have no second
amendment they can't keep or bear squat and I gotta tell you they're heartbroken
people are leaving California in Illinois by the droves because they're
looking for freedom they're looking for the founding fathers vision of we the
people and I gotta tell you I mean my travels thank God the curse the
self-inflicted scourge of apathy is being whittled away and by electing
Donald Trump and otherwise known as reliably blue states of Michigan
Wisconsin Pennsylvania for example the prognosis is quite good actually
following eight years of anti-Americanism and the Benghazi and the lies and the
deceit the gun-running fast and furious murder of American citizens and border
patrol agents by our own government it really is heartbreaking and catastrophic
but again I really have faith in my fellow Americans the spirit and the
indefatigable energy that that we the people are now once again displaying and
again it manifests itself in voting for Donald Trump because he's an outsider
he's a status quo crusher and all things status quo have to be crushed now
that's why I admire what you do Alex Jones if you crush the status quo when
you spotlight cockroaches and you ask questions and we're demanding
constitutional accountability from our elected employees so the swamp hasn't
been drained it's a merc fest out there but certainly the prognosis is better
than you and I witnessed in the last eight years well we also had these
Democrats as you mentioned earlier off air to me that refused to stand for the
moment of silence and said it was wrong and then you have the NFL trying to
bully Trump into saying you know that it's okay to not stand for the pledge of
allegiance or put your hand over your heart now the NFL's had to back down the
NBA has they're finding out the true power of America Trump said it's not
appropriate and is disrespectful to our veterans in our country to do that and
they said no you're disrespecting the NFL that was the head of the NFL he had to
back down pretty quick but again we're winning but the arrogance of these
people is frightening so remember it was the NFL too that that literally
continued the lie of hands up don't shoot this there hasn't been any hands up
don't shoot never happened it's a lie and these group balls he's uneducated
spoiled overpaid brats they've obviously the the concussions are already
happening at a fast rate because you have to have a concussion your brain has
to be wounded and bloodshot to perpetrate and continue the lie of hands up
don't shoot these clowns came out in the field with their hands up don't shoot
lie going on so when you've got that level of ignorance and you know there's
a difference between ignorance and stupidity when I go to the Indian
apolis 500 I'm ignorant about how to tune a Cogsworth engine because I don't
know that much about the mechanics of indie race engines I'm ignorant about it
but what's stupid is to protect that ignorant ignorance and not allow
information to come in so that you're not ignorant anymore these people like
their ignorance they fantasize about their ignorance ignorance is about
feeling good instead of doing good in the NFL dirt bags
manifest that you're right they wear their ignorance like a cloak of
invincibility it's unbelievable I mean they're supposed to be anti-fascist and
they I got a couple things I gotta share with you so you're anti-fascist so
you use fascist tech techniques you're you're occupied Wall Street but you got
to your protest by using Wall Street transportation wearing Wall Street clothes
eating Wall Street food and using Wall Street handheld device yes you can
protest Wall Street I mean this is planet these people have to be on acid
do they put LSD on their Cheerios you have to be brain dead and protect that
stupidity to a maniacal degree to not know that your protest in the system by
which you have life Wow Ted Nugent is on fire your smart guy family guy
successful of business not just one of the top guitarists out there in history
but as libertarians as conservatives as patriots as Americana we need to look
into the future they've only gotten more radical they've only got more crazy
they've been calling for an October November surprise all the experts are
saying this guy is the same cut out as the loon that went and shot Scalise and
others who wanted a special election he wanted to kill 15 members of Congress at
least and that even came out on Fox yesterday so Scalise has come out and
said he believes more in the Second Amendment now than ever because it was
guns that helped save him but they're going to double down they're going to
get violent and they're going to intensify I agree most of them are wimps
but enough of them are crazy in your gut I agree we're going to win but what do
we need to do to win politically and be intellectually and just in your gut you
know as a smart guy what do you think these snakes are going to do next well
you thank God for social media it can be a pain in the ass but it can also be a
huge benefit to meaningful communication if you go to my Facebook
Alex you'll see tens of millions of people Facebook hippies claim I only
have three and a half million but I recently had over 12 million responses
to one of my posts so if you go to my Ted Nugent Facebook you'll see that
millions and millions of people share the common sense the logic the good
will the decency the self-evident truth that Alex Jones and Ted Nugent live by
the quality of life is determined by but then you'll get the occasional leftist
liberal dope-smoking maniac who wants to kill my wife because we eat
pheasant I mean you can't make this stuff up and I've got also allude to what
you brought up about Scalise talking about a great spokesman for our Second
Amendment self-evident truth here's a guy who was who was gunned down by an
Illinois resident who had a firearms owner ID card in his pocket because
Illinois back in the 70s passed a law that you had to go through some
government scrutiny in Illinois to buy 22 am over to buy a rifle or a pistol or
a shotgun even just for weekend recreational hunting activities the guy
that gunned down Scalise passed all the strictest gun control regulations in
Illinois and had an Illinois firearms owner ID card in his pocket and God knows
that made the world safer the left are out of their minds watch Nancy Pelosi
try to form a syllable watch Maxine Waters try to stumble on to a
cognitive thought and you look at your Democrat friends and go are you with
these I don't have Democrat friends anymore I don't have because they're
so crazy you know when I walk down the street when I go to the feed mill of
the hardware store when I take Mrs. Nugent up for some sushi hit these part
like the Red Sea before Moses they scramble for a cop they do beautiful I
can hardly stand myself it is a pleasure and then the good people of every
race color and creed all our folks are just red-blooded strong have a gleam in
their eye be they black white it doesn't matter and you look at liberals they
literally look like they've never been out of the house in a hundred years like
they got run over by car I mean I'm sorry they're just they're just mentally ill
like you said and we've just got to protect ourselves from them and just
try to move forward and keep making America great again and we're doing it
we've turned the tide Ted Nugent calm we got to pray for all those families and
all those victims but they will not be sacrificing the altar of globalism that
to disarm America they'll only make a stronger and so that's that's my final
point on that Ted Nugent thank you so much for joining us final comment thank
you Allison I look forward to seeing everybody at my Facebook page and we
will celebrate the National Rifle Association as we the people who keep
in their arms all right Uncle Ted let me say bye to you during the break thanks
for giving us so much time we got big breaking news on the Las Vegas attacks
and more on the other side with investigative journalists Laura
Loomer she's got contacts inside the hotel stay with us that was Ted Nugent
stay with us
I'm very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest
spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve
overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body biome defense
is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23
different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and
intestinal function our researchers are confident that we have been able to
develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market secure your biome
defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info wars life calm today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've been
testing this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public
so please take advantage of it today support your own health and support the
info war Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty
worldwide also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100%
organic coffee on the planet for more than a decade my favorite coffee has
come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers
grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans we have now managed to secure the
sought-after beans in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag of the
patriot blend 100% organic coffee at info wars life calm this coffee gives you a
long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many
other coffees give me personally hands down this is my favorite coffee and
it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas
Mexican farmers dropped by the site today order a bag or two and I don't think
you're going to be disappointed available in original or with our immune
support infusion blend you will be supporting a free press all the while
enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at info
wars life calm thousands of years ago there was a basic form of
chivalry our ancestors would hear the drums of war giving the warriors of the
tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense 60 years ago when foreign air
forces were approaching filled with bombs they had drums of their own
air raid sirens but in the 21st century there are silent weapons for quiet war
pathogens added to the food and water into the lining of plastics that
destroy our vitality turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey
towards death I personally counter this onslaught with antroplex
antroplex is designed with no organic concentrated herbs to create the basic
foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body discover why
anthraplex is turning so many heads today it's time for us to take our bodies
back in our own hands and it starts at info wars life calm with anthraplex you
deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic
formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a
powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions
of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid
speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and
get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life
wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other
leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience
the power of knockout head on over to info wars life calm and say good-bye to
fatigue that's info wars life calm
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
democrats at lunch listening to an info wars dot com frontline report if you are
receiving this transmission you are the resistance
I'll say it from deep in the heart of FEMA region 6 Austin Texas transmitting
worldwide it's Alex Jones this is the defense of the republics the real deal
we're doing it the enemies engaging us everybody needs to be packing like I
told you on Friday and on Sunday get ready Democrats are gonna be killing
people a lot of folks and obviously just like you don't see conservatives going
out doing mass shootings they don't want to blame the second amendment they
don't want to go out and kill people it's almost always drughead Democrats
devil worshipers you name it that's their MO the Democrats know when they mass
kill now they know to not say they're Democrat operatives they just want to
use that to get the second amendment and get a civil war going but he had
anti-farm material inside the sheriff's now coming out saying they're
investigating that which means they found evidence just like I told you
that's huge Laura Loomer's gonna be riding shotgun with us 30 minutes the
next hour with Craig Sawyer former SEAL team leader I'm not going into what
SEAL team he was with because he doesn't want us to but you say he's an elite
operator and a weapons expert he's got a lot to say about the firearms the
concussion where they're multiple guns a lot of other sorts to say clearly there
are other well-known operators and also folks that are under the radar that's
all coming up but we got big developments here obviously but Laura
Loomer has been working her Twitter to great extent as an investigative
journalist and she's been talking to hotel staff getting information that
nobody else has had Trump is now arriving in Las Vegas we'll show you some
footage of that as it happens right now over me while I talk for radio
listeners obviously there's no point showing you visuals but it'll be for
the TV viewers so there is the door of Air Force One open a Trump isn't hands on
can do guy he's there exposing the fact that they had a stand down the
Democrats did and the unions had a stand down the teamsters in Puerto Rico
he's trying to get their 70 plus billion dollar debt forgiven and restructured
and actually trying to just fix the whole protectorate said it's just throwing
some mandates on it the Democrats are just melting down in hatred as Puerto
Rico and so I just absolutely fallen to his arms knowing Trump will deliver if
they just actually you know become free market and get the vampire Democrats
off their necks and Millie Weaver's joining us the bottom the next hour
she's doing parallel investigations and it's collated a lot of amazing
information at the bottom of the hour she'll be joining us in studio before
you go any further just briefly we need to find our operation and I'm so on top
of covering this I've not been plugging so when you hear us plug please take
a special note that we're under globalist attack with a tip of spear and
we've got great products it's a symbiotic relationship vitamin mineral fusion I
had thought we could keep this selling for another week or so it's about to
sell out people really taking advantage of it a 50% off that's going to end
today brain force plus it's 50% off that just started two days ago that can go
for another week maybe but at that price it really is 50% off that great
neutropic if you haven't tried it yet you really should now 20% more in each
bottle you can sign up for auto ship in the additional 10% off that makes it a
loss leader all orders of $50 or more are free shipping so free shipping an
info or store.com secret 12 40% off highest quality mythical bottom and
vitamin B12 rated by third-party rating agencies is the very best vitamin B12
sold on the open market BuzzFeed got pretty freaked out when they had it
tested and they found that but Alexa pure breeze air pure fire 20% off Ari the
very low price for a limited time oxy powder 25% off caveman with the turmeric
and the chaga and the bee pollen and so much more the alfalfa powder but talk
about energy talk about stamina talk about good for your bones good for your
joints the power is in the bones and the ancients knew that this is the ultimate
bone broth formula it's 50% off and that's got to end in the next few days as
well info wars live.com info or store.com or triple a 253 3139 you want to
thank you all for your financial support what I really need is prayers for myself
for my wife and for my children and for the crew and for info wars and for our
affiliates and for all of you as well together the truth and justice continue
to come out but make no mistake the globalist forces that control a
democratic party and the republican leadership are launching an attempt at
a civil war in America we have the sources this guy was connected to
anti-fub and connected to Islamist that's now emerging show bombshell events
we have colonel Schaefer of army and the CIA high-level saying his intel is
exactly the same and we have high-level government psychiatrist saying the same
thing that's all up on info wars.com drudgereport.com has his top linked
right now with the fact that he was on drugs like we predicted he would be
psychotropic style anti-psychotic drugs they can make you black out he was also
of course got a prescription that day before refilled it we also know that
again they're investigating connections to radical groups and we know he had
room service for two and so much more a lot of that's exclusive from Laura Loomer
in our article linked up in drudge so true investigative journalism from Laura
Loomer Laura tell us the latest in your investigative journalism from your
sources that you've gained. Yeah hi Alex so early this morning I have not slept I
was up all night gathering information regarding these receipts there's a
Hispanic room service employee at the Mandalay Hotel who made a Facebook post
in which he as you can see on the screen right there he he showed pictures of the
receipts from Stephen Paddock's room and as you can see from the receipt it says
in-room dining MB so it's IRD MB and then it's three two one three five which
stands for room 135 on the 32nd floor and it says that he had two guests so
this goes against everything that the FBI and the Las Vegas Police Department
has been reporting to the American people in the public in which they said
that he was alone in his room and didn't have a guest and then they also they
also told us that he checked in on the 28th but if you look at the date on the
receipt it says the 27th and my sources a source who has access to the booking
information and employee at the Mandalay Resort Hotel you had already said
this yesterday on my show and published it before this even came out yes that the
shooter checked into the hotel on the 25th so I don't know why I mean there's
obviously a cover-up going on here the FBI now we know why there's Hispanic
folks that were probably working in the hotel warning people saying get out of
here you're about to die because the hotel had to know he's there with five
days 22 guns all the ammo two rooms cameras outside the room I mean security
be there in five minutes right and so you know I've been I've been trying to
tell people over the past 24 hours that the shooter has been inside that suite
since the 25th of September but for some reason the FBI and the Las Vegas Police
Department has been lying and deceiving the American public why don't they want
us to know that he checked in three days earlier why it's just it's mind-blowing
and they were caught in their own tracks lying I mean receipts do not lie
there's a time stamp and it says two guests with the room number and the the
floor of the hotel and they're caught lying just like 9-11 they had Muslims
running around New York it was in major newspapers shang those towers won't be
there on this on the 11th there there are people that knew here because he was
preparing with a huge arsenal for five days thank God that the again the
Hispanic workers were running around warning everyone and now they're
posting a stuff receipts yeah no exactly and he posted it in Spanish if you
look at my original tweet and and the picture that Paul Joseph Watson posted
it's in Spanish and I speak Spanish so I translated it and it says it goes along
but you had the hotel worker that ran the data we've had folks inside of that
before as well this is real investigative journalism you were already
reporting this before the receipt service this is incredible yeah but my
reporting suggests it's even two days earlier than the receipts the receipts
are saying the 27th but my intel and my sources who work at the Mandalay
Resort are saying the 25th and I'm just saying stay tuned for today's presser
because Donald Trump you know he had a very dismal tone this morning when he
was speaking to the media and said there's more information that's coming
out and we've learned a lot and it's a very sad day for me and I have a feeling
that a lot of the information that I've been reporting and that you've been
reporting here at Info Wars is going to be confirmed and you know we're going
to be vindicated today by the president and by this presser because they can't
lie any longer and I'm also being told that you know other sources have
confirmed my my my date of September 25th well this is so dangerous I just
want people to know this this is the real deal we're involved in the hostage
rescue team was so concerned they let us know within hours that no Alex this is
bull there's antifa stuff inside there's more her going to Islamic countries
that came out later this something there's a huge cover-up Laura and also
too I don't know if people caught this but the lost the Las Vegas police
department they said originally that she was in Tokyo after it was reported
that she was in the Philippines and then the reports are coming in this morning
that she landed around midnight from the Philippines so why are they telling us
that she's in Tokyo when she was actually in the Philippines which is being
ravaged by ISIS and then the sister of Mary Lou Delaney or whatever her name
is she came on today and she said oh Stephen Paddock had her sent away so
that she wouldn't interfere with what he was planning that's right it's all
coming together and all this money millions of dollars is the anti-foot
globalist cutout of the Apache who was set up it's all coming up with Laura
Loomer former SEALs and others support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind
super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a revolutionary
toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful
clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubble
gum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride
free mouthwash and supercharge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features
natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times
instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is loaded with the good
halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been
hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural
ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our
super blue fluoride free products refresh your breath and invigorate your
oral health routine at infowarstore.com that's infowarstore.com choose to take
control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this
powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true
selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100%
organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential
mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential
mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may
experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super
combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at
infowarslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's alex jones coming
to you live from the front lines of the info war so eric paddock steven paddock
the supposed shooter or the decoys my brother has changed the story 180 it's
complete 180 from north to south from east to west upside down world he just
said oh no guns never involved anything you know just a normal person blah blah
forget his intelligence agency cut out and all the rest of it millions of
dollars and Islamic you know girlfriends that have two husbands and world
travelers and these people look either like some type of crux or intelligence
agency people and now the brother has totally 180 this okay and I must think
they look like that the MO looks like that and oh yes he did it 100% he did
it he did it here is the bizarre back-to-back video I mean my brother did this I
this is like it was done you know like he shot us I mean if he had killed my
kids I couldn't be more this guy's the worst actor I mean it doesn't so last
there's nothing of course Steve did this all by him this is 100% Steve did this by
himself people can't seem to cope with that either but Steve is a was was a
highly intelligent highly successful person he could have done anything he
wanted to do and he did he made himself wealthy he made us wealthy he was a very
successful person he gambled for 20 plus years successfully it's like a job to
him he did it mathematically he did it because it was a way to have a fun life
and and make and he didn't go poor doing it so he didn't ever do any of it now he
did it all this guy is central casting the squirreliest person I've ever seen
the dad was a psychopath according to the FBI bank robber that tried to run
FBI agents over I mean these guys this whole family is like demonic muppets or
something from what I've seen Laura Lemmer what in the hell excuse me what
are you things going on here Alex you just missed a really big part of this
interview with the brother as he was talking it sounded like he had an ear
piece in his ear and he said Steve was in arms and it it sounded like he was
about to say arms dealer or something and then they cut him off and then he
realizes his mistake and then he says he's sorry so you should definitely go
back and play that footage because that is very suspicious given the fact that
he had all of these these weapons and other properties well that's where funny
you say that that's where Millie's going is this was an arms deal gone bad with
jihadis that they set him up and that they then did the shooting and then the
and then that's what happened but listen to that audio that you just played
again because I was listening and I think you just missed one of the parts
where it almost looks like he has something in his ear and he said Steve
wasn't arms and then he realizes his mistake and of course I'm looking at
that in the clip I just played or a clip you have it's a clip it's the same
interview that you showed but I don't think you isolated the correct part but
yeah I was just showing him saying my brother didn't do anything my brother
did everything I was just showing the contradiction but yeah send them the
clip or or the part of the clipper how long is the whole clip guys 33 minutes
Laura can you send them the clip you want played I'll send it right now it's
just the 10-second clip it's very quick yeah can you send to Nika or you was
said to me yeah I'll text it right now I mean this is just how fast everything
is changing you know like live time updates on the cell phone having a
report I mean I can't even begin to explain how many times I've had to
charge my phone and it just keeps jamming and jamming and jamming because
you just can't get this much information out there's just by the way
let me stop right there you have a rule guys when you pop in I want you to be on
air were you just on air Matt just Matt just pointed out he says 30 plus times
my brother acts alone he's clearly does have an earpiece they're talking in it
you can see it's happening like Laura just said and he's just parroting
talking points the worst actor this is a total cover up this is a Democratic
Party production I will say it they did it they've been calling for a civil war
they've been calling to kill conservatives they won our guns they're
completely obvious and they're just it's incredible Laura Limmer stay there
hey wow we're gonna get the clip she's talking about this is insane and I want
to isolate that clip as soon as we can and get it on on Twitter so people can
share it because it that's where we were already going in 30 minutes was the arms
dealing I have it right here in my notes
we hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal that they
are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights that among these
are life liberty and the pursuit of happiness that to secure these rights
governments are instituted among men deriving their just powers from the
consent of the governed that whenever any form of government becomes
destructive of these ends it is the right of the people to alter or to
abolish and to institute new government independence isn't a day it's a
mindset an attitude that says I will not be your dependent I will not be your
slave dependence and slavery is a chain that is forged link by link with
gradual infringements when you trade your liberty for safety to that extent you
become their slave slaves are never safe you won't get rich by being a slave
guard your liberty regard with suspicion anyone who tries to take it
for infowars.com I'm David Dyke
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance live from the
infowars.com studios it's Alex Jones
ladies and gentlemen I already have sources in the hostage rescue team that
told us on Monday morning this is all bull he had Antifa and Islamic literature
and his common law wife was being sent around the Middle East and that they
were looking into it the official story that there was no motive was total bull
and they were getting ready to blame the Second Amendment I called CIA people
current and former I called federal marshals I called well I didn't have to
call I got called HRT people I mean I had a lot of sources obviously and now
it's all happening just like I was told at 8 30 in the morning by one of my
high-level CIA sources is they tried with the NFL they tried with the statues
they tried with Charlottesville they've now attacked this crowd of right-wingers
to then invoke going after the guns then my sources start telling me this a day
ago and then our investigative journalist Millie Weaver gets on the trail she
has a whole list of notes here she gave me this morning where it was a weapon
sting gone bad that he was hooked into intelligence agencies we know he worked
for Lockheed and the skunk works and then he got set up and double crossed and
that's why the police are lying about what day he got there two days earlier
as our investigative journalist have gotten into the computers you know there
and talked to the sources inside have checked that so this is a total
information war and now in the 30-minute interview he says 37 times that he acted
alone 27 times no motive I mean and he's got a near piece clearly he's going oh
sorry yeah okay this is the worst acting he goes from Monday saying his
brother didn't do it and had no guns do he had it he had guns he acted alone I
mean this is the worst scripting I've ever seen the attacks real the 59 people
dead is real that's all real I've seen their off footage I talked to first
responders the media is trying to spin that claim we're saying that's total
bull that's another sigh up to confuse people they called for a revolution in
October they're trying to trigger it they're making their move hoping you
trigger other mass shootings that's what Colonel Schaefer has said from his CIA
sources days after I first broke it I'm only saying the point is we're not
making this up Schaefer has now said it you've got the top psychiatrist that
works for the federal government who's examined all this saying it's a
Democrat plan to overthrow the government to have special elections he's
now getting death threats folks after him he's gonna stop at that the sheriff's
come out and said we are looking at radicalization so we're gonna get you
that clip that Laura just talked about we're getting it right now she just
tweeted it at Laura Loomer we're gonna retweet it at Alex Jones there on
Twitter as well where he's talking about gun-running gun-running and then gets
it wrong it's just funny because at the bottom of the hour that's where I was
going the big news I said would be at the end of the third hour at the start
of the show we were Laura didn't even know that that's where we were going and
then there's a raw tape we're playing where he's saying it so we're gonna go
back to that as soon as we get the clip they're gonna let me know so Craig
Sawyer former highly decorated Navy SEAL Marine before that great Patriot host
TV shows discovery channel history channel you name it top shot Craig Sawyer
tacticalinsider.com vetsforchildrescue.org joining us writing shotgun to
give us his approximation of this they're saying there's no motive the motive is
target Christian conservatives target Trump supporters and that has the the
relish of turning around and using it against the Second Amendment and using
it against the very victims this whole thing stinks to high heaven Craig Sawyer
is a former SEAL team leader what do you make of this whole situation well from
a federal criminal investigator standpoint Alex that's right you got that
as a former current federal officer I forgot yeah now when when you we
consider motive you look at who benefits and that's the first thought that I I
had certainly the shooter did not benefit he didn't know those people that he
was shooting up and he if he took his own life which I don't believe now then
what benefit was that to him he could have just killed himself and left
everybody else out of it so he didn't benefit so who benefits well I see people
that are already preaching what thereafter right on his heels Hillary
Clinton and the others the gun grabbers they're the ones that are looking to
benefit so I would look at them first as far as motive and they're who do they
serve what agenda are they on and you're tracking on it Alex it's a big
global agenda for control over the United States that we've got to look
deeper there to find out why this keeps happening and look who owns the hotel
serious hardcore Antifa George Soros connected Muslim extremist care
organization that maybe listed as a terror group I mean they they are heavy
fundraisers heavily involved five days he's in there with all these guns all
these weapons folks are running around in the crowd saying get out of here you're
about to die I mean Craig this was executed pretty sloppily but in a
place they thought they had protection yeah you know tactically it doesn't make
any sense for him to have had that many weapons if he wanted to do a lot of harm
I could understand him having several weapons in case one failed in a lot of
ammunition they want to try out every configuration in front of Congress and
ban every single one of them yeah yeah this was a political hit jobs what it
was as much as an assault on those those precious victims there this was an
assault on our Constitution and it's I think it's it's readily apparent what
they're after with the gun grabbing and I think we've got to we've got to have an
honest look you know some people are taking a calmer approach saying look if
we want honest and genuine solutions let's look at why this is happening that's
my thing is why does this keep happening not the howl because look crazy
people go on mass murder benches with trucks with bombs with knives with
chemicals with poison with anything that they can get their hand but it's the
season we're in right now we're in the season of political overthrow the
Democrats have said they were going to do this starting October 1st I was on
air Sunday night saying I'm surprised the mass shooting hasn't started today look
at look at look at you folks like Colonel Shaffer who has all his big
sources he's saying this is basically a Democratic Party generated operation just
by them calling for the violence the target tells you the motive the media
being ready to go after the Second Amendment this as you said Craig this
really smells as politically motivated we found the clip that Laura Loomer has
tweeted out we were retweeting it that real Alex Jones right now here he is the
brother of the reported shooter clearly going off a statement repeating like a
parrot the same thing over and over again but then he slips up and says this
I'm sorry I mean that's the thing I shouldn't have said but that's what
people are I mean that he's this you know but he's a highly intelligent what I
mean there's absolutely no and this is the other part that I want to stress with
this that it doesn't I mean it doesn't matter that they won't chase people but
people are saying oh you must have had help Steve had no help Steve didn't take
help it did not take a village for Steve Steve was an arm I'm sorry please
don't I'm using a colloquial I was about to use a colloquial term that would this
much one of the armed forces Steve was a I just covered one guy Steve if if you
wanted to hang out with Steve this guy's wearing an earpiece for sure Craig
watching this as I also a federal officer in clandestine stuff I mean what
do you make of this this is just insane yeah it looks like he caught himself or
somebody caught him in his in his earpiece saying hey whoa whoa what are
you easy there but look we have to be intelligent enough as a society the
American citizens to realize what our global enemies want they need us
divided and disarmed in order to put us under their ultimate control and they've
got a lot of control already but to finish it off they need us divided and
disarmed and we must not play into it so we you we need to unite and I would say
to people that are kneeling that are rioting that are wearing masks that are
attacking innocent families to shut them up you're you're unwitting
accomplices you're helping our enemies by fueling that division you've seen how
many Democrats Craig have openly celebrated saying good they're a bunch
of white Trump supporters they deserve to die the vice president of CBS said it
I've got like six seven articles today Trudeau said it's white supremacist the
problem well to joke to Joe Biden I would say hey yeah let's have a
conversation Joe but let's have a conversation about why you're demographic
by why your political party voters are the ones committing all the mass murder
why are they in the media covers it up stay there Laura Loomer's got a bunch
more to stay with us this is an incredible time to be alive I'm Alex
Jones news wars dot com info wars dot com is leading the breaking coverage on
Las Vegas vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life com secure your
chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create
the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available
vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life comm is loaded with a full
month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body
absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we brought out a lot of amazing
products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its
unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for
maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin
mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin
mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard
that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're funding the
tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life comm and vitamin mineral
fusion take action now before we sell out hey did you know that you can now
preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition
and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food storage with
harvest rights freeze dryers go to info wars store.com to learn more and check
out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use and let me tell you
something it is perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products
desserts and entire meals that's what i'm talking about and when compared to
traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating you know like
what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison harvest right freeze
dryers retain 97 percent of the foods taste color and nutritional value and
have a shelf life of up to 25 years now that's what i call the miracle of food
preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most
affordable freeze dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right now at
infowarstore.com
enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with emricks essentials
we are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at
infowarstore.com including non-nano spf 30 zinc
oxide sunscreen date free herbal bug spray
concentrated peppermint mouthwash unscented body wash
tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant emricks essentials is free of
chemicals and toxins that may harm your body we carefully select pure and
simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified usda
made with organic our mission is to offer you
everyday organic household products to enhance your life
truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on
quality feel good about using emricks essentials
start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic
ingredients visit infowarstore.com and learn more
about the new emricks essentials line of organic products
that's infowarstore.com we've taken thousands of years of
known research and put it together with our own four years of
seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through
mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing
z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa
it's filled with known compounds from nature that are
absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war
it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally
have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to
perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get
you want yourself you want your family and you owe it to the future of this
country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as
focused as you can be because we need you the
remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be
healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers
together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies
with z shield infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
you
alex jones here back live broadcasting worldwide and what we know right now is
the official story of lost vegas is his phony is a three dollar bill
they don't want to tell us who really did it our law enforcement sources said
they're looking at radicalization because of anti-fun other literature there
now the vegas sheriff's department saying yes they're going down that path
because of some things they found and then it's shocking to them
we're looking for trump's statement coming up soon
craig soyer also is a weapons expert i wanted to get his take on
does it sound like one shooter or two shooters i know there's echoes and
things i've talked to some other green beret special forces folks
they say it sounds like multiple shooters to them
but acoustically i know it's hard to scientifically pin that down
here's some of that audio
okay ladies and gentlemen going back to craig soyer for the rest of this segment
the law alarm is going to continue with the big breakdown
with us with millie weaver coming up the next segment craig you're a weapons
expert you you hear what's going on with that audio
talked a lot of other experts they say they're suspicious about it
what do you think well it does sound like multiple shooters alex
but keep in mind an urban environment anytime you get contact in an urban
environment it's it's very very confusing though the echo is
overwhelming you can't necessarily tell which direction it's coming from
because of that echo and you can't always tell how many
shooters there are because of that so it's it is difficult tricky but i will
say even with that considered this does sound like multiple shooters
because of the different pitch the different frequency and and different
tempo of a couple of the the the strings of fire there
so one thing to consider too is those slide fire
mechanisms do allow for a variance in in rate of fire so
in one of those strings of fire you hear the the the around slowing
as as the end of the string of fire finishes off and that's you can
that's typical of a bump fire or slide fire mechanism so
it's hard to tell for sure but there was a lot of fire there a lot of echo it
did sound like there though that there were multiple strings of fire
happening simultaneously
now adding all this together we don't know exactly what's going on but we
know they said this time of violence was coming they're
going to overthrow trump they're going to get our guns
the we know they sent democrats out to shoot scolese
CNN celebrated it i have the video and then said he was not a bad guy he was
upset politically so they're trying to encourage this they admit they are they
have democrat operatives on tv saying hashtag
hunt republicans as a top counterterrorism guy
what do you think we should do what do you think we're up against here i mean
clearly they're making their move i think all the evidence points
towards this being a democrat deep state operation
yeah well the first thing is we cannot allow them to divide us that's what they
need in order to gain leverage and control over us as a nation they need to
divide us and weaken us we need to be intelligent enough and
strong enough not to allow that that's how we counter this attack against all
of us whether we're democrat republican or any other
the sub category that they wanted to divide us into we
need to unite now more than ever and stand as one
nation realize we are all under attack we are all being subverted
and manipulated for leverage for those who
want those global power mongers who want greater they want complete control
over the united states and so we've got to recognize that
so that's how we counter it we we stand as one
we all research rather than just feeding off of headlines from the msm
that we already know is hostile to we the american people
due to who owns them and what their political outlook is
we've got to unite we've got to educate each other and recognize what we're up
against and stand against it that way they want to
disarm us that's one thing that we must not allow them to do
no matter how crazy the rhetoric gets well you hate children or something
because you want to arm your family you know
we've got to be wise enough to recognize the rhetoric
and that it's hostile and just stand our ground look for real solutions if
if uh hey if it's just a crazy person let's look at psychotropic let's look
at medical care for for the mentally ill
well let's let's seek real solutions as to why this happens
if it's not just a deep state setup uh then if you look at the brother and him
360 or 180 and you look at just all the craziness
and our intel that's been proven accurate
and schaefer and the top psychiatrist everybody saying
this points towards deep state operatives a staged event
because of how the democrats have been calling for violence the whole nfl thing
they're trying to turn this country upside down and start a civil war
yeah anytime you've got cameras that that public doesn't have access to uh
they're they're trying to hide multiple players i mean you see that in a
sure why would they release the footage of him i mean these are some of the
most surveil craig you're a security expert your federal officer you do all
this stuff 22 guns all these weapons cameras outside
the hotel room well they don't tell the public this but hotels not just
casinos have a procedure when you first leave your room when you check in they
go search your stuff especially if you fit a you know a background
a profile and then they go through everything else and then if you've been
in your room for a day they come in whether it says do not disturb or not
the fact that he's in there for five days with all these weapons and not
not detected is impossible and then you've got the people in the crowd saying
get out of here you're about to die that's confirmed what does that sound
like craigsawyer yeah well that sounds suspicious to me
look again a lot of the camera footage anytime something happens it's a false
flag all of the camera surveillance footage gets
rounded up by by the feds and nobody gets access to it ever
and no matter how long it seems to go afterward so
that that to me puts up a couple red flags this is making it highly
suspicious so if it was just a single shooter they
wouldn't have any problem with people reviewing that surveillance
footage from from around the casino so um man it it feels bad feels bad
Alex pardon me I'm the same way here with my
cough it's all stuff in the air well Craig let's talk to you again very
very soon as this unfolds Craig sore you got about a minute
without final comments yeah well again I think it's just a
matter of recognizing the hostility and what the objective is
of our enemy there are our global enemies need us divided
and disarmed that's what they're after and if you understand their objective
you understand why they're doing what they're doing
and through that we can best unite to counter it
and not fall into the division let's not be rioting and kneeling and
and shouting each other down and wearing masks and mass murdering each other we
gotta we gotta be sharper than that or we're all in this together
Americans we are all in it together we're about to lose
the rest of our freedom by being foolish so I say that's the
that's the key Alex recognize what's going on research
network share with each other what's going on and look at it as honestly and
accurately as possible and uh stand as one nation I guess that's right thank
you Craig sorry we'll talk to you tacticalinsider.com
very very soon great update okay Laura Loomer
coming up and in studio Millie we were with a lot of breaking intel
connecting all the dots straight ahead I don't want to brag people you know we
are at the cutting edge right now we are breaking
this wide open uh the globalists aren't in total control anymore and we are
destroying them right now stay with us
it's not just our water we need to filter it's not just our food that needs to be
cleaned it's the air we're breathing especially for our children the
artificial particulates of the chemicals is absolutely
weighing down our immune systems the same team based right here in
america that brought you the Alexa pure ground breaking
water filtration systems have now developed Alexa pure breeze
whether it's your home or office you owe it to yourself your co-workers
your family your children to the best job you can to purify your air
the elite are masters at poisoning our environment while themselves doing
things that mitigate or avoid most toxic effects to themselves the general
public doesn't the Alexa pure breeze would be a
steal at three hundred four hundred five hundred dollars one of these systems
can keep 800 square feet incredibly clean this is a system i'm personally
putting in throughout my house replacing older more expensive filters
that didn't do as good a job find out why this system is so
revolutionary today and in fullwarstore.com
as most of you already know i am a voracious consumer of news
and information and in the last four or five years doing more and more research
i came across the fact that the elite establishment
is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors in many cases had much
better nutrition than we do today and our ancient ancestors sought out the
bones of the animals that they were hunting killing and then processing
and so i set out to develop caveman but to not just have
concentrated bone broth from chicken but seven other
superfood ingredients known for cleansing
and supercharging the body at the same time info wars isn't just fighting the
globalist we're getting results and we're expanding in the face
of the complete media assault and winning because of your
support caveman is back in stock people absolutely love it so please secure
your caveman today at info warslife.com or by
calling toll free triple a two five three three one three nine
please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will
save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info
war a 360 win number one when you choose
autoship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at info warshore.com
number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up
for autoship because we hold back a surplus for
autoship customers number three we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this
for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need
each month just go to info warshore.com select
your favorite product or products click on autoship and choose how often you
want us to send you another order as you know i coined the term 360 win and
with the new autoship feature at info warslife.com this is a sure win 10
percent off on autoship win win win at info warslife.com
free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out
of stock when you sign up for autoship choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and
bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid
and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99
percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is
necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry today
with this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2
and bio true selenium at info warslife.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
you're listening to an info wars dot com front line report
it's alex jones all right lower laura loomer and millie weaver
have been on parallel tracks researching this
and i'll be honest at this point in my 22 years on air i am now
officially beyond a headache i know this is real i know we're on to them
we're actually fighting them in live time i'm getting direct intel from the
fbi hostage rescue team we got the direct intel
about hillary and her convulsions and her black
ambulance and it's just like i can't believe maybe this is like a simulation
and it's in like unplugged in somewhere like in total recall
whether i'm the action invention star that starts the radio network tv thing
that battles the globalist and then gets the president in and then
we're battling them in real time they've staged a las vegas attack and
i'm not saying i literally believe that but i i need a vacation
because i watched all that footage of those poor people gulping for air
bleeding and dying like fish out of water on top piles of
beer cans man and i just really got to me
and i've got three daughters and some of those girls are like 16 years old
playing video of them gulping and dying and their souls leaving their bodies
and their and them and them just just just fading away and then the whole mo
it's him at the democrat thing on the video
and the brother's got an earpiece it's so clear
and the hotel who's who owns it and all of it and the democrats and they're
just scum i mean the late night tv people
in hollywood and all of it it is just like good lord
and it's all run by a bunch of skexies like
nancy polosi and that goblin creature michael moore and they're just all
in a nazi collaborator who's done this in countless countries
did the same stuff with mass shootings in ukraine to say the government did that
and overthrow stuff uh i mean we're here millie weaver both you want to try to
give you both the floor here because at this point my head is officially
actually spending this is all you have it a few other times when i get so
stressed out i start getting dizzy and then i have like a migraine headache
so what's happening i've got a migraine headache coming on uh literally here on
air so millie introduce the research you've done
and then you can co-host here with uh with laura loomer
to go over this and i'm gonna i'm gonna let you you ladies host this segment
there's seven minutes left and 10 minutes to the next and i'll be back in
about 15 minutes to ten full or stay with us
all right so some of the things that we first saw with this
shooting in las vegas is that it was highly unconventional
it was out of the ordinary everybody was looking at this going all right this
isn't making sense it's reeks of a cover story
they're not giving us all of the information and i know laura loomer has
put together some amazing information she has some awesome sources and
me and her spent like an hour in the phone last night just kind of hashing
it out trying to figure out what in the world is going on
because i have sources as well that are working with um
as contractors for you know high-level groups and they were saying that this
guy steven paddock he comes across as the guy who
has the mo of a contractor a weapons dealer of some sort
so he doesn't seem to be just a regular lone wolf
guy here and we now have confirmed that he wasn't a lone wolf
with the receipts so i wanted to get your take laura what are you thinking on
this give us some input well yeah as uh as you mentioned
you and i were discussing this last night and you know there's a lot of things
that suggest that um either it's some type of a deep
state cover-up or you know that uh steven paddock had
ties to islamic terrorists whether it was a gun running operation gone wrong
or in fact he was um an isis operative himself
so uh already if you look at the one hundred thousand dollar transaction to
the philippines and the fact that alex has already mentioned that a lot of
those weapons were not uh purchased uh it makes you wonder
how did he obtain those weapons and the explosives that were found in his other
properties because a hundred thousand dollars that can get you
you know some pretty top grade weapons assault rifles a lot of ammunition a lot
of explosives and we're not even being told yet
uh you know what they found on his laptop um the other type of ammunition
and weapons they found on his other properties so
um that's gun running money i mean of course usually arms dealers are
involved in multi-million dollar deals but one hundred thousand dollars is
enough to buy you the type of weapons exactly and we know that he was a high
limit gambler and he has a record of high limit gambling and typically
that's how you wash money so if you're gonna go ahead and
wash through this this gun money or weapons money
um who better than a former accountant and auditor that worked
for the predecessor of lockheed martin to do it
i mean something's really unusual here we also know that steven paddock had a
pilot's license he owned two single engine
airplanes so was he potentially flying weapons
what was this guy's history we need to know more about that but i also do agree
with laura in the sense that isis has claimed responsibility
they have not been known to claim falsely
for an attack that has happened and so why would they claim falsely here and
is it likely that there was a a weapons deal that
happened between an isis group and this person
that went awry right yeah and of course there's a lot of islamic connections to
you know the the muslim world and los vegas a lot of people don't know this
but mgm resorts which is where this attack took place
jubai world which is owned by the jubai government used to own half of mgm
and just recently they signed their own deal to
establish their own mgm resorts in jubai right so in the middle east so
there is a heavy islamic connection the girlfriend is involved in the casino
industry as well she worked for atlantis which is
owned by an iranian of course and so there's multiple
connections to people in the middle east and countries that
have been known to have you know extreme ties to terrorism
and if you look at iran for example in the connection with the girlfriend who's
now you know a prime suspect in this case it really it really makes you wonder
and you know it would just make so much sense this is what's coming together
in my mind if this room was wired up with cameras why would the shooter why
would steven paddock go ahead and wire up the room with cameras if he's just
going to go do a shooting and then commit suicide
but it makes sense that it could have been an fbi sting where you have a weapons
transfer go down now we also have found that
yes this was a large suite and there is some confusion over the windows
that were that were shot and that had holes in them
but let's show this image here that i found that it actually shows that
there were two rooms that had the windows
alone in them you actually had a hotel suite window
over on one side and then you also had another hotel room that had a connecting
door and this is pretty amazing to see this image here because
laura loomer actually was one who told me yesterday that
it might have actually been two rooms with a connecting
door there so i found that interesting to see that come to fruition
and then we also see that there was record of this receipt saying that there
were two people that were ordering this meal from that room
so was there another person here why would why would he have accessed
two different hotel rooms and shot from two different hotel room windows
right yeah so as i was posting a lot of this information and sources who work
at the mandalay told me that he had the suite
the suite which he was originally saying and booked for the 25th
and then two days later he added on the connecting room which was booked
in his girlfriend's name so the suite that he was saying it was booked in his
name and then the second room which is the connector which is why there's
another window that's blown out that was under his girlfriend's name so there
are two rooms and then the employee at mandalay my source told me
that the room service charges were redirected to the other room
so while he was staying in one room he had them
you know like swap out the direction of where his meals and
you know charges were being delivered and marked so i found
that to be really interesting and really suspicious because if you are
planning to conduct some type of massacre or you're setting up a war zone in
your suite of course you're not going to want people to come to your room so
you're going to redirect them to the room next door that may be the reason why
he purchased the connecting room because why would you need a connecting room
if you're staying in a room by yourself you wouldn't right but then the receipts
that i released to paul joseph watson today that are
now on info wars and at the top of drudge report
right uh they show that there were two guests
two guests in the room exactly could this be what we're seeing is that
the fbi is trying to cover up a weapons deal gone bad and that's why we're
seeing so many holes in this story here well we'll find out after this break
guys stay tuned because we will be right back with laura
loomer and we will be discussing the mysteries of the las vegas shooting
say there we'll be right back
support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free
products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with
iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean
enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum
flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our
amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient
ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times
instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good
halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been
hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine
notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products
refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine
at infowarstore.com that's infowarstore.com
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide
also enjoying what i have found to be the best tasting 100 percent organic
coffee on the planet for more than a decade
my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern mexico
where the tiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown arabica beans
we have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized
blend discover and try a bag of the patriot blend
100 percent organic coffee at infowarslife.com
this coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours
without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally
hands down this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure
connections directly to the tiapas mexican farmers dropped by the site
today order a bag or two and i don't think you're going to be
disappointed available in original or with our immune support infusion blend
you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting
cup of my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com
not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it
why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the problem that
pretty much scares me the most i mean i try to make sure that i
don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but
right now we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything
that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all
the refugees spreading disease around we have
biological warfare going on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about
all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it you have the neem in
there you have the organic clove bud the organic
wormwood i recommend doing the parasite plans at least twice a year
all right well i'm glad we've got some back in because i'm going back on it
today it just came back in yesterday living defense
infowarslife.com and folks you can't lose it's full of stuff that's great for your
body period and uh can you support the broadcast
infowarslife.com thank you doctor group from the global healing center
thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product
refresh your breath with imrex essentials organic mouthwash
our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums
and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste
imrex essentials mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic
made without alcohol chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors
fragrances or dyes the pure organic plant extracts
are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to
help tone gums and freshen your breath
this antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula you will need to
dilute one part mouthwash to 10 bucks water
imrex essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing
routine it is effective yet gentle enough for
the most sensitive gums and canker sores go organic today with imrex
essentials visit infowarsstore.com to learn more
that's infowarsstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
welcome back i am millie weaver and we are joined by laura
loomer who has done an amazing amount of research and investigation into this
las vegas shooting could it be that steven paddock was a lone gunman that
was crazed potentially on sri's and just decided to
shoot up a group of people or could there be something more sinister at play
could it be that potentially steven paddock was
involved in a guns or weapons transfer to a terrorist group such as ices
well that's what we're trying to get to the bottom up or could it be that
steven paddock himself joined the radical group ices and carried out the
attack potentially with another person involved
well we're here with laura loomer and laura i really wanted to ask you about
your intel on this muslim woman who apparently was the woman that was at
the concert telling people they were going to die so what do you know about
that okay so um as i don't know a lot of people
have seen this video because the mainstream media has been hiding it but
there's a video of a woman who was celebrating her 21st birthday the
night of the shooting and she was interviewed by the local news and they
asked her if she noticed anything weird and she said that there was a woman who
appeared to look hispanic who came up and started harassing people in the
audience and saying you're all going to die tonight you're all going to be dead
and then she was freaking people out and security took her away and then we
didn't really hear about what happened to her i received intel this morning from
a source uh that is claiming that uh this uh this woman has
been detained and is in custody by police right now in
las vegas and that she is muslim why are the feds being quiet about this
well that's really interesting if she is in fact muslim that really does
implicate implicate isis and we know that isis has already
tried to come out and claim responsibility for this so how would
she have known in advance that this attack was going to happen
so you have to wonder that of course and uh you know info wars just released
this great uh side-by-side video i believe yesterday or
early this morning that shows similarities between
the same incident that took place at the ariana grande concert in manchester
where a woman said that she noticed the stranger muslim woman
who you know kept fidgeting with a bag and looking towards the back where the
explosion was going to happen and she wasn't really paying attention to the
concert and she got up and left two minutes before
the bomb went off right and then we have a similar situation where a
suspicious woman who looks hispanic but as i was
discussing with you last night like hispanic people and muslim people can
often look the same i mean with the you know darker skin tone it's hard to
um yeah that would be easy to mistake definitely you could mix that up easily
but i wanted to talk a little bit about some of the discrepancies
that we've we found out here now they're reporting that
steven paddock was wearing gloves when he was laying their dead on the floor
and that kind of really sparked in my mind why would you be wearing gloves
essentially maybe trying to hide your fingerprints on the guns on the weapons
if you were just planning to do a suicide
event where you essentially kill people and then you know shoot yourself in the
head why would you wear gloves that that's what i'm wondering
i was wondering the same thing and of course you know you and i were talking
about this last night and i thought it was rather suspicious but then i started
talking to my law enforcement sources and people in um you know the gun
industry and they started telling me that a lot of these weapons that
were used to commit this attack they get very hot
you know these automatic weapons and so it is possible that he was using gloves
to protect his hands from the heat because this shooting went on for a while
before police or SWAT were able to even get to him
and so that may be a reason why but i do find it to be rather suspicious that
supposedly he shot himself in the head with a revolver
and that he was wearing gloves to do it i mean it's kind of hard
i've shot a revolver before and it's kind of hard to shoot a revolver
because it's uh you know like a small trigger and just imagine having
bulky gloves while you're trying to shoot a revolver and of course revolvers
um from what i'm being told don't eject shell casings so
no they're revolvers you have to do it by hand Laura Loomer i'm back again Alex
Jones here literally not not putting that on earlier that every once in a while
i get so much news info i start getting a migraine headache with these bright
lights if i can just get out of here for five minutes i went took some aspirin
so uh i am back ladies and gentlemen but listening to you guys while i was in my
office Laura Loomer and Millie we were uh breaking all this down i'm gonna
host some of the next hour with roger stone but
ladies and gentlemen i've covered 9-11 i've covered
oklahoma city i have covered a lot of stuff and
you know i watched those videos because i started seeing people saying the
shooting was fake and all that and oh they're saying i bet Alex Jones says
it's fake no we said about sandy hook we had debates playing
devil's advocate walking through like police investigators do
okay what have happened this way or what have happened that way and i've been
saying for three plus four years i believe kids died there okay but i know
they stage the babies and the incubators and other events the media then
lies and says that i say you know nobody died there
once you know the parents once you know the babies that died once you have the
proof they died in the incubators then i would say
iraq was real but it turned out to be fake it once you learn it's real
you have to admit it's real and it's the same thing we knew this was real a
giant concert 23 000 people all that happening the eyewitnesses
there they wouldn't do something like that there they do it in a contained
school if they were going to stage a hoax but that's not what i'm saying about
sandy hook we know mass shootings happen we also know they use them in the
wiki leaks it admits this to take our guns and restrict our lives they bring
in radical muslims so they attack us and they can take our freedoms so this is
this transference into this authoritarian civilization
and you've got some people out there saying hey alex you know it's crisis
actors hey i've watched people die in car wrecks
pulled over and given aid when somebody's heads have chopped off i've seen
what it looks like i've been there when family died
i've been there when friends died i know what real looks like
i can tell hillary would do those town halls and i'd say that was a fake town
hall shot in like 35 millimeter maybe 80 millimeter it was so
it was like scorsese or or you know uh steven spilbergen made it i mean
you know a movie the production okay i have seen their fake garbage over and
over again i watched last night in this morning
probably an hour of it okay of women with their lives going on that looked
like my daughters with air gulping out and their eyes fading out
you can't fake that not a thousand academy awards can fake that
it was real they wouldn't do it a big open thing like that with crisis actors
and all the rest of the garbage and the media always describes to me the crisis
actor stuff and then says in every case i'm saying it's actors when the
democrats say we're hiring actors to be antifa to help stir stuff up and it's
officially on their site and the same company was hired for hillary's
fake ads i say it when they say they did it
this is real and it makes you want to punch anybody in the nose it says it
didn't you've got your first amendment rights but this attack was real and i'm
not going to have the media say i didn't say it was real
i watched those videos that's real and i know people that were responding there
they saw it it's real sorry go ahead yeah it's definitely real and even the
delayed response people not even recognizing that those were bullets at
first if they were actors don't you think they would immediately on q start
running around no it was real the people well the one thing they also use on some
of the tapes is where's the bullet hole i can't find it
i've shot deer okay between the eyes and as the bullet doesn't come out you
can't even find the hole except maybe one drop of blood that came out another
time it blows the whole side of their head off
okay i've shot elk i've shot every the buffalo you name it with bows
i've shot wall hogs codes i mean a lot of times you can't find the bullet hole
until you just see the big pool of blood because their heart quit pumping and
the blood stopped going out okay but i'm sorry go ahead
you know it's interesting also the fact that the democrats already had
gun legislation in the works to try and go after our gun rights
and then this happens and it just it re they've been saying a revolution's
coming in october this is it laura lumar what's your gut
tell you what are your latest sources coming in telling you
well another piece of information that i released yesterday that ties hillary
clinton to the resort where this attack took place is the ceo from what i'm
being told by employees um was providing through the union
10 weeks of paid leave for employees who wanted to campaign for hillary
clinton during the election so yeah they're hardcore embedded
with the whole sorrows combine so that's very suspicious i don't know why
you know the union for mgm would be giving 10 weeks of paid leave for
employees laura do we know any more through your great
investigative journalism with the sources about the
suspant couple warning people get out of here
you're going to be dead i uh supposed i've been told that there were two people
but i didn't want to officially report that there were two people because i've
only really uh like received strong intel that uh one female is in custody
so there is the possibility that there is another individual
that's huge you're saying people because you've always been great reporting
i mean you've got great laura lima is a great investigative journalist you're
saying you've got sources that they have people in custody we don't know about
yeah i'm being told that there are actually two muslims in custody but
i didn't want to report the second person because like i said i i didn't want to
you know go with something that hasn't been confirmed well i heard this two
days ago that there's massive amounts of muslims coming in
uh this week and then here it is middle east air force books entire hotel tower
on los vegas strip exactly yeah and as i was explaining to um to milley
while you took a quick break uh you know the middle eastern governments are
heavily invested in the casino industry in los vegas
oh of course i heard you i was in my office listening stay right there
ladies and gentlemen we're going to come back with more laura loomer milley
weaver and roger stone straight ahead info wars dot com news wars dot com a
bunch of big specials on nutraceuticals like bottom and mineral fusion secret
12 and others 50 off ends today please support us we need the finances plus
their great products and now brain forces 50 off
hour number four right now i am a voracious consumer of news and
information and in the last four or five years doing more and more research i
came across the fact that the elite establishment is fully aware of the fact
that our ancient ancestors in many cases had much better nutrition than we do
today and our ancient ancestors sought out the bones of the animals that they
were hunting killing and then processing and so i set out to develop caveman but
to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken but seven other super
food ingredients known for cleansing and super
charging the body at the same time info wars isn't just fighting the globalist
we're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the complete
media assault and winning because of your support caveman is back in stock
people absolutely love it so please secure your caveman today
at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free triple a
253-3139
protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by
emrex essentials perfect for face and body this natural
unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day
whenever you need sun protection we source ingredients from nature
producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins
this natural lotion contains 21 zinc oxide
which is the largest particle size used and we do not use nanoparticles
the larger the particle the safer it is for your body
the organic oils help hydrate the skin leaving it nice and smooth
the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin
emrex essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic
products to enhance your life naturally protect your skin with spf 30
sunscreen lotion by emrex essentials stop exposing yourself and your family to
toxic ingredients visit infowarsstore.com and learn
more about the new spf 30 sunscreen lotion
you're listening to the alex jones show
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front
lines of the info war well i want to give all of our
audience the credit our affiliates people to make this broadcast possible to
have this platform for the fact that as bad as this is and
this terrible crime that's been committed and these poor victims and
our families we should pray for and support america isn't buying the
official story because they're not giving us one because they're covering up
what happened yeah and we know that and everything i've
been breaking here comes right from good sources and is now being confirmed
but i have a sick feeling it being confirmed i don't like to be proven
right uh about things this evil i wish i was wrong
but i'm not the one that's right or wrong these are good sources and we're a
major news platform top links on drudge that the
sheriff saying they're investigating if he was radicalized that means they saw
signs of it he said unfortunately we're having to go on that
line because can't believe it we gotta do it he's
just like he's about to cry what they've discovered and then you've got him on
drugs just like we first broke it daniel said monday
and we've got you know the you know the hotel receipts thanks to the work of
laura loomer and others uh roger stone's coming up the next
segment i'll co-host with him a little bit and turn it over to him
but just finishing up this is a time to really be focused and frosty
like i said on sunday show and friday show to be armed to be vigilant
and to be involved in the info war as well and to be peaceful never offensive
but the season of the false flags and them blaming us are
here but it shows you that they can't carry these out very well
and their whole story the wheels have come off and folks know
i don't just say the wheels have come off unless they have so final comments
here laura loomer uh tell folks how they follow your great
investigative journalism yeah you can follow me on twitter at laura loomer
i'm currently working independently hoping to do somewhere for the info
war i definitely want to get you as a contract
reporter for us you know because i think that gives you more freedom but i
definitely want to talk to you because you're just doing a great job
yeah so hopefully i'll be doing more special reports and work for info wars
in the you know coming days in the future but uh in the meantime you can
follow me on twitter at laura loomer and my facebook page is at laura loomer
official all right well thank you for your work i want
to let you get back to your investigative journalism and your tireless energy
god bless you laura all of this together yeah thank you alex thanks
thank you laura thank you and millie thank you and it's not about thank you
thank you thank you but when something's this big and it's dangerous
uh and it takes a lot of research and a lot of digging
and well this isn't a movie this is real real life it's stressful
we're all i'm gonna say it i'm not saying we're as good as the veterans because i
love them they're great but we're serving in the battle for the republic
this is the big war where we are in the war it's an information war it's a
silent weapons for silent war this is how they're going to come after our
rights our freedoms our gun rights and that's really what this is
all about at the end of the day the democrats did push the legislation
through for this gun control legislation and this was the perfect
catalyst the perfect situation to create prior to that to use it as an example
as to why we need to limit our firearms and
i'm sorry but this just wreaks so much of some kind of a deep state operation
and yes it may be antifuzzavolt maybe isis i do think it's more likely that isis
is involved but these are tentacles of the same and she's going back to the
to the philippines yeah and you've had the major isis uprisings at the end of the
day it's the deep state that's the big octopus who we've already seen
colluding with the democratic party leaders over spying on trump's campaign
well let's get you back on the war room coming up today with elin shroyer and
of course roger stone will be popping back in on that
so great job with your investigative journalism millie weaver
thank you very much alex thank you all right go ahead well i just wanted to
talk a little bit more on um on steven and just say one last thing on him
he reeks of some kind of a weapons contractor and i'm going to continue
getting to the bottom of that and i will be updating oh he's got millions of
dollars he gets to gamble professionally but never runs out of money
yeah yeah where's he getting his money from oh is he washing it in casinos
because that's typically what you do with black market money you wash it
through casinos and that would mean that's why he's a high limit
gambling stay right there roger stone give us your 60 second or 50 second
approximation of what you see happening here
okay what i see alex i see citizen journalism taking control in this
country like never before people have figured out the nbcs the cbs is the
cnns that they're full of it and they have to go to sites like info wars to
get the cutting-edge truth in this entire matter
i'll tell you it's sad but but true because i don't want to get ratings this
way but we have gargantuan traffic to everything millions and millions of
new listeners every few hours at info wars dot com and news wars dot com
stay with us roger stone straight ahead for the next hour
then the war room with our destroyer roger stone and more stay with us
a staunch anti-fetalist patrick kenry was opposed to the constitution fearing
it would become a monster that would take over not only the sovereign states
that had created it but that it would become a tool to destroy individual
liberty his warnings ignored have now come to pass
he said you're not to inquire how your trade may be increased
nor how you were to become a great and powerful people but how your liberties
can be secured for liberty ought to be the direct end of your government
patrick kenry warned us the liberties of a people never were nor ever will be
secure when the transactions of their rulers may be concealed from them
today everything the government does at every level is concealed from us
we have trade deals to manage our economy but not even our elected
representatives are allowed to see later in life patrick kenry looked back and
said when the american spirit was in its youth
the language of america was different liberty sir was the primary object
today our primary concern is safety and comfort when we should be demanding
liberty for info wars dot com i'm david night
waging war on corruption it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines
of the info war
alex jones here with roger stone i'm gonna eject out here in about 12 minutes
or 10 minutes but i wanted to finish up the roger was this a weapons transfer
gone bad i know from our hostage rescue team sources on
monday morning just 12 hours after this had taken place they said no he fired
back we killed him you know we put the photo out that they tried to deny it
first now they admit it's a real photo and then of course expanding on all of
that on my twitter real alex jones expanding on all that our sources
said that uh there was definitely the bs going on was the words used and that
there was a lot of middle eastern travel documents and information photos
and that he had women going back and forth not just the girlfriend but
the women and others and now we know she had like two husbands
going to the middle east going to the philippines with the big al-qaeda
isis uprisings uh he had millions and millions of dollars just
gambled all the time was traveling back and forth in and out of the country
obviously using the casinos to launder the money that's what they use those
for and then the brother gives these testimonies where oh he wasn't involved
anything didn't own any guns oh he had guns he's the master money did it all
in in 48 hour total 180 uh he's like an earpiece in he's like well what'd i say
sorry i didn't get that right okay i'll get it right this time i mean
this is like loyal and hardy are running this or something
uh so i've never seen anything like this all i know is
they're trying to blame gun owners when it was patriots that got targeted
they're making their move the democrats have said they're going to have
a huge uprising in october november it's here roger
we we've laid all this out we've told folks it's here and now i have
colonel schaefer of the cia high level and we've got top psychiatrists from you
know from the federal government that have examined these people and they're
saying clearly he's antifa clearly it's the mo to trigger a helter
skelter revolution clearly the democrats are saying
hashtag hunt republicans they've created the climate uh i mean this is an
incredible time to be alive where they target patriots and then blame us for
it roger what's your gut tell you because this is just so bombshell
well yesterday alex as you know on the war room uh we aired um
a video that we found uh at youtube that clearly shows
paddock the shooter attending an anti trump
rally a woman refers to him by his first name
steven he he answers to it making it even more obvious that
he has a leftist connection and if it's not him
it's his twin brother i mean the video is conclusive
it is him or it's his twin brother there's no there's no question about it
and uh you know you and i both remember back in 1963
when the mainstream media came out almost immediately and said
lee harvey oswald loan nut communist came from russia and so on that became
the official narrative that won't work anymore it's not 1963 anymore now
people can harness the power of info wars the power of the internet
and a dozen other alternative uh me well let's say i mean it's the autistic
keyboard army the media says we say that meanly no they call themselves that
that'll do it 25 hours a day i know there's only 24 it's a joke for the
young turks seven how many hours are in a day the 25 hours a day it's like 110
percent uh that they will go in there and find every piece of data you cannot
stop them no it's actually exciting in the
sense that it's a tragedy of course that uh this awful loss of life
but what we're seeing is citizen democracy in action
we no longer have to buy the bs of the mainstream media
who will give us the government sanitized version of what happened in
las vegas we will collectively we will get to the bottom of this and we will
find out exactly what happened that's right it's an information total
revolution like 1776 but squared to the next
level it's beautiful it's incredible it's unstoppable
well and uh i think you put it right in the first uh in the opening here with
this is beginning to smell more and more like some kind of gun
running operation uh isn't odd that this fellow
has no history whatsoever of any social media contact
that would be typical of a government agent an fbi agent for example or a
dea agent that he has no record as a gun enthusiast
yet he has a veritable arsenal in his room an arsenal
no one saw him bring in and no one saw him bring ammunition or any of the other
necessary pieces the elaborate filming uh apparatus and so on how very
strange uh and then we track him undeniably to an anti-trump rally
actually two different anti-trump rallies two different events i think that
that's a this is like lee hardy oswald at the
communist rallies well it very well he could have been
put there as a plant that's entirely well he worked at lockheed and it looks
like skunkworks connected areas and nasa i mean this is classic lee harvey
oswald lee harvey oswald worked at the at the u2
uh proto skunkworks well and as you know they told us in the
war and commission he was a known communist then why was he handing out
anti-communist literature in new orleans going out of his way to get in a
scuffle arrested taken to the new orleans police station
he's allowed one phone call does he call his lawyers he call his wife
no he calls the head of the fbi and in 30 minutes he sprung with no charges
hmm how curious it's all in the man who killed kennedy
the the case against lbj but i i do see these strange parallels alex the
difference is now you have a crusading independent alternative
uh uh uh journalistic tradition in this country that's taken root
through the internet and they're not going to be able to pull the wall over
our eyes we're going to get to the bottom this and i don't even think we've
begun in terms of ferreting out the facts i salute
laura lumar the i like to call her little laura lumar because hillary
clinton and huma abdin are so deathly afraid of her
there's a woman i like absolutely i gotta say i love you triggering them with
the matching american flag behind you for radio listeners people can watch it
in full wars dot com four slash show or many other places but man i gotta tell
you people say wild american flags you only had them sometimes
well now that they're so triggered and wanted ban and call it evil
you know now all glory you know stronger than ever because we've retaken the
country to a great extent it's our flag again and
we're flying that sucker in everybody's face so get used to it
it is so offensive to see what's happening in the nfl
uh... and to see the people who are trying to tear down the great traditions
in the democratic milestones of this country no america's
not perfect but we've come a long way and and and we're a great country
well particularly in the area of racial injustice i mean look
abraham lincoln dr king malcolm x these these men died
to to outlaw discrimination and now folks like they didn't get anything done
uh... that they act like nothing's happened no america's not perfect yes
we still have racial discrimination but at least today it's illegal
at least today it can be pursued in the courts at least
it is the law of the land and great men like dr king are responsible for that
that's right roger stone's taken over here in two minutes i want publics to
know that his favorite new tropic that's brain pill
brain booster uh... secret twelve is also going to be
ending itself at forty percent off but we have
the brain force plus now twenty percent more that is fifty percent off we've
never gone with that big of a sale not because it's not selling it sold out
for months i said double the shipment i want a humongous shipment
uh... so i can really discount this baby and you know don't worry we still make
like five dollars or so six dollars but at at this price it really is me like a
drug pusher trying to get you addicted i'm i'm i'm being facetious but
you know there's always some truth to a joke at least five percent of it i mean
it's healthy it's good it's great i want you to try it just like our coffee is
addictive and great i want you to try that as well it's discounted right now
fifty percent off info wars life dot com or triple eight
two five three three one three nine brain force can run for another week
but vitamin mineral fusion we've never gone fifty percent off on it
with the amino acids total sorption it's so great
that is gonna have to stop today because it'll be months till we get more
uh... if i don't this is going to sell out so a bunch of these specials caveman
vitamin mineral fusion secret twelve they're all either ending today
or in the next three days by that vitamin mineral fusion is gone today
at thirty percent off and then it's gonna be others in the next few days
we haven't done the math the numbers yet but again info wars life dot com
or triple eight two five three three one three nine but thank you all for
committing to the info war thank you for financially supporting us thank you
for buying these products thank you for spreading the word thank you for being
the info war get free shipping as well at infowarstore.com
when you sign up for auto ship you're gonna get an additional
ten percent off on top of that as well infowarstore.com make the commitment
today to fund the war they are your war bonds we are savage
we are winning we are unstoppable with god's help and you behind us stay with us
roger stone straight ahead
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life
our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get
you through the night and achieve proper sleep
millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your
body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day
info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and
beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout
head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's infowarslife.com choose to take control of your chemistry
with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium
this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid
and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99
percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this
essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry today
with this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2
and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com
hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food
for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition
and flavor that's right now's the time to build your own food storage with
harvest rights freeze dryers go to infowarsstore.com to learn more and
check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use
and let me tell you something it is perfect for freeze drying fruits
vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire
meals whoo that's what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional
methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating
you know like what you get at the grocery store there is no comparison
harvest right freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste color and
nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years
now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is
truly the world's best most affordable freeze
dryer so what are you waiting for check it out right now at infowarsstore.com
thousands of years ago there was a basic form of chivalry
our ancestors would hear the drums of war giving the warriors of the tribe a
chance to organize and prepare a defense 60 years ago when foreign
air forces were approaching filled with bombs they had drums of their own
air raid sirens but in the 21st century there are silent weapons for quiet war
pathogens added to the food and water into the lining of plastics that destroy
our vitality turn off our hormones and accelerate
our journey towards death i personally counter this
on slot with anthroplex anthroplex is designed with no organic concentrated
herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic
activity inside the human body discover why anthroplex has turned so many
heads today it's time for us to take our bodies back
into our own hands and it starts at infowarslife.com with anthroplex
you're listening to the alex jones show
you are listening to an info wars dot com front line report if you are
receiving this transmission you are the resistance and now your host
roger stone
welcome back to the alex jones show i'm roger stone
here's some breaking news a group of republicans
in new york's 18th congressional district
have approached the singer celebrity joy via about being the republican candidate
for congress to oppose a democratic congressman
shawn maloney in that district via is of course a native new yorker and
evidently a number of her admirers are
imploring her to return to her home state and
seek that congressional seat no word yet whether
via is interested or whether she's going to consider it but
having met her recently in las vegas at a
conservative political action conference i can tell you she is one
impressive articulate beautiful conservative
woman and she'd make a heck of a candidate so i'm hoping
just on a personal level that she makes the race now shawn maloney is a
very smart capable guy very articulate
advocate for his own liberal point of view it would be a
classic classic race well the entire world remains
focused on las vegas confusion after the terrors
the terror act there not even three full days have passed since this revolting
attack in las vegas and the story inconsistencies and the
number of conspiracy theories that are sprouting like
mushrooms on decayed wood are really quite
extraordinary word comes from the la times
that steven paddock was a regular at the virgin
river casino starbucks in mesquite nevada that he
gambled very large sums very strange for a man
who were told was a retired accountant with
no activity of either gun enthusiasm or
political activity he was seen there many times with his companion
a filipino woman named mary lou danley
and one barista told the la times that he often saw paddock abusing
den danley he was nasty mean to her quoting things like
i'm paying for your drink just like i'm paying
for you um but then unabashedly danley would step down and say
okay uh so looking at paddock's own words albeit here say
via a starbucks barista he was paying for mary lou
danley like paying for a cup of coffee uh and um it is uh i think
gives us some insights into his psyche
taking it face value we know that he doesn't like to be alone
we know the service he pays for are not real and more so
having a paid companion prohibits ability to find any truly meaningful
relationship but i doubt the man cares now
is this all psycho babble yes to a certain extent we are
all guessing but there's an army of citizen journalists out there and the
digging has begun and we already begun to find
holes in the uh seemingly inconsistent and most definitely incomplete
official narrative as to what really happened here who
steven paddock really is whether he is in fact
the shooter whether he is in fact the only shooter
since you have different shooting stations uh some
uh of those with much greater gun experience
uh than i have have questioned his ability to move
quickly enough between stations giving the weight
and mobility of the weapons he was using uh laura lumar i think uh was among
those who pointed out uh that we uh we have uh
evidence of a woman a second guest in paddock's room or room three two one
three five but we still have no official explanation of
who this woman was whether she was potentially
a prostitute or a confederate uh and then
there is the double order of the receipt now
the fbi insists that paddock checked into the mandalay bay resort on
september 28th 2017 uh you can see this repeated over
and over and over again by the mainstream media
uh new york magazine only a couple hours ago repeating that date
yet if we look at the actual receipt from the mandalay bay hotel
we see that it's actually dated september 27th
2017 now this is gasoline for the conspiracy uh fire
this is what leads people to jump to uh a broad
distrust of both the mainstream media and the federal and state governments
who feed us this nonsense why would the authorities mislead the public
about something so simple as his check-in date
and if they're misleading us about this what else
are they misleading us about now from the dark recesses of the internet comes
even more unvetted connections but some of these
leads are so incredible i have to share it kind of starts with the
disgraced california state senator an ex-state senator named lee lin yee
yee was arrested and convicted after a five to a five-year sentence
for accepting bribes and trafficking arms through yes you guessed it
the philippines uh with more than 20 uh firearms found in paddock's rooms
it seems uh that uh there may have been some
effort uh that ties uh the philippines uh the girlfriend to a gun
running operation akin to fast and furious we are looking into this a
37 137 page affidavit which was the results of a five-year
investigation on lee lin yee which was made public by the fbi
soon as after his arrest revealed the senator
was allegedly proactive in dealing arms through
uh the philippines uh through muslim groups there
whether we can establish any tie uh to
steven paddock remains to be seen but we at info ours are working
assiduously on this story uh the reason that i bring this up
is to clearly state that the fbi is still known to track an attempt
international buyers and sellers of guns particularly the drug lords and
terrorists the fast and furious gun walking scandal
was the result of just one such effort going all the way back to 2009
lee lin lee is a more current example 2016
there can be little doubt that such activity
still uh is going on uh yet uh we come to an impasse
when it comes to getting any answers about steven
paddock we are going to be uh staying on top of this
we don't know whether some kind of deal was going down at mandalay bay
do we don't know whether the feds know more about this than they are telling
us we know we're not getting the straight story because of so many
holes in the official versions so far many people who were on the terrible
site that night say that they personally witnessed
multiple shooters and therein lies a deep problem problem
with the official narrative i'm roger stone
you're here on the alex jones show and i'll be right back
men give your body the support it needs with info war's life
prostagard it's time to start assisting the body
and regulating proper prostate balance info war's life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas
that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and
extracts that our experts recommend the prostagard formula does just that with
its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body
total support it's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto
lycopene plant sterols zinc vitamin d3
selenium and copper prostagard is something that the men on the info
war's crew take every day and from our research it's something that men should
really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at
optimal levels now's the time to start naturally
supporting your body get prostagard on your side today
exclusively at info wars life dot com that's info wars life
dot com enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with
emmerich's essentials we are proud to bring you a collection of organic
based household products at infowarstore.com
including non-nano spf 30 zinc oxide sunscreen
deep free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash
unscented body wash tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant emmerich
essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body
we carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are
certified usda made with organic our mission is to offer you
everyday organic household products to enhance your life
truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on
quality feel good about using emmerich's essentials
start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic
ingredients visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new emmerich's
essentials line of organic products that's infowarstore.com
support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue
fluoride free products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste
blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean
enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum
flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our
amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient
ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times
instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good
halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial
compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to
contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue
fluoride free products refresh your breath and
invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com
that's infowarstore.com it's not just our water we need to filter
it's not just our food that needs to be cleaned it's the air we're breathing
especially for our children the artificial particulates
the chemicals is absolutely weighing down our immune systems
the same team based right here in america that brought you the alexa pure
groundbreaking water filtration systems have now developed alexa pure breeze
whether it's your home or office you owe it to yourself your co-workers
your family your children to the best job you can to purify your air
the elite are masters at poisoning our environment while themselves doing
things that mitigate or avoid most toxic effects for themselves
the general public doesn't the alexa pure breeze would be a
steal at three hundred four hundred five hundred dollars one of these systems
can keep eight hundred square feet incredibly clean this is a system i'm
personally putting in throughout my house replacing older more expensive
filters that didn't do as good a job find out why this system is so
revolutionary today and infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war
it's alex jones
welcome back i'm roger stone sitting in for alex jones and you're on the alex
jones show here at info wars uh as the robert muller investigation
and testifies new details are coming out every day
about that direction of that uh very controversial probe
but buried in the story may be some intense legal problems
with the warrant uh that was uh laid on paul manifor
when his apartment was uh uh rated at at five o'clock in the morning by the
fbi at the behest of special counselor
muller it seems that muller's team obtained evidence
not on the listed warrant as required by law
and in fact uh in the july 26th uh raid uh the fbi
may have removed uh materials covered by the attorney
client privilege that could uh in fact take the entire
taking of evidence during the raid uh we have uh
numerous precedents uh of judges very recently saying that to sweeping
uh a warrant violates the fourth amendment so in other words robert
muller's bully boy tactics which were orchestrated by
investigator adam weisman may now backfire on
uh his inquiry in to the president um the other
major development that i think bears attention
was uh a little known comment by uh general
john kelly in the washington post only this past week
kelly said that all policy initiatives
now would go to white house aide mark
short now mark short formerly worked for the
coke brothers comes out of the americans for prosperity
uh a non-profit organization funded by the coax
the coax you'll remember are no particular fans
of donald j trump and they opposed his nomination uh as the republican
nominee for president essentially until the bitter end
what's interesting of course is that steven miller is the individual who
still holds the title of director of policy uh in
planning and under the white house flow chart all
policy is supposed to flow to miller so was general
kelly giving us the early heads up that steven miller the last
remaining trump campaign veteran the man who uh who's eloquence and
who's writing talents so incredibly punched up
the president's superb address at the united nations
only weeks ago uh is miller himself the last
standing trumpite inside the trump white house
not long for this world that would be uh after the departure of
steven k bannon uh after the downgrading of peter
navarro the president's special trade
representative uh and we have to wonder whether
miller who we refer to as the minister of propaganda
uh and we say that affectionately is long for this world or whether there is
some lateral transfer uh in mind for mr miller
we here at info wars are fans of uh steven miller because of his ability
to handle the mainstream media in a most
efficient manner if you've ever seen this guy
stand up in a press scrum he is nothing short of brilliant but more importantly
he completely understands the president's mind
he's completely copacetic with the president when it comes
to the agenda for reform in this country he is the last remaining true
loyal trumpite in the building it will be a tremendous tragedy
if general kelly who is succeeding based on all reports
in bringing down an iron curtain around the president
cutting him off from longtime associates political supporters campaign staff and
yes in some instances cutting him off from his very
own family it will be a tragedy if mr miller
joins the ranks of those who've been squeezed out
of the uh of the trump white house seen uh in
washington yesterday uh miller had no comment on these press reports
i do want to mention to you uh now that secret 12
which i have found to be without any question the best
multi vitamin and mineral formula out there b12 specifically
is probably 40 off probably the greatest sale ever on this product now
b12 is absolutely necessary for for for cultivating the energy if you will
it's in my daily regimen and i have looked
at the labels of the b12 supplements you can buy at the local wall greens
or cvs and i can tell you that alex jones and the folks at info wars put
nothing at the info wars dot com site that isn't the very best of the
best that doesn't have not only the best natural
ingredients but is tested and retested and in many cases
have thousands of testimonials from satisfied customers
this is what alex jones calls a 360-degree win because
you get not only good effective efficient products at a good price
but you're propping up our war against censorship
you're backing us in the fight against the mainstream media who if they had
their way would snuff us the tech left the
yahoo's the amazons the googles who would try to censor us if they could
you see we don't have a george soros standing in the
backstage writing multi-million dollar checks
we can't count on the ford foundation the rockefeller foundation no
we raise the money through products like caveman
which right now is available in both the
chocolate and strawberry formulas at 50 percent off
that's 50 percent off of retail folks you may never see a sale this great
again at the info wars dot com store now caveman fuses
ancient powerful nutrition with cutting-edge
nutraceutical science to create a high quality supplement
that uses bone broth and more than seven different
primal superfoods to give you power and strength
like you've never felt before very good friend of mine adam powers
professional bodybuilder swears by caveman
would not be without it as part of his regimen and he's
preparing to compete shortly asked me to get him some more caveman because it
was running low and i pointed out that was 50 percent
off of retail only today so a salute to adam powers who's heading
for a bodybuilding competition and a recommendation to you again
that you secure your supply of caveman at 50 percent off retail
before it sells out once and for all um there have been this product is
so popular there have been some delays so i urge you
act now at 50 off i know that michael zimmerman particularly likes the bone
broth aspect of this he was talking about it in
washington only a week ago yes you are on info wars i'm roger stone and i've
been sitting in for the great alex jones if you want to follow
the very latest out of las vegas if you're tired of the
filter of cnn and the mainstream media and those who would tell you what they'd
like you to believe happened as opposed to those here who will tell you what we
know well then stay tuned to info wars and you can get the stone cold
truth i'm roger stone and i'll be right back
you know someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism
ever comes to america it'll come in the name of liberalism
welcome to the war room the latest expansion in info wars live broadcasting
we are live weekdays from 3 to 6 p.m central at info wars dot com slash so
and this youtube channel right here that you've landed on
please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications you can follow
us on twitter at war room show we are going to have the most powerful guests
the most powerful host will be hearing from alex jones regularly
as well as taking your phone calls the liberal establishment media has
controlled the narrative for too long the silent majority
is no longer silent this is the war room
please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things
that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund
the info war a 360 win number one when you choose
autoship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at info warshore
dot com number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for autoship because we hold back a surplus for
autoship customers number three we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this
for years because it's so easy to forget to
reorder the products that you need each month just go to info warshore dot com
select your favorite product or products click on autoship and choose how
often you want us to send you another order as you know i coined the term
360 win and with the new autoship feature at info warshore dot com
this is a sure win 10 off on autoship win win win at info warshore dot com
free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of
stock when you sign up for autoship
alex jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide
also enjoying what i have found to be the best tasting 100 percent organic
coffee on the planet for more than a decade my favorite coffee has come from
the high mountains of southern mexico where the chiapas farmers grow their
unique shade grown arabica beans we have now managed to secure the sought
after beans in a highly customized blend discover and try a bag of the
patriot blend 100 organic coffee at info wars life dot com this
coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally hands down this is my
favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the
chiapas mexican farmers dropped by the site today
order a bag or two and i don't think you're going to be disappointed
available in original or with our immune support infusion blend you will be
supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee available at info wars life dot com
choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2
and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your
thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100 percent organic mustard seed our super high
quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this
essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true
selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
discover the power of survival shield x2
and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's alex jones coming
to you live from the front lines of the info
welcome back i'm roger stone and yes you're here at the info wars dot com on
the alex jones show where i'm sitting in for my
friend and fellow patriot alex jones a major story that we broke here at info
wars dot com involved the former chinese
intelligence agent miles quack uh and the efforts uh to keep this
hillary clinton bundler uh and george
soros associate uh who's currently living in the united states illegally in
new york city from being extradited to the chinese
homeland uh as we discussed when we broke the story here on info wars
it got major international coverage and here is an important update uh
evidently uh mr quack uh went to washington dc today where he was
supposed to speak to the neocon think tank
the hudson institute at the last minute i believe at the behest of our state
department that speech was canceled uh we also
learned that quack was to hold a press conference at the national press club
today and evidently again from governmental pressure
that event was also canceled now we reported that quack has deep ties to
iran and the united arab emirates uh in my
opinion he is a national security risk but more importantly he's become a
sticking point in syno u.s relations when president
trump met in palm beach with gia the presidential
pardon me the chinese leader um this was one of the sticking points in getting
chinese cooperation on the issue of north korea
this past weekend secretary of state rex tillerson
and deputy attorney general rod rozenstein visited
bejing china uh and china agreed to even more
sanctions on north korea out of those those meetings
president donald trump deserves a lot of credit never in history
has a u.s president gotten so much cooperation from china
vis-a-vis north korea barack obama you will call attempted
and failed but now this issue of quack came up at the meetings tillerson
and rozenstein have both promised the chinese government
that the chinese uh rogue intelligence agent
turned obama pardon me a clinton bundler
and longtime soros associate will be extradited to face criminal charges in
china remember quack is found guilty of both financial crimes
there and here but the chinese government has repeatedly told the trump
white house they want quack extradited now quack is a
sophisticated intelligence agent and with the help of
super liberal democratic lawyer david boys you remember him
he represented al gore in the 20 uh and the 2000 florida recount
they have launched a counterintelligence scheme
quack was being represented by a law firm uh on his asylum application
in a last ditch attempt to avoid extradition to china
my sources tell me that the law firm dumped quack because he lied on that
application and he failed to disclose his criminal record
in china quack then hired hackers to hack the law firm
and released his asylum application on twitter
now warmongers and anti trumpets in the government are using this to
try to stop the extradition is it a odd that the national security advisor
hr mcmaster with deep ties to a think tank funded by george soros
seems to be the lone voice within the trump administration
opposing extradition of quack a known soros associate
once again quack traveled to the united states on a false passport
he's in business with the iranian revolutionary guard
and a national security risk the president is being undermined by
mcmaster but appears that this could be
leading to the extradition of mr quack and therefore greater
chinese cooperation in our efforts to isolate the one they call
rocket man let us look at the clock here if we can
and let me say that we broke that story here on info wars
and it was the shot heard around the world
we will bring you the latest you won't read it in the
washington post or in the new york times you see uh there a
piece of agate prop by michael foresight of the new york times
there are many in the mainstream media attempting
to cover quacks tracks but we here at info wars have brought you the
inside story imagine my shock this morning when i went to the mailbox
and i opened the two invoices from the attorneys
who represented me before the house intelligence
committee only last week i had just seen their previous bills because as many
of you know and as we broke right here at info wars
dot com i'm being sued by an obama front
organization called the project for democracy who have sued me
donald trump and the trump campaign with the phony claim yet again
that we assisted the russians in hacking the democratic national committee
and then handed that material over to wiki leaks
it's a falsehood folks it's a fraud a fairytale it never happened
but that doesn't stop somebody in this case a large group of some buddies
a group of fairly prominent attorneys all alum
of the obama administration from filing a frivolous
but detailed lawsuit against me a lawsuit by the way
that contains no evidence of wrongdoing whatsoever
it's merely a series of accusations well the bottom line folks is that my
legal bills have now hit four hundred and twenty
six thousand dollars yes that's what it costs
just to defend yourself from the leftist onslaught
i am uh being pursued not because i've done anything wrong
but because i support donald trump and i'll never
quit i'll never stop and they know it
frankly i think this is all meant to be a distraction
so if you want to help the stone family if you want to help with these
exorbitant legal expenses you can go to stonedefensefund.com
uh which will take you to who framed roger stone
you see a brief description of the charges
that i am fighting the phony charges i point out that i still have not heard
from the us senate intelligence committee and i fully
expect to testify there in the coming weeks or months
which is why i'm highly confident my legal expenses
are going to top a half million dollars now
i am not a wealthy man my books do pretty well
uh they pay me a nice stipend here at infowars.com
uh but i treasure my independence i turned down a dozen opportunities to
join big washington lobbying firms where i could have traded my
relationships in trump world for millions of dollars
i did that in the 80s i have no interest in doing it
again so i have to rely on friends and supporters like you
patriots who know the truth and therefore any contribution at the stone
defensefund.com will be deeply appreciated while you're at it
however i want you to go to the infowars.com store
where the entire line of emric essential
oils and products are available now these are
the things that you would normally buy at the drug store
for your home the difference is you can get them in an
all natural format without additives without chemicals without other
carcinogen causing uh factors uh these are the very best all
natural products whether it is body wash mouthwash
uh suntan lotion bug spray uh these are highly tested all natural
household products available only at the infowars.com store
and this is a win-win you help finance the fight for freedom the fight for
truth the fight against the godless atheistic globalists
and you get the very best natural products that can be found so please
folks go to the website support us here
i'm roger stone victory or death
