Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the Info War.
We are 32 days out from this incredibly historic election.
And just about 20 minutes ago, the Senate voted 51 to 49.
Flake wasn't a flake and voted to send it to a final vote, so did one other Democrat
joining that establishment Republican.
And so now 30 hours roughly from now, about 5.45 tomorrow, Eastern time.
It will go to the full vote, and Info Wars will be live.
I'll be here starting at about 3 o'clock central, right through to the vote, right
around 4 o'clock central.
There obviously will be some major fireworks.
We're going to have reporters on the ground, I'm just going to leave it at that, NDC.
So look for live coverage from Info Wars tomorrow.
So tomorrow's news today, barring a terror attack, you've already seen Ryerson attacks,
barring a truck bomb, barring a mass shooting, you're going to see Cabernon confirmed along
these lines, 51-49, and you won't even need the vice president to come in and override
a deadlock, a stalemate, a tie.
This is a big deal.
Trump has not failed to get anything so far.
He's had nothing but hard fought success, and this will break their will to a great
extent.
That's why Soros groups have pledged that they're going to take direct action, that's
a CIA term for violence, that they're going to take direct action in NDC, perhaps emergency
campaign to stop Brett Cabernon, and they're the ones engaged in information warfare using
black propaganda.
That's the craft names of that, means deception, lies, we use white propaganda, the truth.
Propaganda just means your political views, promoting things you stand for, like the Second
Amendment.
I don't lie about the Second Amendment to promote it.
I don't lie about free market to promote it.
I don't lie about America to promote it.
I don't lie about the show to promote it.
The enemy though, they are in darkness, and now there's a bunch of new articles out today
saying that I am a terrorist.
That's right, ladies and gentlemen, the new headlines are that I am a information terrorist,
and so now they've expanded on past that.
In Wired Magazine, look at this, I'm now a terrorist.
Here's your headline, Brett Cabernon, the information terrorist trying to reshape America.
So now that they've silenced me on both of these platforms, they can move on to say I'm
a terrorist and need to be arrested.
Of course, you still got Tucker Carlson and mainstream news telling the truth.
They're gunning for him, never even got to this yesterday.
Only time we're not tomorrow's news today is when I'm covering myself.
I'm usually two, three days behind when Tim Cook attacks me or whatever, because I'm
not focused on me, but I have to do it because we're in the center of the fight.
Look at this, free speech evaporating in this country.
Tucker Carlson breaks down Google citizenship of info wars and internal documents they got
saying that I'm the number one enemy.
Project Veritas already got video of it, but why do you think Vice Presidents at Google
are saying Alex Jones is the enemy and now these are even higher level documents?
Why am I the enemy?
Because I'm not insane.
That's the only reason that I can't be bought.
The Chicoms are merging with Apple and Google and have put spy tech in everything for a
foreign takeover and information warfare.
And all you crazy people out there that hate my guts and have sided with the Chicoms, you're
fricking nuts.
You are the biggest dumbasses I've ever seen, okay?
You'll see who lasts last, you'll see, watch.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled
all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against
stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
You are listening to an InfoWars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex
Jones.
Thirty-two days, ladies and gentlemen, thirty-two days for the most historic election in world
history, the referendum on nationalism and freedom versus globalism.
And I think it's going to be a big fat juicy red wave, except we're up against a huge
seawall of election fraud.
So hold on to your seats and feel free to bite your fingernails because this is a cliff
hanger of cliff hangers with so much on the table.
I got friends, family, love the Super Bowl, love the World Series, they get really excited
about it.
They get butterflies, they get upset, and I'm just sorry.
Sports cannot compete with my family's future, your family's future, the chai-com globalist
ally with the unelected EU, trying to destroy our country, destroy our prosperity, and bring
in world government and take our free speech.
This is real warfare.
This is 21st century six-generational warfare.
Now, we are thirty-two days out, and you'll notice everything that you only heard here
about Chinese spy chips in the Google phones, dialing into everything in your house, stealing
your data.
No iPhone should be allowed within a mile of the Pentagon, within a mile of government
facilities, literally.
They have little receiver transmitters, transceivers, and you'll notice people thought I was like
a space haley in covering this last decade, that China's buying up Hollywood, China's
buying up the debt, China's got traders in our government, they plan a takeover, an industrial
economic takeover, because the CFR was writing books every month about it and publishing
magazines about it and drooling over it and rubbing their hands together like villains
do in criminology, not just in movies, where the villains got you hung up by your arms
and brags how his evil plan is going to work before he kills you, and that's what they
did.
And now their evil plan is out in the open, so we'll see what happens, but all the fools,
when all this comes out, we're going to remember who you are that ate it and abetted this and
you're going to pay, and then those of you that just tacitly supported it, you and your
families are going to be remembered as the traitorous scum you are.
So keep laughing, just keep laughing, you think I'm stupid going up against the system
when the system's evil and sold out to pure corruption, I call that sanity.
Not heroics, now we're not just 32 days out obviously, just about 30 minutes ago to be
precise, they passed in the Senate 51 to 49 along party lines with one Democrat voting
to send it to a final vote tomorrow and barring some type of really big stage event or chicanery,
that means they've got the votes and don't even need the tiebreaker of the vice president,
Mr. Pinch, so this is quite a time to be alive right now, and the Democrats are announcing
all these plans for violence, for attacks, 300 plus of them got arrested for screaming
and hitting and blocking things, notice Marco Rubio walked out over to the cameras we had
rolling and I said, hey, talk about censorship in America, not just in China, and he just
starts being rude so I got back in his face in a polite way.
The media all called for me to be totally banned from the Capitol, banned from the Senate
office buildings and said, see how bad he is, now Republicans see why we're banding.
I behaved on a scale of one to ten like a three, the Democrats are behaving like a
nine right now, I said, hey, I'm your friend, I appreciate you talking about China being
a threat, will you do something about censorship to conservatives, he's like, I don't know
who you are, and I said, fine, will you just, I was very polite, he can pull up hundreds
and hundreds of articles saying, Jones assaults Rubio, Jones gets in his face, Jones interrupts
the press conference, Jones interrupts him, no, I was there at the press conference, he
came out a side door, they don't show the full footage, I walked over to him, then the cameras
came over, and then he ignored me, but the point is I was there to get stuff done, I
was there because they were talking about me and the hearings, I don't just show up
at every one of these hearings like Amy Schumer and these Hollywood folks for no reason, I
could show up there right now, be a three ring circus, it might hurt Kavanaugh, I'm not
there, see, because I sit back and I think about what's best for the country, and I need
to go to that place in front of a hundred news cameras, literally that day, and talk
about the censorship in America and put it front and center for the president, you think
I think I'm gonna win this lawsuit against PayPal? Let me just tell you right now, I
don't think we are, we're on the right, but it doesn't matter, the lawsuit's been given
to the president and it details what's wrong and what we think the White House should do,
and believe me, you're gonna see action on all of it, because the NRA knows they're having
their banking targeted as well, so let me just tell her by something, you Democrats
think one step, you don't even play checkers, I think beyond chess, about what's right
to do, and I'm willing to sacrifice my name, my blood, my treasure, everything, because
there's no future anyway, we don't do it, but they're always thinking, oh look, Jones
is in trouble, Jones is being attacked, yeah, that's what I intend to do, I intend to engage
these people, because I believe that we're gonna have some victories, but even in my
destruction, if that's what God wants, we'll be a spectacle to draw attention to what's
happening and we will win, and that's why I was banned six weeks ago from the internet
in most areas, was because I'm ringing the alarm, and if you've got a watchman on the
parapet who's gonna ring the alarm, you send up your operatives before your main invasion
to grab them by the mouth and shove a knife into their spine, or into their throat, or
into their kidneys, and so I've already gotten the alarm out though, I already blew the horn,
already ring the bell, and now they're stabbing the living hell out of me politically, but
that's okay, because guess what, I already raised the alarm, you the audience, you raised
the alarm, you're beautiful, you realize the victory we've had, now there's many other
alarms need to be raised, and I want to stay on the fire as long as possible, but let me
tell you something, politically I'm like a fighter ace that's got a hundred airplanes
on the side of my plane that I've shot down and defeated thanks to your support, and you've
done the same thing, so guess what, I get blown up in this fight baby, I'm not a loser,
I'm a winner, and I want people to understand that because I don't want them if they're
successful in destroying info wars, I don't want you, guys queue up the vice president
saying that Google better stop Operation Dragonfly, I'm here to defeat them, I'm here because
I believe in you, so I don't want them turning it into a propaganda victory, if they set
me up or put me in prison or killed me or whatever, because they're in full attack
right now, this is a war people, and you know what, if your granddaddy didn't come home
from World War II, your dad or your mom doesn't think grandpa was a loser because he died,
he was a hero, see that, you have to take it away from them, that being demonized and
attacked by enemies of good is a failure, it's what you expect, and that's why I don't
want callers to call in and say oh you're doing a great job, we love you, I love you,
we already know that, I'm doing the bare minimum, I'm not facing prison like Tommy Robinson,
I didn't get beat up and six of my ribs broken like Rand Paul or Congressman's Colleges,
they want to take us there, I'm doing what she's supposed to do when a bunch of authoritarians
come down on you, so we'll get to the Democrats planning violence, if this vote passes, they're
saying violence to block it, Soros is in full attack mode, up on his hind legs, but let's
go to the vice president, warning Google, here it is, as we gather here, a new consensus
on China is rising across America, more business leaders are thinking beyond the next quarter,
and thinking twice before diving in to the Chinese market, if it means turning over there
intellectual property or abetting Beijing's oppression, but more must follow suit.
For example, Google should immediately end development of the Dragonfly app that will
strengthen the Communist Party's censorship and compromise the privacy of Chinese customers.
There's a consensus rising, and you see, I got corrected last night by a very smart individual,
we said, Jones, you're not the guy hitting the bar bar, they said, we see you as the
test pilot, we know, you already carry the consensus, we all know, you're willing to
hit it and break the ice, keep it up, press the attack, you know what I said, I said yes
sir, hear that, that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked
the place, and what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in, go to faketv.com and discover
a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles
away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful, faketv.com.
Healthcare reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan,
keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the healthcare
system has become a challenge.
Control your own healthcare costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance, it is an association of self-pay patients who
unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs, neighbor
helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
It's an o-brainer, a big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine
disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon?
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey, or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn
American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans
offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com, that's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the
one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've
sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot
Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot
Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth.
To give you just what you need in the morning, you can even choose to start your morning
healthier with the immune support blend, infused with a powerful blend to support your immune
response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine
at InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Oh, guess what's happening in Brazil?
He was already in first place in most polls, Balasaro, but after he got stabbed and barely
survived, he's leading by huge double digit margins set to be the George Washington of
Brazil Second Amendment, everything.
Oh, my goodness, George Soros and globalists are really, really, really scared right now.
Let's continue here.
You've got Trump even in skewed Gallup polls and others, Rasmussen, you name it, at 51
up from 45 just a few weeks ago.
Yes, that's blown up in their face.
The whole Cabinon witch hunt and the added gravy of Soros funded harpies that no man
would want to get within a thousand feet of running around screaming and yelling at everyone
saying, you're a rapist.
They played the clip yesterday at Mitch McConnell in the airport and they're screaming, rapist,
rapist, rapist.
See now, he's a rapist.
Oh, and here's another article on Rogerport.com.
Make them scared, cite post sex claims against male students that aren't true.
Remember the New York Times last year had a couple of op-eds saying, it's time to lie.
Of course, they'd always lied, but they were saying, oh, Trump's so bad, let's all lie.
Yay.
As if you weren't lying before calling all conservatives Nazis, some failed idiot ideology
that destroyed Europe.
It's like saying I'm in the Tooth Fairy Union or something.
I'm in the Americana prosperity and freedom movement.
That's what I want.
I want you to be free and smart and empowered because I don't want a bunch of losers around
me.
I'm not a globalist that wants a bunch of losers.
So I feel bigger than you.
She's seeing you not doing well makes me feel bad.
It bombs my high.
I'm high on life.
So Trump's on the same bandwidth.
He's on the same frequency.
And now you've got Kelly Paul coming out and saying, listen, Cory Booker, stop calling
for people to hook cost folks.
My husband had six ribs broken his lung punctured, his police got shot.
We have been terrorized.
We have lived in fear.
I sleep with a gun by my bedside.
And what did I say a month ago when Twitter lied and said, we're suspending Jones for
calling for violence into the media?
I said, if you're a member of Congress or their family being doxxed by Antifa or ICE,
they're calling for coming to your house and killing you since then it's been all over
the news.
But then they were, we had PIs and other groups giving us intel on what they were planning.
Now it's all over the news.
And you get next month's news today, they're calling for violence into publicly, but nothing
like now it's just exponential on the Richter scale, parabolic.
And they said, oh no, Jones wants to kill reporters with battle rifles, but never showed
the clip.
And I go back to that a lot because of this, think of the corruption and the evil to have
every major broadcast, ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, MSNBC in unison say Jones says, go out and
kill reporters when it's their people calling for violence.
And I said, you better have a battle rifle next to your bed.
Because if Antifa comes to your house with shotguns or with rifles, you don't want a
handgun.
You need to be able to have a riot shotgun, 15, 18 round shotgun.
That's what I personally got to an instant access safe right there.
Bam, riot shotgun, baby.
And then just get ready to go to Valhalla or wherever it is you rats go, you come to
my house.
You know, I got the shotgun so I don't kill people through the walls.
Those idiots have all got 8047s and 223s.
That's not good for houses.
I guess they don't care about kids.
The point is obviously that's what they target.
I said, you better have your rifles by your beds.
And it was so true.
And it was a warning to Congress and to federal officers to protect yourselves.
That's why they took me off because it was the truth and it was compelling.
And I showed clips of 15 or 16 different people outside the White House saying we're
going to kill the Republicans.
We're coming to your houses to kill you.
I showed Antifa saying we're going to come and we're going to kill you.
And now what does Senator Paul's wife say?
They say they're coming to kill me.
They already tried to kill Scalise.
They call us in debt threat.
I sleep with a gun beside me.
This is out of control.
Democrats stop calling for violence.
And how do they respond?
They respond with more calls for violence.
All I said is what's common sense.
If you don't have, they've got affordable shotguns at all, 12 shells now.
If you don't have that by your bed, you are insane because they will hit at night.
And believe me, they have got not just the methods you see, that's the decoys.
They've got real terror groups, Hezbollah and MS-13, work for the Democrats and the
deep state, ex-auxiliary killers.
It's a breakaway group of leftists in the CIA, just like they used the mafia and the
invasion of Sicily and then Italy in World War II.
They use these subgroups, the trash of the planet Earth, is who's really going to be
coming.
I'm going to say it again.
MS-13 is going to target Congress, so the Democrats call them God's children and defend
them.
MS-13, MS-13 have already been given their hit list.
And who else did I just tell you have been given their hit list?
Hezbollah.
Obama made a deal, and Hezbollah has real sleeper cells, not like Al Qaeda.
Hezbollah is the military of Iran, and the Democrats are so insane they've allowed the
infiltration and ex-filtration back and forth of Iranian National Guard operating in Hezbollah
networks in every city with a list.
Each Hezbollah member has a list of at least three houses they're supposed to hit.
I'm going to release all this right now.
Even most the FBI doesn't know this.
But 32 days out, I'm going to let you know.
They have warmed up ready MS-13 and Hezbollah for you and your family.
You're a governor, a state legislator, a conservative pastor.
I'm telling you, I have to raise the alarm now, this is why they're trying to shut me
down, that you have to be ready.
Notice what they banned me for, and they had to lie about it, was the warning.
And now, Sorosfundedmoveon.org, Bretton's Direct Action in D.C., PREP's emergency campaign
to stop Brett Gabinon.
They say they're going to shut things down, they're going to get violent, and Antifa is
all over Twitter, they're allowed to go on there, Jack Dorsey lets them go on and say
we're coming to your house to kill you.
We're going to kill the president, we're going to kill the vice president, we're going to
kill this hit list of ice members, we're going to kill all these members of Congress, we're
going to kill the conservative Supreme Court, we're going to kill talk show host, we're
going to kill Sean Hannity, we're going to kill Mike Levin, we're going to kill, kill,
kill, kill, kill.
I won't even say who else's names they say, you probably imagine.
But there's legal reasons I don't.
And if you don't think they don't want to kill you, remember Larry Grathwald, Green
Beret, they tried to recruit him in the underground, he got into the highest levels, they would
sit around and talk about all these plans in the 70s, well now they had Obama in charge
for eight years and they got the whole thing and stay behind networks in place.
Look, a lot of them have been rolled up, I can tell you that because they know it now,
so I can tell you I know from high level sources, a lot of these people fell down and hit their
heads lately.
That's the other reason the Democrats are so scared, you know, MS-13 and the Hezbollah
groups and then some of the other hit groups the Democrats had hired, they all got scared
and blew the whistle, those that didn't, they're sleeping.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature, expand your horizons with
the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos on the market at Slingbo.com.
Slingbo products are compact and models start from just 1798, they're perfect for your
bug out bag or storing in your vehicle, give yourself and your loved ones the excitement
and tradition of Slingbo, a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive
survival tool, feel the thrill only at Slingbo.com.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn
American made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans
offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit Gusset.com, that's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the
one you're listening to, in Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just
encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from m4store.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at m4store.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, m4warslife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us, so we need your support.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products, that's why we're bringing you a brand new
version of one of the newest, fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with
an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, is going to become one of our fellow
m4wars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green DX track and Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up, all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstores.com.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt
justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and
why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us and if you spread
the word about our articles and videos at infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand
up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at infowars.com right now, and we're still able to operate the shopping
cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Global Spain will win.
This is InfoWars Darker Sour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
We are back live broadcasting worldwide.
By the way, the things I covered earlier, I've mentioned a little bit before in Soros'
group, Media Matters, you know, said, oh, how ridiculous, Jones claims that the Democrats
are working with MS-13.
The Democrats, one trillion percent, have been caught all over the Southwest working
with the Coyote smugglers with drug gangs, you name it.
I mean, what do you think Democrats do?
Give me a break and grow up.
And that's why they've been protecting MS-13 and saying they're God's children and say,
how dare Trump talk bad about MS-13, who mainly targets Hispanics and kills people in satanic
sacrifices to take their energy.
Now, if you're a new listener, you think that sounds insane, just type in MS-13, conducts
ritual murders, and then you can read about it, how they get, they believe satanic power
from it.
And the younger, the better.
And then the thousands of men and camouflage, many of them armed on horseback coming across
the country.
This is globalism collapsing nation-states.
This is the assault we're under.
This is their plan.
And now it's come out, what we already told you years ago, that Apple is implanting wireless
chips that break into everything in your home, in your business, in the government.
And then Google cars drive around with antennas and they scoop up the data and work with Google
and work with Apple in tandem to data mine the information.
And of course, that's now come out mainstream news that the AI project, as I told you months
ago, in China with the Chinese military is not just Apple.
Apple is involved.
And so is Facebook.
And they're all doing it.
And Tim Cook has bragged, that's why I call him the most evil man in the world, the most
dangerous man in the world.
Because he's a little non-assuming, non-threatening, you know, trendy engineer who is in all these
speeches saying we want censorship, we want to make the world like China.
We're going to curate out anybody we disagree with, oh, that has five stars and a couple
million downloads and their apps number one in news.
So you're going to take care of that and get rid of what's number one.
And us in a contract paying to have the app placed, paying to have it approved, already
had dozens of other apps in my name, three apps that we built over the years.
This one was great, Info Wars official.
You delete it and then say, well, because, you know, it's just horrible, it's evil.
Really, I don't run slave factories in China.
I'm not aiding and abetting all this stuff, but see, you make me the bad guy.
So this full video is up on infowars.com.
You know all this, but Apple employees and Google employees don't.
They're starting to wake up.
The White House is awake.
The Pentagon's really awake.
And this is real modern espionage.
This is real election meddling.
This is real takedown of this country.
And now the president's talking about it and very close to action, and his issue is he's
calling these guys the White House in a few weeks.
Why not just start indicting these people?
And don't think Trump won't do it just because it had been done before.
It's outrageous.
These people are crazy.
They've gotten away with bloody murder.
So that's why Cook thinks he's got a normalcy bias that he just thinks all this is normal.
He's going to get away with this forever.
No, you're not, buddy.
So it is a honor.
I'm going to play it in a moment.
It is a honor to be banned and to be attacked and to have him lead the charge to have me
banned because that means I'm over the target.
We got a bunch of special guests and a ton.
Again, it's going to the full vote tomorrow.
I think Kavanaugh is going to get in and with 51-49, you're going to see the same party
lines again.
We have the vice president.
If we need it as a tiebreaker, that means we've got two extra votes right now.
They're planning violence.
They're pledging violence.
Second hour, we'll get into that with Clyde Lewis coming up and more.
But first, let's air part of this critical video.
Tim Cook is the most dangerous man in the world.
It's on infowars.com.
We have been banned because of our criticism of this.
This is the big issue.
And this is what I need your help getting, taking the article at infowars.com and posting
it on your site and getting it out to everyone.
Here it is.
I'm here to do two different things.
Number one, I have a message to Tim Cook, the head of Apple, the largest corporation
in the world.
And number two, I have a warning to the world.
Under careful consideration in the last few years, I privately came to the understanding
and analysis that Tim Cook is the most dangerous living person on this planet.
Tim Cook is a clear and present danger to free societies and free peoples everywhere.
I'm first going to give the world a very serious warning about Tim Cook and about Apple, and
then I've got some words for Mr. Cook.
Now, how did I come to the understanding that Tim Cook is such a classical tyrant?
I came that understanding from his own speeches and his own statements that I'm about to
show you here in a moment, both the articles and the video and where you can find it in
context.
So it was that realization that Tim Cook and his cohorts are really seriously bad actors
using leftist camouflage to carry out their operations that made me make the decision
to really declare war on the authoritarianism of Apple and Google starting about three months
ago.
And within one month of that happening, those groups worked in concert to basically cauterize
info wars that they see as a disease from the rest of the Internet.
But in truth, we were simply trying to raise the alarm.
So they're using info wars as the straw man or as the first domino, the scapegoat, the
test case to do this, but this affects every man, woman and child on this planet, not just
people in China or the United States.
Now let's first start looking at an interview he gave last weekend to Vice News.
And then remember, I'm unable to go on YouTube or these other platforms and even counter
what's being said about me.
So that's the next level of censorship where you are silenced so they can then lie about
you and get away with it.
How did you decide to ban Alex Jones?
What users want from us and what we've always provided them is a curated platform.
We think that what the user wants is someone that does review these apps.
Someone that does review the podcast.
Someone that on like Apple News, where a human is selecting the top stories.
And that's what we do.
We don't take a political stand.
We're not leaning one way or the other.
You can tell that from the stuff on the app store and in podcasts, etc.
You'll see everything from very conservative to very liberal.
And that's the way I think it should be.
But at what point were you like, okay, that's it, Alex Jones has to go?
You know, we get into a singular kind of event, but I think there's enough there that reasonable
people could agree that if you're going to curate, that that should be all.
Now in a moment, I'm going to get to cook publicly making statements, giving speeches,
calling for governments to implement more censorship and helping China carry out draconian
controls against their oppressed people.
But let's look at the million dollar word he used, curate.
If you look at the definition, it means that an expert of knowledge decides what you will
see, what you will eat, what you will smell, what you will do.
A controlled virtual reality, a museum.
So he's saying he's a curator.
He's not censoring when he cuts somebody off from the marketplace.
No, no, no.
He's taking a bad apple out of the bunch to save the rest of the apples.
That's what Hitler said.
In fact, Hitler famously saw himself as an architect of society and as a curator and
wanted to build a new Berlin, the capital of the world, that was a giant museum worshiping
Nazism and he saw himself and Albert Speer as the top curators.
But we're not really talking about curation here, are we?
We're talking about another C-word and that word is cauterize.
When you believe that there's a disease in the body politic of globalism and Tim Cook's
authoritarianism, where he's officially moved to China, we'll get to that in a moment.
If you see someone as a disease, you cauterize it with a big, hot, burning, metal object
into the wound to kill the infection.
We'll be right back and liberty is the disease, individualism, you name it.
I dare cook, say I'm the bad guy.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative,
in Full Wars Life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and
Omega-3's found in our high quality, ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3's, Ultimate Crill Oil can help
you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain
cognitive function and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the
benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified, high quality Crill Oil concentrate,
paired with our Ultimate Fish Oil or used separately.
It's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil, now available
at InfowarsStore.com.
Stress is a natural part of life.
Work, family, friends and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your
mood.
Don't let life weigh you down, Happys is a powerful mood and stress support formula
that has your back against life's daily inconveniences made with ancient ingredients used for thousands
of years.
Happys can help you take back the day.
With our powerhouse formula, Happys can be an important part of your daily supplement
routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than
ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, Happys helps support
during stress, promotes overall well-being and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happys from
InfowarsStore.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or
to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright
lights every day but thanks to super male vitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have
that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against
the chemicals in the food and water, to fight back against the modern day lifestyle with
the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy
and drive to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get super male vitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of super male vitality.
So I want you to experience super male vitality before it's too late.
Unleash the super male and you.
Super male vitality.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with
even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
InfowarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different super foods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone
broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also
supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric
root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support
your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at InfowarsStore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I know you loved me a long time ago and even now in my life you still won't hear my
heart beat, but darling this time that your memories died when you hold me tonight.
Don't close your eyes.
Welcome back Alex Jones here, 32 days out, you can just feel the energy, evil is in major
death rows.
That doesn't mean that there's some perfect utopia and the evil still won't be around,
but we go through cycles.
Everyone knows this, historians, political scientists, you go through cycles.
And we are in the bottom hopefully of the decadence and are going to start our way
back up and the globalists are trying to suppress that hunger worldwide for freedom
and for justice, but the spirit's rising.
Now I'm not going to get to this full video report because I've got so much to get to
and a bunch of special guests, but it's movie important.
If you're a listener and you're like, wow Alex Jones, you know, talking about spy chips
and the Apple phones and China and Google and AI and working with China, but not the
US government and all the censorship and Tim Cook promoting censorship.
And now the president and vice president are talking about how it's all really China.
Now the Democrats are in bed with the chai comms because it's the truth.
But if you cover it, Michael Savage four years ago wrote a book about China taking over the
US.
China didn't find out that it was about to ship to the, to the stores and no one would
take the book.
Now see, most people shut up when that happens.
Michael Savage didn't shut up.
I don't shut up either.
And again, it's not because I'm some hero.
I'm not going to sit here and have the chai comms take control of what I do.
You try to shut me up.
I know that's where I got to go.
So I'll play a few more minutes of this and it gets really powerful at the end, but it's
got all the documents, all the articles, all the proof, all the video clips, just get this
article out.
Alex Jones, Tim Cooks, the most dangerous living person on the planet, because I've
got a stack of news here where Google and Apple engineers, you name it, are coming out
and saying, we're leaving the company.
They're evil.
They're doing stuff far worse than you know.
They were waiting for our leadership, your leadership.
So call Congress, call the White House, call talk radio, the get the buzz going to cover
a Bloomberg business week that they got spy chips, think of the lawsuits against Apple
for this.
As patriots, we don't go looking for trouble, but listen, big dogs got to get off the porch
here or Tim Cooks going to steal your birthright.
I don't care what Tim Cook does to me.
As long as at the end of the day, that little piece of crap knows he messed with the wrong
people.
We got to protect our children and our future from people like him and we're going to do
it.
Everybody else just better get out of the way.
Here's the deal.
We've got the will.
We've got the birthright.
We've got the strength.
We don't need to run anything.
We already got it, but good people forget that when you stand down, it only lets the
evil run things.
So I'm telling good men and women of every race, color, and creed, if you love God,
you love justice, you got God.
You got the birthright.
So stand up and stop acting like they run the show and stop letting them guilt you into
bowing down.
They don't have a conscience.
They know you've got a conscience and they're trying to program that conscience.
So become aware of that.
How dare them tell you you're a bad person when you're not and they know full well they're
consciously evil.
Stop caring what they say and do the opposite.
Get in their face.
You think I care when they have some event calling for my censorship called the fake news
of, you know, Alex Jones and Donald Trump and their rhetoric and how to shut them down
and I march into the middle of that and a couple hundred people are booing and hissing
and spitting on me.
You think I care what a bunch of brainwashed slaves think.
They look like a bunch of escaped people out of a mental institution.
I felt sorry for them actually.
You think I care those cowards put those little, you know what, eating grins on their faces
like they're confident.
They're not confident.
They're the bottom of the barrel.
They're the devil's rejects.
They come from bad people, but you know what, they think if they suppress us they'll finally
be somebody and if you let them run your life and if you let them control your life, you
deserve what they do to you.
You know, I'm not going to get the rest of the cook thing.
It's one of them.
It's a very important video.
Haven't gotten all the clips and things that are in it yet.
It's on infowars.com.
David Knight played it earlier with his great transmission, 8am to 11am and I'll get to
more of it later.
We got Clyde Lewis coming up, really smart cookie who protected the rise and attack years
ago as the articles approve it.
He's been saying he believes something like the anthrax attack would come very, very soon.
Boy has it comes.
We'll look into that next hour, but let me just read you a few of these headlines here
just to add to the whole Tim Cook thing.
Study.
91% of Apple contributions went to Democrats.
Tim Cook says, oh, we have conservatives.
We have liberals.
We curate and show you, yo, you show us the weekly standard in neocons, the Trotskyites.
Okay.
Thank you, Tim Cook.
Okay, Tim Cook has the nerve to tell you, he's going to show you, you know, we even
had a link to the RSS feed on infowars.com for years and millions of people subscribe
to that on iPhones or any other Apple device.
They have a hard coat now as a test of banning URLs.
That's the next level where you try to click on it.
So we remove the link to it on Mac devices and it won't even let you go to our RSS feed.
It takes you to Google, I mean, to Apple news.
Same thing.
And they're all in bed together and they're a group of arrogant people put in charge
because they'll carry out criminal racketeering.
And so I keep going back to that because we're in a war with the Chai comms and the EU, but
they couldn't wipe their rear ends if it wasn't for DARPA and the globalists that built the
system that has now been handed over to them to bring down the country.
Oh, but Tim Cook says he doesn't collude with the government.
But there's Tim Cook with Zuckerberg and Obama and Eric Schmidt, all the rest of the dastardly
folks, all toasting their technocracy over here in your family.
Well, a lot of other people got arrogant and thought they'd dominate the West, the Holy
Grail, the New Atlantis.
Just because you hijacked the New Atlantis' technology, dumbass Cook, doesn't mean you
are that.
So we'll see what happens to you, Sean.
Get ready.
Because you'll always be a little devil, worshiping, hunchback, buzzard.
And I say it's open season on your lies politically in a peaceful way.
What is it that Thulsa Doom said?
They're all drowned in lakes of their own lies.
Now, look at these headlines.
Man who's been arrested for doxing GOP senators allegedly threatened to also do to their children.
Oh, that's always a lepid's name.
They're all planning this violence, there's all these arrests, Amy Schumer that literally
all of her shows and movies fail, she's a total joke, all the Hollywood scum stomping
around, don't even know how to take over media operations because they're all too stupid
to get in front of the cameras and talk, so they always do some little stunt, a mindless
chant because they're followers.
Next hour is coming up.
We'll also take calls today with Clyde Lewis is on with us.
Here's the deal.
If you don't buy products from Soros and Globals, they're going to win.
But that's not even the reason to do it.
These are great products and we have the new Hapies with the Ashwagandha root, the Rodeola,
Rose root, the passionflower herb, green tea leaf and licorice root.
Now, a lot of folks are trying this and out of the gates is 50% off as our newest product
because I want you to try it and see how good it is, but it's not a depressant, it's not
a stimulant.
It just smooths you out.
It is great for after work when you can't dial back, but at the same time, you don't
want to take a depressant.
It's really something else from Mother Nature.
You can go read about all the studies and the rest of it, but it's concentrated.
It's amazing.
Infowarsstore.com, Infowarslife.com, the last run of X2, the purest deep earth crystal
source of iodine out there.
It is our last run of it, even though it's a very, very best seller, I mean, total we
sell.
Total, it's the most profitable thing we sell.
What we sell the most of is brain force, plush, but we make our own money on that.
The point is, we need to fund this operation, X2 last run.
And speaking of brain force plus, just like it took me a couple of days to take the X2
special down, so we're getting close to selling out.
Brain force plus, we don't get another shipment until the middle of December.
If I keep it up there at the sales rate, it's going to be gone.
But I think it'll just be extended through the weekend and that's absolutely yet.
So it's 40% off brain force plus the amazing new tropic experience, why it's one of the
top selling tropics on the market and a third of the cost of leading competitors.
Glory to thousands of 5-star reviews at infowarstore.com and secret 12, the amazing vitamin B12 rated
by BuzzFeed when they tested it as the highest rate in the country, they couldn't believe
it.
Ha ha, infowarstore.com, infowarslive.com or triple A, two, five, three, three, one, three,
nine.
But whatever you could do, tell people about that local radio station or TV station or
cable station because this is the most censored broadcast in the world, they've all heard
my name, so tell them tune in.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
This is infowarslife.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowarslife created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses
a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support
your body.
Using it for a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into
a delicious concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with
vitamin mineral fusion today, available at infowarsstore.com.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's
Alex Jones.
Well, he's host of one of the biggest syndicated radio shows in the country, Ground Zero, comes
on right before George Norrin, the premier radio network.
And Clyde Lewis has arrived to shotgun with us for two hours, we're going to cover the
waterfront.
The reason I wanted to get him on is I remember him predicting that there'd be another anthrax
or ricin, I always say it wrong, ricin attack, ricin and ricin and now you've seen that happen.
And then I remember McAfee when he escaped Beliche, Shane Hezbollah's being snuck in,
there's thousands of them, they're cooking up massive factories of ricin and I didn't
think he was lying, but two years later it came out Hezbollah, 4,000 plus Hezbollah
or ricin.
I mean, ricin folks is deadly neurotoxin obviously because you can grow it, I guess on ricin
and anybody can basically make it, the problem is you'll probably kill yourself in the process.
And so he has been really hammering that he thinks there'd be a bio attack, even when
I was on with him like a month ago, he was said a couple of times and he's a smart cookie.
So we're going to get his take on that because that kind of blipped on the radar and in my
experience when a terror attacks real, it gets no attention.
When it's hyped or provocateur, then it's absolutely promoted from the rooftops everywhere
and there's always some legislation they're trying to pass, but we'll get applied Lewis's
expert take on that syndicate radio host, author, researcher, filmmaker, actor, very,
very, very accomplished guy.
He'll be joining us coming up for two hours here today and then I'm trying to get the
guy on.
We had on like a month ago who got banned off of, when his books hit number one, got banned
off Amazon for misogyny, it wasn't misogyny, it's just how to act like a man.
Maybe a little bit of an extreme version of it and a lot of women like that actually,
that's what they want, but the point is a lot of women don't like that.
He now got banned off PayPal and now he's just going, he's just shutting down, he's just
going off the air.
So that's where they want this to go and it's very, very dangerous.
It's why sued PayPal.
The idiot New York Times and others like, it's his only payment processor.
He'll be shut down.
There's hundreds.
Here's the problem.
PayPal strategically has bought up most of them and they got a big deal going through where
they'll have almost all of them.
So that's when we were like, whoa, we got to bring this to the president's attention.
So in my briefings that are going to the president this weekend, the briefings will be done from
a top law firm and it's packaged in with our lawsuit to show we're serious and then some
other ideas for some other law firms, the president takes that serious and you know,
it's also hundreds of newspapers.
So that will get some attention.
So all the left and everybody's like, ah, you're suing in San Francisco.
You're going to lose our, we're in a band you can serve as we're going to run you in
the ground.
We're going to totally shut you all down.
Just keep laughing because the lawsuit is to draw attention dumbasses and I'm not talking
to our radio listeners or TV viewers.
These leftists just don't get it.
They don't get me spending my own money to educate people to say no to the corrupt system
because I'm not a conservative.
I'm a libertarian, Renaissance patriot who loves Jesus Christ and I want justice and
I love little black kids, little brown kids, little white kids.
I love everybody and I just want to have a future and I see Trump being attacked by
every side because he is the president trying to be the president.
I mean, he's perfect, no, but you know a man by his enemies and let me tell you, Trump's
got the enemies.
He's got the pedigree politically and I'm totally behind it.
And that's why they know that I've got to be destroyed because see, they know they really
can't intimidate me, but see, they want to intimidate you.
They want you.
I can't tell you how many other talk show hosts I know didn't come running like a Clyde Lewis
or George Norrie to get me on when I got banned, but we're regular guests who just won't even
talk to us.
Oh my God, that's the instinct of slaves.
You might as well stick your head between your legs and kiss your butt goodbye.
If you've got that instinct, man, North Korea is the place for you.
God, don't you get it?
You've got to have the instinct to say no to this.
You've got to have, you know what happened?
Facebook threatened to ban him if he had me on.
I heard about it inside baseball.
He said, oh, I want Alex Jones back on because of that.
That's the instinct to save the country and the world.
We'll be back.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Why aren't you brave enough to talk to us and exchange with us?
Don't you wave your hand at me.
I wave my hand at you.
When you grow up, I'll be right behind you.
When I grow up, I'll be right behind you.
You grow up.
You grow up.
You grow up.
How dare you talk to women that way?
How dare you talk to women that way?
How dare you talk to women that way?
I don't know man it could be I mean you know people are here right now and there's a lot of stuff going on and you know this one we've got a particular case where we've got to operate based on the information we have available to us.
The way everybody's reacting to this now you know every Supreme Court Justice Heron coming forward that's going to be going on after this.
Well we have one a few months ago and it didn't work out that way you know they're all different.
This particular case is a spring vote.
Well it also touches on an issue that's very sensitive and obviously very important in this country and it needs to be handled in an appropriate way.
So there's a single shred of corroborating evidence. But you said handling an appropriate way how should it have been better?
The gathering of information I mean if we make decisions based on information you know we've interviewed over 150 people over two decades and not a single one has corroborated any of this.
If there had been a single shred of corroboration I'd be the first one out there. I'm still reading through the documents.
I agree with Marco Rubio there. That there's not a shred of evidence if there was then great.
But if you're a radio listener you can hear it. A team of viewers can hear it and see it.
There are these anti-man hyped up Soros funded women screaming and howling like there's an island of Medusas or something or harpies fighting over the one eye.
And the way they're going F-U to Oren Hatch we bleeped it out and they just says you'll grow up while they're saying F-U and they go how dare you speak to a woman as such.
They're like going back to ancient England or something where you know the total chivalry of the not even speaking to a woman unless spoken to or whatever.
They're going back to this I guess even Elizabethan where open the door for me and I wear white gloves and you do what I say.
But no no no they're just screaming harpies F-U F that you know rape rape rape and he's like grow up how dare you.
The polls show it. This is backfired on a big time. Clyde Lewis joins us for the balance the next two hours of ground zero radio weeknights right before coast to coast AM comes on.
And so I guess that's like 10 o'clock at night I've been on there many times listen to it many many times. And so Clyde Lewis is here groundzeromedia.org while he's still there at Clyde Lewis there on Twitter.
But I wanted to get him back on to talk about currently what's going on the hysteria 51 to 49 for cloture left the Senate they're going to vote tomorrow at around five o'clock Eastern we're going to be here covering it.
And the internet only transmission will sit on satellites ready on TV but it's going to be commercial free basically so left some promos the front the back we're going to have this live coverage an hour before the vote.
Right through the vote we're going to have crew on the ground in DC with live feeds.
So be ready for all of that tomorrow as well and info wars dot com and news wars dot com live coverage but Clyde this segment let's get into the general climate.
The Democrats calling for civil emergency COG or an expert on that.
And then I want to next segment get into your prediction of Ryerson your prediction of a bio attack you've written about you've talked about and why you thought it was about to happen and has now happened and what you think going on there great to have you with us.
It's great to be here Alex thank you so much for the opportunity.
Well let's dive into it. I mean what is your take on Kavanaugh what is your take on just the hysteria the calls for violence against Republicans I mean I know you're kind of like I am kind of a nonpartisan guy.
But this is really scary.
Yeah it is really scary and I was actually last night talking about something called the Satan bomb.
And what I talk about is the idea of this country leaving its morals aside and literally just throwing itself on the altar of evil for the sake of putting forward an agenda.
And this is how desperate people are.
It's really sad to see this. I had said that the Arch of Bale which was this Palmyra arch that was the 3D printed by a digital archaeology company had been erected on the day before the judicial setting hearings and the idea that perhaps what this arch represents was the very thing that they were
actually in those hearings such as well it was the Arch of Bale in Palmyra which is in Syria that was actually brought down by ISIS and this group decided they wanted to make a replica of it.
They wanted to tour it. They put it all over.
They first sent it to New York. They sent it to Trafalgar Square. After it was erected in Trafalgar Square in England someone decided to erect a demon called Pizzuzu which of course is a familiar demon to those people who see the movie The Exorcist.
They erected Pizzuzu on the Queen's Library just down the street from this arch.
And I was thinking to myself how peculiar is it that they do this. This is some sort of priest craft or black magic that's being done.
And I totally agree. Let me just stop you there because I know we're going to go here.
But the globalists are obsessed with ancient Babylonian, Assyrian occultism.
And when you talk about that particular demon they translated that in Ghostbusters into Zool and that's actually the one that they're worshiping in the movie and they make a joke and it brings your destruction and it brings world destruction and they envision Stay Puff Marshmallow Man and so that's what pops up.
But that's what these globalists are into.
And it's funny you raised that because you've had the major witchcraft events with thousands of witches trying to kill Trump and even Hollywood involved so they really believe they're getting empowered by something.
Well and you're the pioneer actually with actually revealing the horned owl at the Bohemian Grove which of course is a representation of Moloch.
And Moloch of course is also another way of describing the horned god Bale.
And what Bale represents significantly is the, or specifically what it represents is sexual perversion, baby sacrifice, all these things that they did.
It was a horned god that they would put a child in the arms of this horned god and they would pull a lever and then the baby would drop into a fire much like what you see at the cremation of care.
Let's be clear when the Jews got captured in different captivity by the Assyrians and then by the Babylonians and others.
They then later adopted some of this at least some classes in it.
And so that's where you get all of this Babylon mystery religion coming into Christianity coming into Europe.
I mean that's just the archeological history of that.
So Ghostbusters seems like a funny movie, but what they're actually showing you in an archetype is actually what the devil worshipers are into.
Right.
And so when you have an arch being set up before the testimony given with Ford Kavanaugh and you know that everything they're talking about has to deal with sexual perversion, abortion, all of these things, baby killing.
I mean it all seems to come together.
And what's interesting is one of the first points that were made was I think it was a White House, Sheldon White House said somebody in fact he said, do you know what the devil's triangle is?
And of course we all know that there's this place out in Bermuda or whatever.
But no, they were referring to what would be a sexual menage  trois, if you will.
And I just thought, wow, that seals it right there.
They're talking about all of this, including some sort of perversion.
Sex magic.
Yes, sex magic.
It's exactly what it is.
It is sex magic.
And what is even more frightening is that the ricin attacks also has sort of a cult significance as when ricin was sent to the president, sent to Ted Cruz's office, it was done on a day where the moon had entered into Gemini.
And the twins' names are Pollux and Castor.
Ricin is made from castor beans.
And I thought that was also significant.
And also the day they apprehended the suspect, William Clyde III from Logan, Utah, there was an incident in Georgia where someone had beheaded 12 goats and their heads were floating in the Chattahoochee River in Georgia.
So a lot of weird devil type of activity going on.
And again, it sounds like insane because we're not insane, but the globalists are into the occult.
Clyde Lewis is an amazing investigator.
We're going to come back and look at the ricin attacks straight ahead.
M4Wars.com, NewsWars.com, tomorrow's news today.
Security is a mindset.
And fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com.
Available at Amazon Books.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sown American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit Gusset.com.
That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
Just like our information is game-changing, our products are game-changing.
And Survival Still X2 is the pure iodine.
No one else has this.
From deep earth, crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get.
It's the good halogen.
But instead, they hammer you with the bad halogens.
Fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Your true selenium goes with it like a horse of carriage.
Selenium is an electrochemical.
It's being used as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together.
We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself.
Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff.
Filter your water.
Yeah, I find myself selling water filters.
Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run, it can be six months a year until we get more.
This is the last run it looks like.
SurvivalShortX2 at M4WordsTour.com or M4WordsLife.com or AAA 2533139.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
M4Words is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party.
Leftist CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future and we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at M4Words.com
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at M4WordsTour.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and the Global Spain win.
This is M4Words Darker Sour. We hear your support. I'm counting on you.
I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.
Thomas Jefferson. Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
We're going to go full steam. Aim for the flat top.
One so hard.
We neutralized it. You know what that means? A complete particle reversal.
And we have the tools. We have talent. It's mill time.
Ray, this looks extraordinarily bad. I don't know. What?
Look out!
We're showing you this. We're going to pull up the part I had on the YouTube over there where it shows the archway.
And it's an acrylic archway in Ghostbusters. And then it shows the pyramid behind it.
And if you go to Syria, that's what they actually built. And this was a gateway they believed that the devil came through.
And they called it Zuzu or Zool. So you go see Ghostbusters. You're like, oh, it's a movie. It's made up.
What is this? I'm going to come in there. I'm going to pull it up myself. Sorry.
But I didn't even know Clyde Lewis would, there it is, would go to this.
Now let's pull up the arch. The Democrats just rebuilt again.
Because when you understand they're crazy, they believe they're getting this evil power.
And they see Kavanaugh that's anti-abortion and Trump and all this pro-human stuff.
That's why they're flipping out. That's why they're going crazy.
And so it's very astute that you brought this up.
Because look, I'm not into the occult. I don't believe in all this stuff. They do.
Like Soros is admittedly in all the spirit cooking and Alistair Crowley stuff.
So Clyde, I'm glad you brought all this up because this is really central.
And we can make jokes about it and I make jokes about it, but it's not funny.
They're at Bohemian Grove. A lot of the Republican leadership, not anymore, more and more they don't go.
Are there worshipping, you know, they call it an owl, call it a bull, doesn't matter.
There's a platform where they burn a kid and they say, this is Mollick.
And they go, oh, you're an idiot, Jones. Mollick is a bull. It doesn't matter.
They call it an owl. It doesn't matter. The point is they take it deadly serious.
I've been there. I've covered it. When I went to Bohemian Grove in 2000, I didn't believe it was actually going to happen.
I thought it was made up, but it was real and they were taking it deadly serious.
So Clyde Lewis, I want to get into all the other big subjects next segment.
But this segment, what, what is driving this occultism? Because it's real.
I mean, and occultism is expanding. What do you think is behind it?
Well, there have been a lot of polls lately that have said that a lot of young people today are more into secularism.
They're looking at science to find the answers to a lot of spiritual questions.
And this is something that I think is quite disturbing because what this is is we have failed in a lot of ways.
I think we have failed in teaching our children a lot of things regarding spirituality,
teaching our children a lot of things that put them in a position to be believers in God,
or at least having a spiritual sense. But the spiritual sense is completely destroyed.
And this is something they're grooming Generation Z for. And I said this.
I said, you know, the future isn't about you and me. It's about Generation Z.
And they know this. They know that if they can get them while they're young and having teachers go in
and giving them the globalist oratory and all the things they do,
they know they're going to have these kids prepared for accepting this new world order,
which would be a new world order, not just in government but in religious beliefs
and a number of other things that they're going to be trying to push on people.
And so a lot of kids, a lot of young people today are turning to the occult.
And this is something that, in fact, I think if you read The Open Conspiracy,
if you read The New World Order, these are books by H.G. Wells, who was a fiction writer.
But he said, since he was a Fabian Socialist, he said, that's the agenda.
The agenda is going to be winning over the young people, having them fight for this
and doing so by grooming them and changing their views on everything from government to religion.
And again, they're erecting satanic temples all over the country.
They're doing all this. They go, oh, Satanist, we're just into libertarianism and human empowerment.
But that's not what real Satanism is.
Real Satanism is about total domination over reality and making other people submit to your will.
It's not about empowering individuals' wills.
Well, I mean, you've got a number of different, I guess you could call them groups of Satanists.
You have LeVeon Satanists, which say...
Yeah, you've got people claiming they're Satanists that really aren't.
They're trying to act like shocking.
But tell me what you think a real Satanist is versus a Luciferian.
Well, Luciferians are kind of Illuminati type individuals who are looking for knowledge
and they use Lucifer as the symbol for knowledge and enlightenment.
When you're looking at Satan, however, the fallen one,
there are people who use Satan as an icon of basically atheism saying,
well, I don't believe in God or the devil.
And so they call themselves Satanists, for lack of a better term.
But they really are secularists and hedonists and nihilists.
But when you look at somebody who is actually a theistic Satanist,
you look at a number of religious organizations that call themselves like the Temple of Set,
or you talk about the Satanic Temple,
those who are crucial in bringing forward these statues of Baphomet and the public square,
and of course the Arch of Bale, where they tell you,
oh, the Arch of Bale is a representation of peace and freedom,
when in reality it's a representation of sexual orgies, promiscuity, and baby killing.
And this is exactly what they brought up during the whole Kavanaugh forward debates,
or the hearing, is whether or not Brett Kavanaugh was a sexual predator
and what his positions will be once he's confirmed as, you know, as judge,
or as it's Supreme Court, Supreme Court Justice, that once he's there,
what is he going to do with the idea of reproductive freedom, as they call it?
It's all about abortion, it's all about baby killing, it's all about sex,
it's all about homosexual sex, the devil's triangle,
all these buzzwords that people like Sheldon Whitehouse were just so happy
to basically parade around the hearing and to talk about.
And this was something that really made me feel uncomfortable,
because, you know, it's certainly smacked of a lot of occult buzzwords.
We're calling it twilight language, if you will,
just basically spreading the hidden agendas through words.
I totally agree.
And let's come back into the hard subject.
I like Trump, he's a good guy, his energy's positive, he's trying to fix things,
he's trying to give Christians freedom.
But Kavanaugh is a Bush minion and a Carl Rove minion, and they're all skull and bones,
and you get in that area that he's coast the rest of it,
but Kavanaugh's got a pretty good voting record, but I'm going to be honest here.
Devil's Triangle is not a drinking game, it is Manaja Tua.
So let's look at it.
What's really going on with Kavanaugh?
Could he be the ultimate Trojan horse? We'll be right back.
877-886-3653, goberky.com
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered,
with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
Info Wars Life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula
to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout
with the power of ultra high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients,
such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
With our powerhouse formula,
Happys can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
Happys helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being,
and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today
with Happys from infowarstore.com.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage,
and that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals,
please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
With your help spreading it, and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
The Republic from enemies, born and domestic.
It's Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide
from the infowarstore.com studios.
Are you a god?
No.
Then...
Alright, we just joined this.
I did not mean to get into the occult today, I did not mean to get into all this,
but Clyde Lewis is a big syndicated host, probably with 400 stations,
correct me if I'm wrong, right before George Norris every night on Premiere Radio Network,
heard him for years by on the show,
and I know he predicted rice and attacks.
They could be grown on caster beans, I also think they could grow it on rice,
but the point is, and then it happened,
and then he gets into how it's part of a larger occult ritual.
I was a crazy guy when I was a kid, poisoned the treaty oath,
they signed the Texas Constitution on him, with a bunch of poison,
because he thought he'd get satanic power out of it.
I don't believe in this stuff, these crazies do,
and occultic activities are exploding.
Now I think Brett Gabbanaugh overall has a really good, strict constructionist,
constitutional background.
And so I don't think he's a bad guy.
And I don't want to have even wars with the old establishment,
because the libertarian Renaissance movement is defeating them,
I want to just move past it.
The Clinton stay behind network though is still there with sorrows,
that's why I'm at war with them, because they're still in power to a certain extent.
But you hear about Devil's Triangle, that is a drinking gang,
the creator of it said,
and so when I brought up the Kavanaugh thing,
it's the Democrats invoking that, but I think it's fair
to also bring up Skull and Bones, the Bushes,
that the fact that Kavanaugh was brought in under the Bush,
and that's why Trump brought him in thinking,
well he's got a pretty good voting record as a conservative,
he'll back the president,
but the Republican blue bloods like him too,
and then even that they went after,
but I think they miscalculated because people know who Kavanaugh is.
So I think Kavanaugh's a good guy, I think he'll be confirmed tomorrow,
I backed that, but Clyde Lewis also pulling back from this though,
there's some people out there saying, hey, you know, wait up here,
you know, he's got neocon connections.
Well, it doesn't matter now, I mean, we know the Democrats don't want him,
so that's a positive thing, but what do you think?
Well, I think that, you know, we ought to always say to ourselves
that it's not about, it's not about the worst of two evils
or the best of two evils, we always seem to deal with evil,
and it just, I guess it's the intent
or what is eventually going to happen with this.
I would say that it certainly, if he does get confirmed,
which I think he will too, I think it's going to put a lot of pressure on him
to be ever mindful of how he's going to be looking over his shoulder,
he's going to be having to play the game, so to speak,
and that's what really worries me is that the game will have to be played
and certain compromises will have to be made.
Now, this will be done because that's how it's done in Washington.
I mean, if the government has something happen that's peculiar or weird,
it's because they planned it that way,
and that is something that I think a lot of people need to understand.
It was FDR that said that, he said,
well, if it happens in government, you know, it's because we planned it,
and it just seems to me that this seems,
it seems to me that things seem to be going as planned,
and it just seems like a very interesting plan, bit by bit, play by play.
See, I see patterns, and I'm like you, I believe this,
that it's not what I believe as far as the occult is concerned,
it's what they believe,
and so if they believe it and they practice it,
and they like their little medieval dramas with worshiping owls
and jumping around naked in front of an owl in the bohemian grove,
and if they like their little arches,
and if they like their little demonic hand signs,
and if they like their twilight language like devil's triangle and other things,
you know that there are people,
high-ranking people in positions,
that certainly do these types of rituals,
they have this type of affination for,
like you say, Babylonian, secret school, secret societal, Satan stuff,
and I've seen that all the time, I see it all the time,
and of course, my exposure,
some of my first exposure to it was from Spy Magazine and from you,
so I mean, the triggering of the bohemian grove meme is certainly right here and now.
Now, I don't know, is Kavanaugh a bonesman?
I didn't really know if he was a bonesman.
No, no, I don't think he's a bonesman.
I just think it's reasonable, as some listeners have said,
hey, look, Roger Stone wrote articles about him 80-something days ago saying,
look out, we want Barrett, not him, whatever.
The point is, he's got a pretty good voting record.
Let me ask you this, and I'm going to play a clip actually from The Good Shepherd
about skull and bones that Robert DeNiro produced that met Damon's end.
It was actually a pretty accurate movie.
Why do you think the establishment hates Trump so much?
Because he's not part of that system.
It was like what Newt Gingrich says.
He hasn't gone through the rituals.
He hasn't gone through the hazing process.
He was a man who does his own thing, who sets his own rules.
He doesn't bow or answer to any secret societal mayhem.
He may know of it, but he certainly doesn't know how to deal with it.
I don't think as much as the others do.
They know how to deal with the secret handshakes and hand signs and symbols.
You know, it's funny because...
He just blows past all that.
His secret sign is the economy doing well.
Well, yeah, I mean, if you read any post-modern philosophy,
like by Jean Goudreard who said that we're living in times where symbols
are being more than reality itself.
And it's because consciously and subconsciously we respond to these symbols.
That's why you can take a swastika into the eastern world
and they'll see it as a symbol of peace.
You tilt it one way and it turns into a sign of Nazism.
You take a cross, you look at it and you say,
oh, that represents God.
You turn it upside down and it represents the devil.
They understand these signs and symbols.
They know the numbers.
If you say 666, meaning they say, oh, it's the mark of the beast.
We have been...
Actually, this is wired into our DNA, these symbols and signs.
And so if you see them and you're aware of them,
it basically sends red flags.
If you don't know about them, it still sends red flags
because cellular, on a cellular level,
the body and the mind and the soul responds to ancient symbolism.
Let's explain that.
These evil groups have taken over every major power symbol
and turned it around for their control.
So why does Chelsea Clinton hundreds of times
photo with upside-down crosses?
Why do they do this?
Why are they into these dark forces?
Because they're going against the countervailing wisdom
and force of humanity to succeed and empower and be loving.
They want to countervail that and control it.
So they have to try to hijack it
and then do really wicked things they believe to destroy their soul.
They don't know that's happening.
So they get closer to being like anti-human.
I mean, that's really what's happening.
And once they're done, people like Bill Clinton and Hillary
are these robots, people that I know that know them.
They're just these hateful, unhappy robots
that just go around grasping like zombies.
I mean, it's horrible.
But they believe that's enlightenment.
Well, I heard a definition once of what a monster is,
and it's a very simple description.
A monster is a human being who doesn't care.
And that's how you become a monster.
You just become, you don't care.
And what is the whole purpose of the cremation of care?
We release from ourselves any responsibility.
We receive, we release from ourselves any care.
You're getting rid of the conscience in a black magic ritual
to take the metaphysical report you show law of the universe
and pass it on to a child,
which is the very essence of hard core black magic.
And the definition of a vampire is a vampire that robs you
not only of your blood, but of your virtue.
And that is what is at stake.
And of your seed, because it's one thing to suck somebody's blood
or their money or their power, but if you kill their kids,
if you take their line, now that's real power.
Right. It's the idea that if you can eliminate progeny,
I mean, what was the whole purpose of the Garden of Eden?
The Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve ate of the fruit,
it was we want to corrupt the DNA of mankind
because we look at them as abnormal monkeys.
And that's the true satanic ritual.
Clyde Lewis is so smart.
We'll be right back with him.
We'll get into more political stuff and take your calls next hour.
But thegroundzeromedia.org, amazing at Clyde Lewis at Twitter.
He tuned in to the night, obviously, at 10 o'clock Central
right before George Norrie.
So we'll be right back on the other side
to get more into this and a clip from Inside Skull and Bones
via Hollywood.
X2, we were selling it for about three years,
and then they found out how big it was,
and I was what we were buying.
And they said, oh, we want more money, more money.
And oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract.
And right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient
that goes in X2 that literally is so pure
that if you put it in a peaker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate,
it gasses like I dream of genie and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure.
It just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now.
But I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down.
I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done.
I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run.
There's Bible Shield X2.
And we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it,
InfoWarsTour.com.
If you have experienced it,
I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time.
InfoWarsTour.com right now.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula
only brings you the highest quality organic
and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up
only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber
is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon
for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com
or call 1-888-253-3139.
With less required DHA and EPA,
this incredible formula can help your body in many ways,
including supporting heart health,
joint health and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism,
helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas
may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula
that contains unmodified high-quality krill oil concentrate
paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you
with ultimate krill oil.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
With this fish oil formula,
you can support your child's optimal heart, joint,
cognitive and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential
for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients
with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined
to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow,
look no further. Try Honor Roll.
From InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
From Enemies, Foreign and Domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
Alright, we're going to open the phones up next hour.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're back live with Clyde Lewis.
Next hour, we're going to open the phones up
on Brett Kavanaugh, Willi B. Confirmed.
What do you think about the occult?
All of it, but here's the thing.
The hidden exists, the establishment being involved
and obsessed with the occult is a fact.
And so, why is that?
I think Clyde Lewis put his finger on it earlier.
We're going to go to him in a moment.
It's on our DNA.
Our ancient species, our incredible background,
all the things we've been through.
Obviously, the main line of history we're given is not the truth.
It's like everything else we're told to lie.
And so, this is some language, some system
that we, through ancestral memories,
that they've proven are real.
In all major developed species,
the enemy has our owner's manual.
They have our program.
They are not more advanced than us.
They're not better than us, but they're older than us
or have a longer memory.
And so, they are able to manipulate us
through the archetypes.
And that's really the secret,
and they don't want you to become aware of that.
Well, I want you to become aware of that.
So, we're going to be talking about the Clyde Lewis here,
and then we'll next hour get into all the big,
current, you know, temporal, provable topics.
But he brought us into the whole occult area today,
and we're going to play a clip from a film
that came out over a decade ago,
The Good Shepherd with Matt Damon produced by Robert DeNiro,
directed by Robert DeNiro,
from people that I know that have been in Skull and Bones
and Charlotte Isherby, whose father and others were in it
and released the secret documents to Anthony Sutton.
This is just the beginning.
So, we'll show you inside a ritual of Skull and Bones
here in a moment.
The ABC News caught a little bit of footage from outside
where death equals death, murder equals death,
devil equals death.
And like, simulating murder.
And that's just kind of training the young ones
for the real thing later.
So, it's more like a nursery school
or an outer, outer, outer temple.
Of course, any real Skull and Bones members
or higher levels are probably killing people at about age 12.
This is more wimpy blue bloods are brought in
to be trained before they go to the next level.
Listen, if you don't fund us,
and you already know that, we'll be shut down,
but you are funding us, so thank you.
I need to be flooded with capital.
We have great products at very low prices,
so something like Knockout,
that is an amazing combination of melatonin
and eltryptophan and valerian root
and lemon balm and chamomile and a bunch of other things.
It's the same amount as a bottle of melatonin
that has the same dose.
They're just putting a dollar product in it
and selling it for 19 bucks.
We put, you know, 7, 8, 9, 10 dollars a product in it
and then selling it for 19 bucks.
So, it's available at infowarstore.com right now.
You get great products, just like our information is hardcore.
You fund the operation, sign up for auto-ship,
and then that way, you'll just automatically get delivered it.
You get 10% off.
It had a 98% review six months ago,
but the left all goes on to power reviews
and does false reviews against us,
and they brigade and organize
as if you don't know how great the products are.
It's so funny.
It's only 91% review now.
Sorry, only 91%.
So, infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com,
or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
It's discounted right now,
but it's close to selling out.
So is Brainforce Plus, our great new traffic.
It's 40% off.
Secret 12, BuzzFeed tested and said,
well, it's Pure B12,
but here's the best in the country, this other brand.
This was Mark Cuban's lab.
What he said was the best in the country
was what we private labeled.
It's hilarious.
And ours is $10 less.
A lot of our stuff is private label.
Whatever the best is, we private label it in discounted.
A lot of our stuff is proprietary and original,
but it's all at infowarsstore.com.
But I will end the special on Secret 12
and Brainforce this Sunday.
It's got to end because more is coming
into the middle of December, and the current rates
will sell out by November
if we sell at the sales price.
So infowarsstore.com, infowarslife.com,
or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
Now, again, I know we get off in this full occult situation,
but that's really the root of it,
and the elite are obsessed with it because
they're psychopathic, or at least sociopathic,
and they have given themselves over to the programming.
So you and I look at it, it looks like a bunch of gibberish,
because we're dialed into the whole universe.
So I would say it's a good thing that a lot of folks
are susceptible to the programming,
that we have to learn what these symbols are,
and what their antecedents are,
to then see them and understand the larger
a path that's taking place.
And there's not just evil in the universe.
Most of these symbols were ours given by our creator.
We're making the image up, by the way.
That's a big deal. That's a little clue right there.
These are symbols, like the star, the pentacle,
that's given to us, so it doesn't mean it's even evil.
It's been expropriated,
and then the system has hijacked it as a counterfeiter.
Like the Bible says, the devil's a counterfeiter.
So what did Clyde Lewis' take on that into the next hour,
and take your calls and give the number out in a moment?
But first, here's a clip from The Good Shepherd.
Thanks for your logia.
Now, what I'm about to read is actually in a movie
called The Good Shepherd, just like that it was going into.
And the ceremony they do, as you can see here,
in the scene, they're wrestling butt naked in mud.
Okay?
They're wrestling butt naked in mud while other members
in this group, they start pissing on them and laughing.
Okay? And you see here in the scene, Matt Damon gets upset
and he walks out because he just got humiliated.
Now, one might watch this movie and think it's part of the movie.
It's, you know, it's not something that they really do.
It's just an act or whatever, but that's furthest from it.
And that's an internet clip we got with someone's commentary.
But the point is you can find the clip out there
without that if you want.
But the reason I play that is it's all about humiliation
at that level, submitting, telling them all your hopes,
all your dreams, and then later you try to clear yourself out
so you can be possessed in a coffin, you know,
after 10 guys have, you know, done a gang bang on you.
And then after they've done that, then you're on to the next level.
Clyde Lewis, why do you think this is going on?
Again, why is there this obsession with this?
Well, there's power and sex magic.
And some of the groups that, you know, are well-known,
like the OTO and other groups, you know,
of course they practice sex magic.
There's a lot of power in the orgasms,
a lot of power in bringing that forward.
In fact, if you want a sigil to be energized,
usually people who are magicians or wizards
or whomever they'll tell you that the best way to power up a sigil
or a symbol is to either do so through sexual intercourse
or sodomy or even masturbation.
So they know that the power of sex is very,
is appropriate for these sigils.
And I know it's kind of uncomfortable to talk about this,
but this is what goes on.
I mean, you've seen movies like Eyes Wide Shut.
You've seen, like I say, the robbing of virtue of young people,
young women, young men becoming sexual objects.
We know the Franklin scandal.
We know, you know, the situation where those boys were harmed.
We know the stories of boys that are brought to the way
he means Rome for this type of thing.
I mean, trafficking and pedophilia, all of this is a part of it.
And it's beyond the pizza gate.
It's beyond that.
It's all of that.
But, you know, we become specific,
and that's where the media has their heydays,
because you become specific in one area.
And they say, well, it's not happening here,
but what they exclude is it's happening in a lot of places.
And we see a lot of it being revealed and hinted at.
But we never seem to find ourselves in a situation
where we can nab the offenders,
because the offenders are a high-powered,
highly-paid individuals.
And so, you know, what the Me Too movement doesn't do
is it doesn't identify some of the perpetrators
who have actually harmed young children.
You know, we hear the women,
but soon I think the next one will be the hysteria
regarding children who may have said they've been harmed.
But most, have you noticed that most of the big players
are never identified.
And in the double standard, we have, you know,
Kavanaugh being under the microscope,
but never do we ever go back and say,
well, maybe we should put Clinton, Bill Clinton to the fire,
and all the others who participate in the sexual rituals
of Bohemian Grove.
And again, to be clear, Bohemian Grove,
from my own research, is just kind of an outer court
to see if you like it, to test you out.
I mean, do you have any idea from your research,
like who the different occult groups are?
I mean, you know the things they're into,
but it just, it turns into like a labyrinth of mental illness.
Well, I mean, in the beginning, if you remember,
going back in history, they had the Martinists.
And the Martinists had no morals whatsoever.
They were the secret society that did,
they thought it was sexual magic and things of that nature.
Alistair Crowley, of course, was a sex magic provocateur,
and he would raise from many of his rituals
what is called the homunculus,
which is a creature that does the bidding of its master many times.
And that's exactly what the AI movement is all about,
is creating the mechanical homunculus,
or the slave or servant.
And even Anton LeVay had said,
the black book of the Church of Satan,
he said the future would be having a mechanical serve
to do everything...
Exactly, it's an avatar.
Have an avatar, you'd be abused, have sex with.
Back in two minutes with Clyde Lewis,
I want to finish up with the occult,
which the leader obsessed with and get into that avatar.
Then we'll get into the world events and take your phone calls.
I'll give that number up.
infowars.com, newswars.com.
Spread those links.
They're trying to assess us for a reason.
They're scared of this broadcast.
So this is the time to take advantage
of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products.
You get them separately or together
and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way
with this fiber. Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
Tumeric extract plus peppering from black pepper
makes for optimal absorption to help boost
and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function,
immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store
only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains
over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs
such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com
or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Well, Clyde Lewis, big syndicated radio host obviously
on the premier radio network, comes on every night
right before George Norrie at 10 p.m. Central.
He's blowing me away with the occultism of the globalists
and what they're into.
And exactly, if you go back to the Jacobins,
there was a whole left-hand path to imitate our revolution,
but it was about a nine-day work week
and enslaving everyone,
but not telling the public it was slavery.
It's kind of the modern model of liberalism
where they know we're all liberal at heart
and want to have open free societies
even when we're conservative, we care about freedom.
They say they're all those virtuous things, but they're not.
And then they're all about, you know,
Lenin said this, and Anton Levese said,
you'll have machines and avatars that work for you
and it'll be nothing but pure pleasure,
but when they get control, all they produce is pure hell.
Where do you think we are at this point in history, Clyde Lewis?
Well, we are in the verge of pushing ourselves
to the precipice of a new evolution.
It's the new age, they call it.
It's the age, the golden age.
And they said in the golden age, there would be a new man,
and the new man would then lead us.
And, you know, if you want to talk in religious Christian parlance,
the new man that they're talking about, of course, is the Antichrist.
And what's interesting about bail,
and what's interesting about the rule of bail,
the rule of bail is quite simply,
and the resurrection of bail is quite simply,
the resurrection of the spirit of the Antichrist.
So when they bring the arch to Washington, D.C. Mall,
and they erect it, they say it's about freedom and liberty.
No, it's about the Antichrist and what the Antichrist stands for.
And I've noticed that there have been so many stories as of late,
which would indicate that whoever is behind this,
they're certainly either using symbols and signs of the eschaton
to bring people into hysteria,
or we're seeing a fulfillment of what we read in the book of Revelation,
the book of Daniel.
And this is something that, of course, most Christians,
if they're awake, know that this is simply some signs of the times
that need to be addressed.
If not, this is certainly a counterfeit attempt at trying to nudge God
into the apocalypse.
And the most cynical thing mankind can do is to fake his own prophecies
and also to fake his own second coming.
So if this is going on, that is the most diabolical thing,
I think the elite can do is to actually fool people into believing
that the power relies in mankind and their ability to become
more like machines rather than becoming more human.
I'm just sitting back here, Clyde, trying to figure this out myself
because I just want prosperity and a good future
and to build a great future for humanity.
But like you said, it's programmed into us something from before.
And obviously, I don't think humans in our current form
originate from this planet.
You've got the way they distort the Bible and the way the preacher
is twisted or whatever, but you've got the previous creation
the Bible talks about.
I believe the Bible is real.
I just believe the interpretations get twisted of men.
But the globalists are like clearly trying to suppress humans
becoming something.
The fluoride, the vaccines, attacking families,
attacking high IQs, attacking real spiritual connections.
I think we probably agree they're trying to suppress something.
So A, is that true?
B, what is it?
What they're doing is they're certainly concerned about consciousness.
They're looking into things like panpsychism
and they're wondering why is it that we have the type of consciousness we have.
What is it that makes us who we are?
They're tapping into the brain.
They're looking into the DNA.
They're using DNA and they're using brain signals
to try and determine how the algorithms can act.
It's almost like the planet is a laboratory for an advanced species
and lower level aliens have gotten an advanced species
but kept it in a baby state to try to test it in a war game
to like beat it somewhere else.
And I'm not even saying I believe that
due to the gut level extension, the Bible, all the eschatology,
all the archetypes, it seems that's what it is.
Well I've been covering lately the stories that have been coming out of science
lately about what is known as synthetic intelligence
where they are now determining that many of the relationships now,
if you want to go here, this is something even more peculiar.
The relationships we've had in the past with so-called aliens
have been nothing more than relationships we've had
with thousands of year old synthetic intelligence
where the synthetic intelligence has been in the background
controlling everything from the very beginning meaning...
Sure, AI was already here.
Let's talk about it straight ahead.
You realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos
m4s.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at m4store.com right now
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart
and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
We'll stand up and support us financially.
Sorrow's the glove we'll spend winning.
This is M4's Darker Tower.
We're your support.
We'll see you next time.
Well, I love getting Clyde Lewis on
because I had no idea where this would go.
I mean, I wanted to bring up Cabinon.
I wanted to bring up, you know, he predicted a ricin attack
and then we got into the occult and the globalist
which is absolutely true.
We're getting into AI and all this
and, you know, people like Tim Cook, the owner
or the head of Apple, the biggest corporation in the world
who, there's a video on m4s.com
titled Tim Cook, the most dangerous man in the world
because he's the guy getting all the other tech to go censorship.
He's in China helping censor things.
So is Google.
Thank God the Pentagon and others are waking up to this.
But Clyde Lewis, it does seem like it's all happened before
and like we're out here in the middle of this galaxy,
out in the boondocks
and that everything the globalists do
is a scientific mad scientist test.
And no matter what country it is or group,
they're building towards something larger.
And like you said, it's in a Internet of the Mind broadcast
in that there's this knowledge of evil.
The Bible talks about the mystery of evil.
Where the evil works together, it's being directed.
And so this doesn't disagree with the Bible.
It confirms it.
And then you look at the globalists all obsessed with the occult
and then obsessed with building this AI system.
But the AI system, like you said, is already there.
It's telling them what to build with tentacles and nodes
like Palantir's to watch everything we're doing.
So we're building something, an artificial,
limited omnipresence on this planet
and their own words to then direct human development
to build something next.
And it's teaching us we should die and fall away
and this next thing is the future,
which obviously would be like an enemy transmission
that you're scum, you're crap, this thing's coming,
lay down and die, but build it for me first.
I mean, people think about science fiction
a bunch of flying saucers landing like Mars attacks.
But no, that's not the way this happens.
It's like the Bible says it's interdimensional.
Well, and you look at what the future holds.
I mean, you're talking about the singularity
where computers become smarter than humans.
I mean, the closest thing we have to the singularity
right now is the blockchain, which is a ledger
that continues to grow and grow and grow and grow.
And what it developed was a way to actually get humans
to make it grow bigger and that was cryptocurrency.
The thing about cryptocurrency is that you make money
actually with things like Bitcoin and other things.
And what it is, is the blockchain
basically feeding us what we like.
The blockchain realizes, hey, these humans
who want to build me up, they like money.
I'll give them money and they'll continue to watch me grow.
And so what we're literally constructing is
is our own form of Mammon.
We have the Mammon Demon with regard to the blockchain,
which is holding us all hostage with the money
and the decisions with the Internet of Things.
We have a social credit system that's going to be employed
brought to us by China.
Google right now is doing something called
Operation Dragonfly, which they're preparing us
for a social credit system.
What this is, is it's full spectrum control, Alex.
That is the end game, full spectrum control
where they'll be able to have everything
pretty much marked, pretty much catalogued.
And it was Julie Massange, the last broadcast
he made from Ecuador, he was saying that be aware
that they're about to use something called evil dust,
that they're going to be sprinkling everywhere like confetti.
And of course, China has developed
some really amazing things in nanotechnology.
Sure, the original name 20 years ago was Smart Dust.
He's calling it evil dust.
And then it's just little markers that they can run around
and scan and read.
And then China is putting spy tech in all the phones
and we're letting it in and then we're doing it to them.
And it's all just a race for the AI,
but we lose everything in the process.
Yeah, I mean, we become, and a lot of people don't know this,
but the nanoparticles have already been released
and we have them in our bodies.
We just don't know we have them.
It's binary, just like they told us in the Singularity movie
or what it was called with Johnny Depp,
like, oh, he's the good AI and he's in the atmosphere now.
Right, and so, you know, pretty much everything
from the blade of grass you stand on to your animals
to even what's inside of you is going to be marked and catalogued
with your own little number called your social credit score.
We can't cure cancer, and by the way, it's way up, we're killing you.
We have all this, but we can't cure it.
Well, it's not good for business, and they said so.
The Wall Street, and my wife just went through breast cancer surgery
and we did a show called The Cancer Cascow,
and what we talked about was that, you know,
Wall Street actually came out and said,
well, we found a cure for hepatitis
and it wasn't good for business,
and so we got to keep a lid on any cures for cancer.
And in the meantime, they have enough money to create biomarker drugs
and biomarker biological weapons that they can release on everybody
and kill certain groups of the population based on their DNA.
Things like 23andMe and Ancestry,
that's all about collecting DNA that they can use against us
in the future using biological weapons
and eliminating certain members of the population.
Sure, and it's been confirmed,
those groups reportedly don't give you your real DNA breakdown.
They just create a scrambled thing and then add in some things
you're not even to create the psiop.
And again, nothing against being part African.
That's great, that's wonderful.
But now they've done genetic testing in Asia and all over
and it's not actually what they say everybody 100% from one area.
Please add 6% Africa into those tests.
And again, it's a lie.
And nothing against being part African,
it's that they're not telling us who we really are.
Clearly, three different groups on the planet,
interrelated, but in some like weird sports game
or something that somebody set up.
What they're doing right now is they're taking that DNA information,
they're shipping it to the Republic of Georgia
at a place called the Luger Center.
And they're concocting some biological...
No, you're right, they've been going for race-specific biowebs
that Dick Cheney talked about,
but they need a giant spectrum of blood and tissue samples
to index it to come up with one
that they can specifically use against certain groups.
Right, and so they're taking it to the center called the Luger Center
and they're synthesizing it at this center.
The Russians are angry about it because what they're doing is
they're putting all of this biological pathogen in mosquitoes
and other insects, they're releasing them...
And that's Bill Gates.
I'm glad you bring this up. What is up with Bill Gates?
Well, Bill Gates knows that one of the best carriers of pathogen
is a mosquito. In fact, in a TED talk,
he released them to people and he said,
hey, be lucky it doesn't have a typhoid or typhus in it.
And then we have the outbreak of typhoid and typhus in Los Angeles
with the pleas. And of course, in rats.
And we have all the other problems with people coming over the border
bringing diseases to us. Exactly. There is a war against civilization.
Well, and they're going to use what Kevin Kissinger said
with his document in 1974.
We've got to make it look natural.
We have to bring about some sort of a famine,
some sort of a crisis where we're lacking in resources.
And in the meantime, we're gathering the resources
and leaving the peasants to starve and fight over a crust of bread.
In the meantime, they're sick, they're divided,
and they're easy to conquer in that regard.
And so that's why I was...
No, I totally agree. Let me ask you this.
And I want to come back and take calls. What do we do, Clyde?
Because I'm not just kissing your butt.
You really are one of the people I know that's really dialed in full spectrum.
Like, you're reminding me of stuff I forgot about,
like world government bio weapon labs, the Rockefellers run,
Holsprings Harbor built in Georgia,
Russians threatening to attack the facility.
This is real. I mean, it's what I mean.
It's just like crazy town.
Like, whoa, we're on this planet,
and like there's this race like who's supposed to get control
because something else comes after it.
And I can get the average man I know to quit going football,
and I'm tough, and women just want to get college injections in their lips.
And like the whole future is just racing ahead of us.
The globalists have decided they've already, like you said,
put binary nanotech weapons and all of us to kill our asses.
H1N ones, 10 years ago, they admitted was a bio tracker weapon.
It's a binary for the next one. That's in major medical literature.
It's like they're putting in vaccines,
nano flu that down the road, they give you another flu and it kills 99%.
Exactly. We're on the edge of total extermination,
and the average dumbass goes,
oh, you better shut up. They'll ban you on Facebook.
Well, yeah, I mean, the calling process is underway.
I have to genocide when you're getting, you know,
drugs from your doctors that are killing you.
And then not only that, but we have these pathogens that,
you know, if it was a Middle Eastern country,
develop these pathogens in a rogue lab,
we'd be bombing them tomorrow.
Here in the United States, we do it, and no one cares.
We do it in the Republic of Georgia.
Russia gets all stinky about it and everybody's like,
well, what do they know?
Well, they know that the next biological weapons attack is going to be,
and I don't understand why nobody is covering this,
because, you know, what that man did, William Clyde,
he attempted a decapitation exercise using ricin.
And I could get into that later if you want,
that, you know, we saw it coming,
and you and I had talked about this,
gain-of-function exercise.
When that Emirates plane landed in New York on 9-11,
it was 9-11 a.m. when it landed,
and those people on that plane were sick,
I believe that they were poisoned.
Oh, yeah, I was talking about these aircraft
when people are deadly sick,
or they're really bio-attacks taking place,
but I'm giving the number out when we come back.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago
when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement,
and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems
they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, or go to my website,
danpilla.com, that's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com
ReadyToEatBacon.com
We all know that the outside toxins in the water
is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters,
but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet,
shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water
for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System
is an advanced, four-stage compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain,
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction,
you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water
all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com,
and whether it's your first water filtration purchase
or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home
with the Pro Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
We're here to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy, and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park,
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarsstore.com and get SuperMailVitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality
before it's too late.
Use the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality
from infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The Alex Jones Show
because there is a war on for your mind.
Well, make no mistake,
there's a lot of stuff going on on this planet we don't know about,
and the people that run it are really pissed about the president.
There's not no anger.
There's a fight.
And Trump's turned the oxygen back on to the west,
and the establishment that's been running us down
is really pissed off.
Because Trump's promoting a pro-human future
and saying, we've got secret technology.
We're going to unleash the secrets of the universe.
We're going to release all these drugs and treatments
they've been suppressing, because you know, that's what they do.
I told you the inauguration, he'd do that.
The New York Times asked me, how did you know what he'd talk about?
I just knew.
We're taking your calls.
Next segment, 877-789-2539 on Kavanaugh, on AI,
on world government, on the occult.
And I'll be here tomorrow.
A live feed at infowars.com and newswars.com.
An hour before the vote,
it's set under law 30 hours after cloture.
Could be earlier, could be right for the line.
That's a five o'clock in the afternoon.
So we'll be up here tomorrow at like two o'clock or so.
A few hours before, we'll be watching it.
We'll go live.
We've got reporters in D.C.
For security reasons, I'm not going to say who yet.
infowars.com, word slash show, infowars.com, the main page.
And the power of you, knowing we're trying to block us,
going and getting that live feed off InfoWars,
Angers, Google and Facebook and Apple,
because you send that link out, it's our feed, it's our system.
Guess how much our bandwidth went up a month,
just in video streams.
It went from like $50,000 a month
to $105,000
in September.
And the crew was like, you want us to stop this boss?
You want us to quit? They're taking the player
and it's posted on hundreds and hundreds of websites.
It's going everywhere. People are watching it,
but my God, I said, yeah, that's what we're doing.
Now let's try to get some cheaper bandwidth,
but that's why we sell products and doing this.
I mean, you know, when you've got
a multi-hundred percent increase just in folks
on InfoWars.com watching and listening on our streams,
that's exciting. So keep it going, but by the products.
Well, about Clyde Lewis, host of Ground Zero
on Premier Radio Networks, 10 to, you know,
two in the morning central. Clyde,
I want to go to Cole's next segment,
but just other big points you want to make about
what's happening, the decision humanity has to make,
the things we're doing, what you see coming in the future.
Well, the big decision man kind of has to make
is whether or not they want to be ruled by algorithms
and machines. The reason why I think
people are becoming more irritable and aggravated
is because they don't realize that they're being controlled
by the invisible algorithms on computer social media.
Oh, all the studies show it's lowering IQ,
it's destroying relationships, and it's making us depressed,
and it's designed to.
Well, yeah, I mean, you know, the computer's not only
reading your mind, it's making choices for you now.
And as much as it advances, you realize that it looks,
machines, when they get enough intelligence,
they'll realize just how much of a threat we are.
They know that we can turn them off.
And so just unleashing them the way they do,
and not having control of them,
is something that Elon Musk told us about.
I mean, hell, they've got the D-Wave computer now
that has a heartbeat for crying out loud.
And Jordy Rose, the man who put Kendra together,
said, well, guess what we have, guys?
We have a computer that is literally capable
of opening up a portal and bringing through
what would be considered the same creatures
that HP Lovecraft talked about.
And I'm thinking, are you kidding me?
I mean, he said that during a TED Talk.
And I was like, oh, and then they had the ability
to rip open time space itself and bring through it,
demons, or whatever they want to bring through
to try and get it to perform the way they want it to.
And it's going to backfire eventually,
and one day we're going to learn that we should not
be doing what we're doing and abusing our power,
and using- That's very astute what you said.
And let's say those things interdimensionally aren't there.
They believe they're getting a divine,
assistance divine, influence divine.
Oh, what's the term?
You basically, the idea to do some art or literature,
the inspiration.
But what type of psychos say we're looking
for interdimensional demons to take over
and take over the machines and rule us,
that that shows they're totally projecting a psychotic view?
Well, it's because they want to hand the power over
to what is known as a synarchy.
The synarchy has always been the divine rule
from the shadows, the hidden hand.
And, you know, man has taken that mantle.
Some of the elite have taken that mantle.
But of course, now they no longer want the mantle
given to themselves.
They want to put the honor back into unknown gods.
Something that was talked about in the Bible
is what the Antichrist would do in the future.
They believe they get power out of planetary suicide.
Pretty much.
I mean, they have no,
they have no consideration for humankind.
They believe that they're calling an election
as made sure on some other planet or some other dimension.
And so therefore they're willing to take us all with them.
And we have no choice.
And we do have a choice.
We just have to be aware now how it begins.
If you want to know what the future holds electronically,
you need to read Zbigniew Brzezinski's book
about the technotronic era.
And I even have a book out called
Transhuman Substantiation.
The Truth About AI and the Singularity
that's out right now on Amazon.
And I started writing in 2016.
And I said in 2016,
I said the biggest unfortunate event is,
is that our candidates, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump,
are not talking about the innovations
that can just up and kill us one day.
And we're already exponentially moving quicker
through the unintended battle.
And then Elon Musk warns about it.
And suddenly his company's destroyed.
He's attacked because he's one of the billionaires
that goes to the meeting where they admit all this.
I mean, it's crazy.
Well, they said, you know,
don't take away our ability to play God.
If you get in our way, we'll kill you.
They've said that before.
They've said things like, look, we're playing God.
Get over it.
We want to play God because we have the power,
ability and knowledge to play God.
And that, of course, is an illusifering idea.
The illusifering idea is God doesn't exist.
So therefore, I'm going to be God.
And that is exactly what Ray Kurzweil,
the head of Future Projects for Google said.
He said, I don't believe in God yet.
And he said, yeah, we may not destroy him.
He'll be like a roach.
We may step on you.
You don't need to destroy God to get rid of God.
You just need to ignore God to get rid of God.
That's one of the things that Joseph Campbell said.
He said, you know why nobody worships Zeus anymore?
It's because we ignored Zeus.
But yet again, you've got people like Macron,
the French president,
who when Donald Trump spoke out against globalism,
he said, I'm willing to take over the reins of power of the UN.
And before, before he was elected in France,
he said, I want to rule France like Jupiter,
which, of course, is the equivalent of Zeus,
which is the God above our God.
So this guy's just-
Zeus is the Greek, the Roman counterpart,
the same God as Jupiter.
He's saying, I am Zeus.
These people are crazy.
Yeah.
And you look in the Bible, who, Pergamon,
is the Satan's seat.
And it's the Satan's seat of Jupiter,
which was actually rebuilt in Berlin.
And Hitler spoke from the very altar of Pergamon,
and so did Barack Obama.
And no one talks about that.
And that's exactly what he did.
He spoke from the seat of Pergamon.
And now we have an arch in Washington, D.C.
Come on, these symbols mean a lot.
They're called symbols, and they give-
And really, they're a bunch of megalomaniac crazy people
that don't know they're already connected to God,
and they're just delusional.
They're going to have all this power
when we already have been given all the power by God.
Phone calls on Kavanaugh and so much more,
with Clyde Lewis straight ahead,
infowars.com, newswars.com.
Remember, they're working around the clock
to stop those sites from getting out when you email them,
when you tell people personally about infowars.com.
And here's the forbidden show,
and here's the topics they don't want you to know about.
It's powerful.
It overrides the machines.
It changes the world.
Newswars.com, presentplanet.com, infowars.com.
Get those links up.
GroundZeroMedia.org,
Twitter, at Clyde Lewis.
It's so exciting, and tomorrow,
live coverage from here in Austin and D.C.
of the Kavanaugh vote.
The left's pledging all sorts of violence.
We'll be covering it live and on the scene,
so be sure and join us tomorrow.
We'll be right back.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago
when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement,
and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems
they thought might never be solved.
I can help you, too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX,
or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs,
so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005,
thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems
in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency,
get to goberkey.com.
Or call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653.
Goberkey.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War
to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S.
to create the strongest, most concentrated,
over-the-top stamina, libido,
workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it,
that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself.
And then rest assured, you're fighting the Info War
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available
at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities,
and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
To support your body,
HAPPYS can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body
in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined
to help support the mind and body,
HAPPYS helps support during stress,
promotes overall well-being,
and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress
today with HAPPYS from InfoWarsStore.com.
Built with more than 7 different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains
time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today
at InfoWarsStore.com.
You are the resistance.
Alright, I'm going to go write to your phone calls here in a few minutes,
but Clyde Lewis really is breaking down amazing information here today,
and I want to ask him,
this global awakening we see,
I think is in response, like Newtonian physics,
huge oppression that's here, but what do you think,
spend a few minutes we're going to go to calls,
people can do to not get down about this,
because I think knowing it's happening is positive,
even though a lot of it's negative.
So I'm not here trying to, years ago I was told by folks
affiliated with the globalist off-record,
oh, Jones, thanks a lot, you're just demoralizing people for us.
They'd rather you not be awake,
but if you're going to be awake, they think it scares people.
No, I think if I get a call, my neighbor goes,
hey, your house is on fire, your car is on fire outside.
I go, thanks Bob, and I run out and try to put it out.
I'm not like pissed, I know the bad news,
but I believe in humanity,
and I believe if they know this stuff, they'll do something.
So I don't want to just sit up here and go, oh my God,
there's interdimensional evil and all this stuff.
The good news is it's a test, I think we know what's happening,
I think evil's freaking out, because it realizes we're waking up,
or maybe I'm wrong, but isn't it best to know, period?
Well, it's best to know, and it's also best to have the dialogue.
I mean, the most valuable thing about what you do,
and what I do, and several other shows like yours and mine do,
is we develop the dialogue that is completely ignored.
I've always said that it's exclusion that will do us in.
Anything that's excluded, they'll exclude,
the media will exclude certain things so people don't know about it.
But the truth is, is that the snicker factor on a lot of this is gone,
because as it may sound, we are living now in the future,
and the way things are with the computers and tech,
everything's going to go by so quickly.
In fact, you think time slips by so quickly now,
with the expediency and the innovations we have,
things are going to speed by a hell of a lot faster,
and that's why we have to act now.
It's not about feeling sorry for ourselves and say,
oh, always be, what are we going to do now?
No, life is worth living.
You've got to save yourself.
My life has meaning, I have to go out,
and I have to do this for my kids and my grandkids,
and you have to stop thinking that it's not going to affect you.
It's going to affect you.
And even though we talk about the Internet of Things,
we talk about technology, people say,
well, I'll go live off the grid somewhere in the forest.
You're still going to be affected,
because if they're going to be spraying that smart dust everywhere,
they're going to know where you're going.
You think that test they did on the phones the other day
was just because to inform you that there's going to be an actual emergency?
No, they did a lot with those phones.
They were able to know where you were,
they were able to track everywhere,
and they were able to, they took over the phone,
and they took it over for just a few seconds to see and run data on all of it.
And a lot of people, in fact, you're in the Northwest, where I'm at,
a lot of their phones didn't work for a good two minutes.
Clyde, expand on that.
Why do you think they're attacking InfoWars so much?
Well, they're attacking InfoWars because of the fact that you did a no-no, Alex.
You basically spoke against the state,
and it's always been an American,
it's actually been an American thing to actually speak against the state.
We have, if we see tyranny, or we warn of tyranny,
or we warn of being, the Constitution being trampled upon,
it's our duty as American citizens to actually call it.
And it just really bothered me that for the longest time I was saying,
hey, we need due process of law being carried out no matter how we look at a person.
Even scumbags deserve due process.
And I was always like, oh, Clyde, you're wrong.
You know, if they're realty, they're guilty.
No, you go to a court of law and you carry it out.
Hell, we tried the Nazis in a court of law.
We tried Saddam Hussein in a court of law.
Everybody deserves a trial in due process.
But then when it comes to Kavanaugh, everybody's like going,
oh, my God, no due process, no due process.
Well, you should have thought of that back when we were trampling all over the Constitution
with regards to due process.
First Amendment rights.
Second Amendment rights.
There are amendments beyond the First and Second Amendment.
And people need to understand that.
Search and seizure, incrimination with the Fifth Amendment.
The idea that, you know, we deserve due process, a jury of our peers,
and not expensive bails in jail.
These things are unconstitutional, but yet we let them slide,
and we need to be very, very aware of how they abused their power and we did stop it.
That's why, that's why info wars were shut down because it was,
you talk about abuse of power all the time, you put it to test,
and people don't like to be questioned when their power is being questioned or undermined.
So how does humanity win?
I mean, what's the number one thing you say, Clyde?
This is going to sound cliche, but love, tolerance, understanding,
realizing we're all human beings, realizing that we all bleed red
and we all smell the same in the bathroom every day.
We need to remember that, you know, being human beings, we're also fragile
and we're not as tough as we think we are.
And the only way we can be tough is to think, learn, use critical thinking,
throw away our confirmation biases and understand that there are as many people out there
with different opinions that may give us the solutions to what we're looking for.
We need to unite.
We need to find common ground on the very things we all agree we need.
And I tell people, you know, if you want to have a successful country,
a country that's secure and happy, what you do is you make sure that the people
are getting nice and nutritious food.
They're getting clean water and they're out of pain.
Those are the three things that governments have failed to do for the people.
If we can bring forward great food, nutritious food, clean water,
and keeping people out of pain, we will have a successful world.
So we need to do that for everyone.
And we need to take that into our own hands and make that happen.
Clive, I want to go to some phone calls now here in this segment
and maybe go a little bit the next time I got to go.
But you're on tonight, 10 o'clock.
How many, is it 400, 500?
How many stations you on?
Well, 300, 300.
So yes, 300.
So this has gone up and down.
But I know you're like on a whole bunch of stations.
So congratulations on that.
Thank you.
We're going to go to phone calls now.
This segment, the next, do one more little segment with Clive.
Hold them over a little bit because I got them on late.
We've got common London, we've got Bill in Wisconsin, we've got Jeremy in California.
We've got Stefan in Pennsylvania.
We've got Jim in Georgia.
Let's go to, let's go to Mike in New York first here on the air.
Go ahead.
Awesome guys.
What an honor to speak to you both.
I love both you guys.
Clive, your show is amazing.
I'm going to get to the point.
Today you mentioned about MS-13 in America.
And you click, you guys are both missing the big point.
MS-13's biggest ally in Mexico is the Los Zetas.
We trained the Los Zetas in North Carolina under Bill Clinton and Fort Bragg, North Carolina in the 90s.
We've been arming them.
We've been funding them.
Fast and furious.
And the whole, when El Chapo Guzman got captured, it was a whole plot to kind of ignite a big war in Mexico.
And now they're coming across the border.
They're coming in droves.
They're cannibals.
You can look it up.
They put people into Miley's and eat them.
I know it sounds crazy.
Clive, do you know that MS-13, the majority of MS-13 are seen worse versus, they're also worse versus Santa Muerte.
So yes, they are.
Let me throw this in.
When I said earlier that the Democrats are using MS-13 as their hit army, it's been confirmed all over the country.
I read newspapers all day.
MS-13, it's caught with Democrats smuggling people, running drugs, and when they get caught, the gang kills the young teenagers that are doing the hits.
So the Democrats are using it as their plausible deniability hit army and Muslim Brotherhood and Hezbollah.
This is high level, but it's also in the news.
Like we reported on the Hezbollah stay-behind networks here six months before anybody else did, which is one thing that pissed the establishment off.
I just do my research.
And so, exactly, Clive, again, they do satanic rituals for the power of the children they kill.
This is who the Democrats are.
It's all voodoo crap.
They eat human flesh, Alex.
They've been known to eat human flesh ritualistically.
They've been known to eat human hearts as well.
It's a sickening-
Just like ISIS.
Yes, just like ISIS.
They're devil worshipers.
And the caller, no caller, you're right.
We do know, and we do know that they're working with the very cartel that the leftist CIA put in charge.
Believe me, that's what I'm saying.
Obama has a stay-behind network of CIA.
They're using the different Mexican cartels and MS-13 and Hezbollah as their army.
That's why I warned people.
I didn't just say that.
If you notice, I don't just say stuff for effect.
They've got the hit teams ready with 32 days out.
So God bless you, Mike.
I'm glad you're informed.
Sounds like Mike was probably the military.
Because the military is knocking them down like bowling pins right now.
Trump's been taking them out for 20 months, and they are pissed.
There's not many of them left, but they've got the teams ready.
And they're targeting members of Congress for Supreme Court.
Get ready.
We'll be back with more calls from Clyde Lewis from Ground Zero.
Today, I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals
and the food and water, to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time
and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy, and drive, to get to
the gym, get to the park, and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get Supermail Vitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of Supermail Vitality.
So I want you to experience Supermail Vitality before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you.
Supermail Vitality.
Live in Volcano.
It may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles.
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
X2, we were selling it for about three years, and then they found out how big it was.
And I was, we were buying, and they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract, and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in next to it.
It literally is so pure that if you put it in a picker dish on top of a 90 degree hot plate, it gasses.
Like I dream of genie, and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down, and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run of survival shield X2.
And we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, infowars.com.
If you have experienced it, you know how great it is.
I suggest you stock up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time, infowars.com right now.
InfowarsLife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release,
Winter Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years,
but the result, as verified by independent laboratories,
is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood,
but vitamin D supports our memory and brain function,
something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
We got loaded phone lines, and Joel Gilbert's coming up.
I may be able to twist Clyde Lewis' arm for me 10 minutes the next hour.
I'll take more of these. We're going to go to him.
And the crew's like, hey, plug, plug.
Other talk shows plug every 30 minutes. You never plug.
You say we need money. Plug.
Hey, I got great products, just like our information's cutting edge,
our supplements are amazing, books, t-shirts.
All of it will change your life.
All of it has a big effect on the third dimension and beyond.
So we're ending a bunch of specials right now in Brainforce Plus,
the great new Tropic, 40% off.
Secret 12, highest quality vitamin B12, 40% off.
Happiest, mood, and stress, totally natural concentrated herbs.
Amazing. It's our newest product.
As I do a lot of times with the product, I'm excited about.
No reviews yet. See, it just came out yesterday for two days ago.
50% off out of the gates.
So that's how we fund our operations.
So thank you all for the support.
M4WarStore.com, M4WarLive.com, or Cripple 82533139.
And we're ending the specials, not on Happys.
It'll go for another week.
We're ending the specials this weekend.
Got some big specials next week, but on Brainforce and on Secret 12,
some of our best sellers. This is it.
Because I've been so busy, I haven't got the new specials.
Right after we get off air today, I'm going to do it.
Just like X2 took me a week to get rid of.
On sale. When it's gone, it's gone.
I'll do this thing like last day, last day, last day, last day,
because I'm just so busy.
But without you buying the books, the videos, the t-shirts,
without you sign up for auto-ship, additional 10% off,
free orders of $50 more, you get free shipping.
That's how we fund our operation.
So again, very, very exciting.
I'm going to go back to calls to Clyde Lewis here.
He's on fire today.
Let's talk to Pastor Sam in Oklahoma.
I want to talk about Kavanaugh, Trojan Horse, the Good Shepherd,
and Devil Worship.
You're on the air with the Ground Zero of Clyde Lewis.
Clyde Lewis, I love the title of your book.
I'm going to have to look at that.
I, myself, am unabashed and admitted anti-transubstantialist.
It's probably the only point upon which Alex and I disagree,
and I'm glad he's open to a little lightly debate on that
from time to time.
I do believe that Kavanaugh is a Trojan Horse
because he's a transubstantialist
because he came out of the university.
Well, I'm not as sophisticated as you, and I mean that.
Define your definition of a trans, whatever.
A transubstantialist.
You know, this is the Catholic right,
and it's really easy to just point the finger across the aisle,
but the problem is that Catholic...
But there's this thing online that I'm Catholic.
I don't think it's Catholics, but sir, I'm not Catholic.
I know you're not Catholic, but...
How could I be something if I don't even know what the name is?
I mean, I'm learning about it now, but just...
Everybody's a little bit Catholic,
and this is the abominable right of the Catholic communion,
where the cookie is blessed, the priest commands Jesus
to come down out of heaven and inhabit that host,
or that cookie, that death.
Oh, you're talking about it becoming the real body
and the blood and the flesh.
Okay, I know about that.
In fact, I remember now.
Let's get Clyde Lewis to take on this,
or we're getting it, I think...
The whole reason why I called my book Transhuman Substantiation
is the sacrament of transhumanism.
It's the idea of taking that wafer,
or taking that leap into getting the chip,
or taking that leap into becoming more of a machine.
Oh, I get it.
Oh, that's really smart.
You jump into the machine, you upload your consciousness.
You're really dying, but just like the wafer or whatever,
in a twisted way,
do you believe you're becoming this new creature when you're really dying?
Like, I mean, when you eat the wafer, you drink the wine,
you're becoming, according to Catholicism,
you're drinking the blood and eating the body of Christ,
and it turns into literally the body and blood of Christ.
If you take the...
But Christ really said,
just do this to remember me.
He wasn't saying it's literal.
Well, I mean, that's what Catholics talk about,
is the literal transubstantiation.
But just the idea of the transubstantiation of accepting,
let's just say, a cookie, okay, on a computer,
what you're doing is you're actually, I mean,
every little bit moves you closer to becoming a transhumanist,
closer to becoming more...
We're all being walked into being cyborgs.
Pretty much.
I mean, you know, that's what Elon Musk said,
when he was smoking that blunt on Joe Rogan.
He said, every day, you know,
we find ourselves becoming more like the Borg,
and it's exactly what we are.
We're becoming more like the Borg.
We're losing our humanity.
We're rejecting Jesus Christ.
We're rejecting God,
and we want to be more like machines.
And that we treat people like machines is as obvious as seen
as the social cohesion falls apart
with things like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter.
You know, we can't express ourselves.
Clearly, it's taking us over.
Great points, Pastor Sam.
Appreciate that call.
Let's talk to Stefan.
You're on the air from Pennsylvania.
Welcome.
Hi, Claude.
Hi, Alex.
How are you guys doing today?
I'm doing all right, brother.
Good.
That's good.
So I heard you guys talking about the cult and AI,
and I just wanted to kind of tie in the 5G element to that,
because I think that extra-dimensional kind of shadow.
Oh, yeah.
Beyond the smart dust, it's just 5G blasting,
and you can't escape it.
Right, because for some reason, these types of species,
they cluster around ionization,
and the way that we are operating right now in our world,
we use explosive radiating technology,
which ionizes the entire atmosphere,
and ions positively charge the unraveled DNA.
So what I think they're trying to do with the 5G,
they're trying to suppress the human resonance,
which is the natural resonance that our DNA uses
to kind of send messages.
Well, we're literally building giant DNA-cutting human killing machines.
And to cut us off from our ancestral spirit
and to cut us away from God.
And we're building the weapon system to kill ourselves.
Exactly.
Wow.
Yeah, the 5G system, I mean, the FCC is requiring it.
They're pushing communities and saying,
you have 60 to 90 days to give us your decision
on whether or not we want to put antennas every five feet
in your community.
We're going to give you 60 to 90 days
to decide whether or not you want CC TV cameras everywhere.
You know, they were saying, in order for this whole system to work,
they have to install 1 trillion sensors around the world by 2020.
How are they going to do that?
Nanotech, they're going to be able to drop it everywhere.
This is clearly a warfare takeover.
Yeah.
Well, it's basically, as the caller says, to cloud our thinking
and to cloud our connections.
Which they admit.
Clouds are thinking, breaks your DNA.
Exactly.
And then you look at Ford, Dr. Ford,
she's an expert in microwave radiation to implant false memories.
Yeah.
And our background is she has a family in the CIA.
But who can make that up?
She works at Stanford in erasing memories and false memories.
I mean, what?
It's quite coincidental, is it not?
That's what I was talking about.
Meaningful coincidence is the synchronicities.
Maybe you get that sinking feeling, you know,
that something feels like deja vu or it feels like,
why does this not surprise me?
It's because it's just the way government operates.
And you can see the cold overtones, the dark archetypes.
I mean, Carl Jung explained this with his Jungian philosophies
about how humans take in their unconscious mind and dream time,
how everything seems to be conjured.
And then these unconscious people, they end up taking over.
God almighty.
Great job, Steph, on great points.
Let's go to Tom in London.
Tom, thanks for holding you're on the air.
Go ahead.
Got a prediction about Kavanaugh.
Hi, Alex.
Hi, Clyde.
I'm calling you from the capital of surveillance
and CCTV and 5G test areas.
You're calling us from Air Strip 1.
That's right, exactly.
I usually point out my correct predictions I made in the past.
But I mean, a year ago, I predicted that Trump would be gone by last week.
And he's still there.
So I just thought I would not.
I remember you called.
You have failed again.
No, I failed one.
And I think that they put back the time.
I think a lot of things came out.
I think they were planning to get rid of him over the summer for September.
Well, give us your Kavanaugh prediction.
Because I remember when you called, you had a few predictions came true.
You had some that came not true.
Well, the Kavanaugh one is, I'm not 100% sure if they'll actually be voting
and it depends who is who is the best strategist because Kavanaugh on the court
will vastly benefit Democrats electorally.
I mean, people are saying the opposite.
People are saying that it's going to energize Republicans.
But I think the opposite is true.
And I actually think that the Democrats have it in their hand
and they're going to play their haunted mansion card and mansion.
And so he's, whatever mansion does is what happens because
and I think that the Mackey really in conversations going on behind the scenes
are to do with getting making sure that Kavanaugh is put on the court.
And that's a part of an establishment plan to discredit the institution.
So they wanted to put something.
Well, opportunity Kavanaugh gets in.
Let me tell you the Democrats power grabbing.
That's just raw idiocy.
So I don't think there's a larger sophisticated,
there's a larger sophisticated global plan for the technocracy,
but the inner fighting to the low level minions.
I don't think are that sophisticated.
Let me get Clyde Lewis's take. Thanks, Tom Clyde.
Well, I mean, you're seeing, I mean, I can see where he's coming from
with his with his idea of the predictions.
We're looking at pressure and of course he's under a lot of pressure.
If he and when he gets, you know, putting into the position,
there'll be a lot of pressure on him for the rest of his career.
And of course, when you're under that kind of pressure,
you make decisions that aren't necessarily wise,
or you make decisions based on, you see what happened with Flake.
You know, Flake was about to make a move.
Yeah, come back, do a little more of this ahead of the next.
We'll take a few more calls of Clyde Lewis.
Well, thank you so much for being here today.
Thank you.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves,
it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil,
ultra purified krill oil,
and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula,
you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive,
and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
The Boys Tell How to Find Your Fell
He left his living in cheap hotels,
but doesn't squire, Cleveland's cold,
and so the story ends with them.
Waging war on corruption.
I'm Alex Jones, Clyde Lewis, Ride the Shotgun with us.
We appreciate him being on with us.
We're taking your phone calls this segment and the next,
and then at 15 after, in comes
the great patriot and a great researcher
who will be getting into so many subjects here today, Joel Gilbert.
But there's no doubt we're being manipulated,
and they don't want us to become conscious of that.
That's what we're talking about here today.
Clyde, you got caught off by the break,
but you've heard the caller predicting all this about Kavanaugh.
I've noticed there's sophisticated master plans on top,
and Trump definitely is disrupting that.
Doesn't mean he's perfectly trying to disrupt that,
disagree if you want,
but to the idea that like Kavanaugh knows he's part of a scam and all this,
I don't think that's what's going on here.
Well, most of the time I get the feeling that Trump is an accidental tourist.
He has the attitude of an accidental tourist.
He's there, he's president.
He does a lot of great work in the background.
People criticize him and kick him around,
and sometimes he just accidentally does something
where he's going, wow, you know, that's a move
we never thought would happen from President Trump.
And he constantly surprises us in that regard,
and that makes for an interesting administration.
I mean, others see it as kind of clownishness and whatever.
Kavanaugh, on the other hand, this took a lot of blood, sweat, and tears
to get him in the position he's in right now,
regardless of how you feel about whether or not he is guilty or not guilty,
or that he did what he did or what have you.
The thing to realize is that once he's there,
once he's put in the position,
he will always have to be looking over his shoulder.
He will always be the man that you will always suspect may have been
or may have been that guy.
And I think that puts a lot of pressure on him to sometimes,
I think, knuckle under to some of the desires of the left.
And this is something that may create that Trojan Horse Effect
where we're getting the guy we think we're getting,
but he'll have to make some compromises in order to keep the peace.
I mean, I dread the confirmation on Saturday.
I dread it because it just goes along with what I've been saying
towards this final blow event or whatever it may be.
I mean, I should have said and specified that I didn't
because I thought that a full-on biological attack would be what we'd see.
We only got part of that with the Reisen attack.
It was a biological attack, but it was similar to what happened with anthrax.
And I had mentioned over and over again.
There was something that I had looked at from the project for the New American Century
and how it was written that a biological attack is very effective
if you want to change things politically.
And what's interesting is that in 1984, in order to support the vote in Dallas, Oregon,
the people who were part of the Roshnish cult actually poisoned
or Salmanilla poisoned people in one of the worst biological attacks
on the United States.
They were trying to change the vote.
And I worried that this type of attack, a biological attack,
would be done to change either the votes in November,
which would be a way to do this,
or I never thought it would be used to actually try and thwart the decision of Kavanaugh.
So this may be a trial run.
This may be a trial run to an even bigger one,
where they want to use a biological weapon or some sort of biological attack
to thwart the vote in November.
And this would be something that would be even worse.
Here's my next question.
We'll take a few calls and let you get out of here,
because you've got to do your own show tonight.
Clearly, Soros, the Democrats, the Globals are saying,
we're in an emergency.
We're going to attack everybody.
The death threats are off the chart.
Hundreds and hundreds of rats yesterday today.
They're saying, civil emergency, we're not going to back down.
They are ramped up to crazy towns.
When we come back, just briefly, because I want to go to calls,
what, because you did predict this rise in attack,
what do you think the deep state, the corrupt elements of it,
what are there, because it was made of nuclear submarines in the deep state
or somebody at NORAS in deep state,
but that didn't mean they're the deep state operatives of the shadow government.
What is the shadow government, the corrupt shadow government?
What are they going to pull next?
The Clyde Lewis.
And then we've got, obviously, another guest host coming up.
He's got a lot loaded up.
Joel Gilbert, infowars.com, newswars.com.
I cannot stress to you, the entire Globals program was to shut down infowars.
Why is that?
I'm not quite sure, but just spread the links.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the infowars life daily digestive pack
to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore
to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement
with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula
that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body
to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape
in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore
to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the infowars life daily digestive pack today.
I've listened to his show probably a hundred times,
but these days with four children and the rest of it by like 10 at night.
I tune in sometimes when I'm out driving around,
but I should really listen to his podcast or subscribe to it
because he does a great job.
Just like infowars is a pretty damn good job.
So without you word of mouth spreading us,
we're going to get shut down.
They bet that's going to happen.
We'll see, but your points are really on target.
We'll take a few calls for you to leave us here at this segment,
but let me ask this question.
You predicted the Ryerson attack and a lot more.
Do you think the corrupt elements of the shadow government,
the deep state and your crystal ball,
what's up their sleeve studying history?
Putting us on a war footing before the holidays or during the holidays,
a war footing meaning that we could be once again,
saber rattling, breakmanship, something that would certainly keep us on our toes.
We have some players that most certainly could make their moves,
whether it be Russia or China or of course,
Iran is always there in the background is something to consider.
Maybe even some very shaky ground with North Korea.
I would say though that North Korea and Iran are probably the least of my worries.
I think the relationship we have with Russia is still going to be in the
crosshairs of the liberal globalist elite trying to vilify any relationship
we may have with Russia while China is still lurking in the background
as the ideal government for the new world order.
And that a breakmanship of some kind will happen.
We've had many close calls in the China Sea as of late,
and I'm thinking that could only get more and more testy between China
and the United States because of the fact that they need to put
Donald Trump through the war footing ringer.
They need to see how he will act.
Exactly. We'll go back to you in a moment.
We'll go back to you a moment. That's the critically key there.
It is literally historically. They always do these same patterns.
Here is one of the senators, one of the deciding votes right now,
saying how she's going to vote. Here it is.
Confirmation of a justice to the United States Supreme Court.
I have begun my floor remarks explaining my decision with a recognition
of the solemn nature and the importance of the occasion.
But today we have come to the conclusion of a confirmation process
that has become so dysfunctional.
It looks more like a caricature of a gutter level political campaign
than a solemn occasion.
The president nominated Brett Kavanaugh on July 9th.
Within moments of that announcement, special interest groups
had to be the first to oppose him, including one organization
that didn't even bother to fill in the judge's name on its pre-written press release.
They simply wrote that they opposed Donald Trump's nomination
of XX to the Supreme Court of the United States.
Guys, once she endorses Kavanaugh, let me know and fed it up.
We don't need to hear any more of this. We can see where she's going.
Clyde, don't you think she's about to endorse Kavanaugh?
Of course. I think Kavanaugh will be confirmed.
I think it's a given that he'll be confirmed.
Once again, it was the media that kept us on the edge of their seat
because I think that when you're dealing with the liberal media,
they don't want you to give away the entire story yet.
But we were saying like days ago, I had said on my program,
they'll come to the decision on Wednesday,
we will have that test going over the phones.
They may have the vote immediately, but then I didn't realize
that they would probably do a day to announce it,
and then they would do the vote.
I was predicting the vote would be on Friday,
but they're moving into Saturday.
So I was off of my days, my days predictions of what was happening.
But yeah, and I would say that after the confirmation,
I tell my listeners to be prepared for anything.
And what I mean by this is...
Oh, I agree. I think the Democrats may go super ape.
Oh yeah, this will go supernova, especially where I live,
because I've had to plan my life around riots in downtown.
I've had flashbangs going off near my studios.
It gets really ugly here.
You're in Portland.
Yeah, it gets really ugly because we're literally a liberal city.
And we have...
By the way, I call you a classical liberal.
I've been listening for over a decade.
The new liberals, they're not liberal.
They're very fascist.
Well, and that's why I call them neoliberals.
I mean, we have neocons and neoliberals.
Neocons are fascist and neoliberals are fascist.
Like you say, being a classic libertarian
or someone who's willing to be fiscally conservative
and socially liberal has always been what most Americans are.
But it turns out to be liberal.
It's a bad thing.
And being very extreme on the conservative side is a bad thing.
So keep yourself in the middle or at least somewhere
where you have values and morals and...
But that's what's scary.
If you really tune in for wars and hear our guest,
we're like Americana, Free Will, Martin Luther King.
They project that we're this other thing we're not.
But on the extreme right and left, those are the crazy people.
And then they're saying, I'm an extreme right winger
and alt-right when the alt-right hates me.
Well, it's because they don't know how to deal with you unless they label you.
That's the biggest problem I have is because I've kept myself
in a pretty balanced state.
And there are plenty of people out there who say,
well, Clyde Lewis is a liberal or Clyde Lewis is a conservative.
You don't know what I am.
And I really don't care about being liberal or conservative.
All I care about is humanity and getting the word out there.
It's called objective journalism and having objectivity
and having critical analysis of what is going on.
And it may step on toes and the truth will set you free,
but it'll piss you off in the process.
Get with that program and understand that.
People ask me what I am.
I just want progress to be free.
And then I look at the left, everywhere trying to shut down free speech.
I was like, the right wing was doing that.
I'd be at war with them.
Let's take a call here with Clyde Lewis.
Let's go ahead and talk to George in Toronto, Canada.
George, thanks for holding her on the air.
Hi, thank you for the call.
And my question is very quick and simple.
I believe what you're talking about a lot of the things is the book of Eve.
It's been mentioned briefly in scriptures in the past.
And there's a lot of scriptures in the Bible.
Actually, a lot of scriptures that have been removed from the Bible
over time to get to the watered down version.
That's admitted that half the Bible is uncut out.
Apocrypha, yes.
Could they be, could the Vatican and all these perverse Satanists
that we have today that we are constantly battling
and doing war against Alex Jones and every other patriot,
could they be worshiping out of the book of Eve?
Clyde?
I wouldn't know that they worship me out of any apocrypha.
The Catholic Church does use the book of Maccabees occasionally.
But the thing is, is that a well-rounded education in all religion
would, something I would encourage, rather than saying,
you know something about the Quran, read something about the Quran.
We need a classical education, which they're moving away from.
Yes, have a well-rounded education.
And also with the occult.
I mean, that doesn't mean you have to go and play in the occult.
I was about to say, just because you read some satanic book of child sacrifice
doesn't mean you're killing kids.
It was like when I was like 13, I was buying at the mall,
mind comp, because I wanted to know what Hitler wrote.
The woman asked me, are you a Nazi?
And I said, no, lady, I'm going to read what Hitler wrote.
Doesn't mean I like Hitler.
Well, I mean, in George Lucas wrote, watched Triumph of the Wills
to get ideas of how he could depict the stormtroopers and Darth Vader
in Star Wars.
That doesn't make him a Nazi.
Well, exactly.
But that's like the idea that if I read,
like, take Louis Furcon.
I don't know if it was one of his, as I say, but I've interviewed him.
People say, why do you endorse Louis Furcon?
I don't endorse everything.
I think the boys, I'm interviewing Louis Furcon.
Like the idea, you can't interview me.
Like I'm so evil because they don't want you to kill them.
Oh my God.
That was the question to say, well, you want to interview Alex Jones.
That's going to put you in a situation.
You support Alex Jones.
He's your boy.
I go, Alex Jones is a colleague.
I don't always agree with what he says, but I respect his right to say it.
And I respect the fact that he's taken a very small public access television show
and turned to one of the biggest media centers in the world to bring about the
speaking against state.
And you cannot deny that.
But of course, the media wants to attack that.
And it just really irritates me that, you know, the media does some very,
very shady things and no one calls them on it.
And they should be called on it all the time, I think.
Clyde, I really appreciate all the time today.
Obviously you're at roundzeromedia.org, roundzeromedia.org.
Thank you so much for having us on.
I look forward to coming back on with you very, very soon.
And thank you for a very powerful two plus hours.
Thank you.
And remember my book, Transhuman Substantiation now at Amazon.
Just type in Clyde Lewis.
We'll see all the books I'm offering.
I would like to get a lot of people to read the book because it certainly spans
three years of how we've ignored how innovations are getting out of hand.
And we need to have a debate on how we can take care of this.
I can't wait to read it myself.
Thank you, Clyde.
Okay, Joel Gilbert's loaded for bear.
And then the war room of everything coming up in about 45 minutes.
So much happening.
Sorry to the rest of the colleagues.
I try my best.
Wendy and Jim and everybody.
When you call back in, just the next few days say,
hey, I didn't get on air.
We'll put you the front of the line.
Tomorrow, I'm going to come in a few hours before the vote.
And we're going to have live coverage at infowars.com.
Health care reform is confusing.
But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor,
or being able to afford needed prescriptions,
navigating the health care system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share.
Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people
to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
We ship free.
Try our amazing bacon.
No refrigeration required.
Proprietary value added packaging provides 10-year shelf life
and protects the leanest, thickest, center cut, fully cooked bacon in America today.
Ready to eat right from the pouch or warm and serve.
Savory and delicious.
Wholesale price for your everyday use.
Order today at ReadyToEatBacon.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
ReadyToEatBacon.com.
This is Infowars Darker Sour. We do your support. I'm counting on you.
To fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours.
To still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive.
To get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarsstore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you.
SuperMailVitality.com.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm Joel Gilbert coming to you from the People's Republic of California guest hosting this hour.
Let's go right to Larry Klayman, founder of Judicial Watch and Freedom Watch.
We want to talk about the Kavanaugh hearings and the circus around this entire process.
Larry, welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
Thank you, my good friend. Nice to see you.
Great to have you here today. Larry, look, so many things have been happening in this process.
To me, one of the most amazing spectacles is we see Lindsey Graham and Mitch McConnell
have suddenly become Republicans and conservative Republicans.
What things stand out to you from what you've observed so far?
I'm very impressed with Lindsey Graham.
Obviously, I've differed with him in the past.
He was a Bobsy twin of John McCain, which was not helpful.
He believes that every war is worth fighting.
But on the other hand, he took a strong stand.
I admire what he did. Unquestionably, Joel, he perhaps is the best order in Congress.
He's extremely bright, thinks like a trial lawyer.
And he did a great service to the nation by coming to the defense of Judge Kavanaugh.
And even though I've had reservations about Judge Kavanaugh,
his views on the Fourth Amendment and mass surveillance,
really, it's too late to have another nominee and I'm quite pleased that it now appears
that he's going to be confirmed as we speak.
Senator Susan Collins from Maine is endorsing it, and that pretty much locks it up.
Okay, tell me, why did the Republicans even agree in the first place
to interview Ms. Blasey Ford when she had no corroborating witnesses?
She could not even give a time or a date or a location for this allegation.
Isn't there an evidentiary threshold you have to meet before they would agree to put on this extra hearing?
Well, there should be, but the silver lining in this whole sad affair, no pun intended,
is that the radical elements of the Me Too movement have been discredited.
The radical elements of the left, which foment sexual division, sexist division, racial division,
are being discredited as we speak.
And all of the Me Too movement going out of control running wild are basically the fall of men
because we have rolled over, we accept these allegations, we don't do anything about it
when they're proven to be false, we don't push back, and it just got worse.
But finally, this gets back to Lindsey Graham.
There's been pushback, and it's about time there's been pushback.
Because while there are valid cases such as Harvey Weinstein and Kevin Spacek and others,
frankly, in my opinion, most of them are not.
And they're trumped up by people that are disgruntled that their life didn't turn out the way they wanted
or went there 15 minutes of fame with the creepy porn lawyer, Avinati, or something to that effect.
So that's the way I see this thing right now.
And the fact that this even went forward the way it did was because men basically have been rolling over
to these false allegations and dignifying it in an inappropriate way.
And now you even have the leftist law professor, Gershowitz, saying that if this had been a Muslim appointee
of the Supreme Court, there wouldn't have been this kind of reaction because of the penalties leftist groups claiming that
there was anti-Muslim racism involved.
I mean, this is what we've come to in this country.
And we're in a witch hunt right now.
But hopefully this will put a chink into the side of these radical feminists who think they control everything
and dictate their radical views of others.
Well, what I'm also taking away from this is if Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who is not looking too good,
she cannot even lift her head, it seems like she mumbles.
If she retires, passes away suddenly, or is deemed incapacitated, is this only a prelude for what the left will do
if Trump tries to replace her seat with a conservative woman, for example,
will nominees even be afraid to accept the nomination knowing that they will come under all kinds of vicious attacks?
What do you say about that?
It may be. On the other hand, so everything's been dumbed down now, you know,
because what Clinton went through with the impeachment, Bill Clinton, you know,
done the body politic down. But if you're going to be any kind of a public official,
if you're going to be Larry Klayman, if you're going to be Joel Gilbert,
if you're going to be Alex Jones, you're going to be attacked.
And you have to accept that and look at what our founding fathers went through.
They risked their lives, they pledged their honor and their fortunes to build a new nation.
We can certainly withstand this if we have the courage to stand up and do that.
And we have to do that. And I'm afraid, Bill, that, yes, it's going to get worse.
And the violence in the streets that have been fomented by the left is going to increase.
And I don't want to see it. I'm going to do everything I can to freedom watch to stop that
with our citizens going to juries and everything else.
But I do believe that we are potentially headed for a violent civil war between left and right.
And when it is triggered with regard to the right, okay,
and I don't condone it, and I advocate against it,
but you're going to have people out in the streets that really know how to take care of business
and left a little bit off more than a shoe.
Okay, we'll be taking calls this in next segment. It's 877-789-2539, 877-789 Alex.
Yes, right now is attorney Larry Klayman, founder of Judicial Watch and currently has Freedom Watch.
Larry, how despicable a stunt was it, and will Diane Feinstein be held accountable
for actually having this allegation in her office since July,
and then simply waiting till the confirmation process was over to then present it?
How despicable was that, and is that something that the Judiciary Committee will hold her accountable for?
It's beyond despicable. It's not just Diane Feinstein.
It's Chuck Schumer. It's, you know, a lot of them on that committee.
We saw how disgraceful and how vile and how dishonest they are.
The Democratic Party has become a party of communists and radical feminists, radical pro-Islam, radical illegal immigrants.
I mean, you name it, it's become a repository for every radical person and group in this country.
And, you know, I take a nonpartisan view and approach the Freedom Watch, so I'm not advocating who to vote for,
because I can't do that as they have a public interest group.
But I'll tell you something, the Democratic Party, they become bullshit, and we have a big threat.
Now, in terms of Diane Feinstein and her antics and everybody else on that committee, they won't be held accountable.
And as much as I like what Lindsey Graham said, he always preferences it by saying she's a nice person,
you know, or that person's a nice person, they're my friends. You know what?
You're going to stand up for the American people.
Don't say they're nice people. These people are not nice people.
And they shouldn't be your friends. Get rid of this Senate club.
So, when I ran for the Senate, I said, I want to be a part of that club.
I want to take a club to the Senate. And I hope we do that going forward.
Okay, we've got about a minute left with Larry. Again, keep calling in. It's 877-789-2539.
Larry, should Dr. Blasey Ford be investigated by the FBI to see if these allegations were possibly completely fabricated
and wasting the time of committee? Your opinion?
I should investigate it. I'm not sure by the FBI because they become very politicized as well.
But yes, too much in our society. A woman can make an accusation in a family court proceeding,
or a proceeding such as this, with the confirmation of the Supreme Court justice, and walk away scot-free with no consequence.
It's time that both sexes be held accountable.
You know, the Bible says, the house shall not bear false witness.
That's maybe the worst violation of the Ten Commandments, Joel.
And it's about time we started to force what Codd actually bequeathed to us in terms of morality, ethics, and respect for his legal system.
Okay, Larry, thank you very much.
We're running out of time for this segment. Keep calling in 877-789-Alex.
We'll be back after the break on The Alex Jones Show.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best. Get a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a Sunny Bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny Bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our Sunny Bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find Sunny Bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for Sunny Bay heating pads.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts, or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clearer.
It is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen.
Our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand-new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Bregmanone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain,
healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Bregmanone base, the Real Red Pill,
it could become one of our fellow Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract,
your Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up
while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfowarsStore.com.
Experience the benefits of fish oil with less-required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health, and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism,
helping to maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains
unmodified high-quality krill oil concentrate,
paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil,
now available at InfowarsStore.com.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
Joel Gilbert, guest hosting this hour, coming to you from the People's Republic of California.
You know me as a frequent guest of Alex, filmmaker of many conservative films,
including Dreams from My Real Father.
Be sure to get that in the Alex Jones store.
And my latest film, of course, is still there.
It's the Trump, the Art of the Insult.
Look, what's happening, first of all, everyone keep calling in.
It's 877-789-2539, 877-789-Alex.
We will be taking a lot of calls this half hour.
First, I want to talk about the Kavanaugh hearings.
What you saw on display the last week is what I call Obama's America.
This is the America that Obama advocated for and wanted for.
He permanent, hysterical, screaming protest with leftist activists,
activated harassing people and protesting nonstop.
This is their model for the future.
And we're seeing a lot of pushback, as Larry Claimant said.
You saw how Senator Grassley and other Republicans were so upset by the wholesale abandonment of respect and due process.
The grassroots are upset, public doesn't like it.
The idea that you'll destroy a family man with an impeccable background,
with baseless allegations, with no basis of any corroboration or fact whatsoever.
But this is Obama's America and you saw it.
Let's look at a video excerpt from my movie, Dreams for My Real Father.
And I call this the revolution of for change.
Let's look at Obama's America as a clip from my film.
We're going to be taught how to organize it.
The Academy also preached Saul Alinsky's Rules for Radicals as a blueprint to transform America.
The first rule of change is controversy.
Change means movement and movement means friction and fiction means heat.
Alinsky defined the battle cry of change as a code word for socialism
and emphasized ruthless tactics for taking power that he'd learned from Al Capone's Chicago mafia.
Sending a powerful message that change is coming to America.
Change does not happen from the top down, it happens from the bottom up.
In stump speeches, I carried my message of change.
The American people will embrace the change.
And our time for change has come.
The crowds cheer, even though they had no idea what I was talking about.
Okay, that's an excerpt from Dreams for My Real Father.
When Obama said change, nobody knew what he meant.
And what he was talking about was the radical left Saul Alinsky rules for radicals where you disrupt the system.
You try to destroy the system and bring it down so you can rebuild from scratch a socialist society.
Millions of people voted for Obama had no idea who he was or what he represented.
If you see my film Dreams for My Real Father, you'll know, of course, that his real father was not the Kenyan goat herder.
In fact, his father was the Russian agent named Frank Marshall Davis, who Obama admits radicalized him in his youth.
Before I get into more, let's take a couple of calls.
I'd like to go to CJ in Kansas City.
CJ in Kansas City, you're on the Alex Jones show.
Hey, what's going on, Joe? Appreciate you having me on.
Thank you.
Basically, I just wanted to make the point of this whole ordeal with Christine Blasey Ford and her weird connections with the CIA and the DNC.
Kind of seems like it might be another attempt to try and cover up the Hillary Clinton scandals and everything going on with fusion GPS and uranium one and all that.
OK, look, you have to understand and you have to wonder it's a good point because whenever their path to success is threatened, they will come up with anything and everything.
Remember that the left achieved almost nothing by way of law and by way of Congress.
Everything was achieved either on the Supreme Court or through Obama's executive orders, which were all illegal.
And they want to continue to appoint radical leftist judges to force their agenda on the American people, even though no one voted for it.
So this is a great point.
Let's go to another call before I get into more.
How about let's go with Al in North Dakota. Al, you're on the Alex Jones show.
Yes, sir. OK, hello, Mr. Gilbert. Yeah, thank you for taking the call and I just called in initially. I really I didn't realize Larry Clinton was going to leave so quickly.
OK, but I just wanted to express my thanks to him for the work that he's done.
I'm familiar, very familiar with him. I did his solicitations all the time and I was so flabbergasted and disillusioned with Jeff Sessions and I was just so glad that Larry Clinton is there to do the work that he does.
And thank you, sir. Just get on the phone right here listening to you.
I just hear the author of the book where you were the one that pointed out that Frank Marshall Davis is actually the probably the biological and definitely the spiritual father of Barack Obama, correct?
That's correct. Dreams from my real father. It's a it's a film. You can get it on the InfoWars store and look, Obama admits he was radicalized by Frank Marshall Davis.
Davis was a Chicago Communist that was ordered to Hawaii by the Russian government to try to start a revolution in Hawaii to get rid of the US naval forces by starting a dock worker strike.
He was a Soviet agent and he raised Barack Obama. And no doubt when you look at Obama's policies, he radicalized him into this worldview of socialism and communism.
So I appreciate the call. Look, fundamental or a constitution, of course, is is free speech. Alex has been talking about it without free speech.
We're not free. That's why it's the First Amendment, the very first one. And you saw that Alex has been banned from PayPal, Facebook, YouTube, you know, Twitter, you name it.
And don't think it's not a test case. The left likes to do test cases. Don't forget they did a test case with the IRS. In 2012, Obama used the IRS to shut down the conservative movement.
He wanted to shut down the ability of conservatives to organize in 2012 after he got wiped out in 2010 by the Tea Party. That was their test case.
There was very little pushback from Republicans. Obama said, well, you know, we're going to investigate this. Nothing ever happened. And the Republicans kind of dropped it.
So having succeeded in their test case, they came back in 2016 with the FBI, DOJ, CIA, all the tools of state mobilized to prevent we the people to prevent Donald Trump from succeeding.
And Donald Trump, it's not even about Donald Trump. He's just in the way between the people who wanted constitutional government restored and the people.
So it's very important that people oppose any limitations on free speech to the Alex Jones show or anyone else, because it's simply a test case.
If they see that there's no popular demand that Alex be allowed to have access to all these platforms, the Gateway Pundit will be next.
Then it's WorldNet Daily. Then it's back to Fox News. Obama tried to shut down Fox News with a number of attacks. They didn't work, but they'll be back for Fox News.
So that's how the left operates. They cannot function in a free society where truth and reality exist, because their policies are not based on truth and reality.
They're based on this fantasy. You may have seen my film. There's no place like Utopia. It's the idea that they'll create the perfect world, the perfect society.
And progressives murdered 150 million people in peacetime in the 20th century because they wouldn't fit into this perfect world, perfect society.
In Cambodia, they killed everyone who had glasses, because if you had glasses, you could read, and that meant you were intelligent.
You knew something, and they wanted to start over with perfect new human beings.
So we have to understand that reality and truth are important. When you look at when it's hysteria, when it's lies, it leads to destruction and the end of freedom.
So everyone, please make sure you do everything you can to demand that Alex Jones be let back on all the other platforms.
Keep calling in. We're going to take more calls. 877789 Alex. Be back, and we'll keep talking about Obama's America that you saw on display in the Kavanaugh hearings.
We'll be taking more calls right after the break.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
Info awards is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them? Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground, and I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us, and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, infowords.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scum bags.
We'll win. We have huge sales at infowords.com right now, and we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you, despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce, and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Global Spain win. This is InfoWars Darkness Hour. We do your support. I'm counting on you.
Stress is a natural part of life. Worth, family, friends, and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down. Happies is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's daily inconveniences.
With ancient ingredients used for thousands of years, Happies can help you take back the day. With our powerhouse formula, Happies can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, Happies helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happies from InfoWarsStore.com.
I still have that energy. There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy, and drive,
to get to the gym, get to the park, and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfoWarsStore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone. This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you. SuperMailVitality.com
Just like our information is game-changing, our products are game-changing, and Survival Still X2 is the pure eye-to-eye. No one else has this from deep-earth crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get. It's the good halogen. But instead, they hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Myotry selenium goes with it like a horse of carriage. Selenium is an electrochemical. It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together. We have a combo of those. Just experience it for yourself. Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff. Filter your water. Yeah, I find myself still on a water filter. Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run, I think it'll be six months or years until we get more. I hope we get more. This is the last run. It looks like Survival Still X2 at M4store.com, or M4slife.com, or AAA-253-3139.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. Joel Gilbert, guest hosting again today from the People's Republic of California in Los Angeles. Keep calling in. We'll take a lot of calls this segment. It's 877-789-2539.
That's 877-789-Alex on a very busy news day that the Kavanaugh vote is going forward. We saw Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham become conservative Republicans finally.
And a lot going on. Let's go straight to some callers. Let's take Todd in North Carolina. You're on the Alex Jones Show. Todd, go ahead.
Hey, Joel. Thanks for taking my call. Appreciate all your work. One thing I'd love to see you do one these days is some sort of an investigation into Peter Drucker, the business, what would you call him?
He wrote a bunch of books on business, skills, and everything, but anyhow, his influence over the modern megachurch and bringing in the idea of humanism and social justice into the megachurch.
But the issue that I mentioned to the screener was in regards to, is Kavanaugh a Trojan horse? Kind of like Kenya in the birth certificate where a Trojan horse or who Obama's real father was, Frank Marshall Davis.
Right. Well, look, Kavanaugh was a Bush guy, okay? So the Bush guys are always people that can cave in or go one way or the other. You've got to understand that.
I even saw Kavanaugh wrote an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, essentially apologizing for his defense, defending himself in the face of criticism from Democrats that he wasn't very nice when he defended himself from the ruthless, heinous allegations of attacking women and gang rapes and all this nonsense.
So you can see some people are easily swayed or will cave in, and certainly Kavanaugh is vulnerable to that like any of the Bush-era type of people.
Sometimes when they're pushed to, when their back is against the wall, they do stand up for themselves. As you saw Lindsey Graham and even Mitch McConnell have come out as strong conservatives.
So you're definitely going to have to keep your eyes on Kavanaugh to see what he does. And thanks for the mention of dreams from my real father.
Look, Obama was raised and radicalized by a Soviet agent, Frank Marshall Davis. I think I've shown a mountain of evidence that in addition to that, it was his biological father and everything Obama was a complete lie.
So we can do, I can do another hour on that one. Let's take another call from Desiree, Desiree here in California. Go ahead, you're on the Alex Jones show.
Oh, yes, Joe, can you hear me?
Yes, how are you today? Yes.
Oh, I'm great. I'm great. I'm so glad I finally got through. I was actually calling because I just wanted to say something, two things actually.
First is, you know, I have always been independent and I've always really voted more so Democratic on the Democratic side for the last couple of years.
But, you know, what I'm seeing right now with this, the Kavanaugh hearings and everything that's going on, you know, I'm a single mom and I have a son, he's 12.
It's really disturbing to me. So that really has shifted my focus on what's happening. I think it's horrible.
And I think that more of the independence are going to be swinging to the right because of that. That's just my personal opinion.
And that's what I'm seeing for myself.
You know, because I just basically destroying a man's life over baseless accusations. It's horrible.
And it just made me really sad when I watched him on TV. I was almost crying.
Thanks for the call, Desiree. I mean, I think you're typical of a lot of people that are very normal Americans that are deplorables even though they didn't know it.
That you have some good gut instincts and a lot of common sense. And once you see the face of the Democrat party, the true radicalism coming out.
Don't think that Chuck Schumer and Dianne Feinstein and, you know, Coons and all these guys all of a sudden became leftist radicals.
They were practicing before something called stealth socialism. And that's how Obama got elected in the first place.
He said, I'm going to cut the deficit in half. Marriage is between a man and a woman and God. I'm going to obey the Constitution.
It was an intentional lie to get elected. But they used to keep their socialism to themselves.
They wouldn't tell you outright, I want a revolution. I want to destroy the free market system.
Now they're just coming out in the open. This is part of that Trump derangement syndrome that they just can't help themselves anymore.
So you can see the radicalism coming out. And I think it's turning off mainstream America.
And thank goodness people like yourself have a chance to really see these people for who they are and you're not going to throw away your vote.
And then be thrown under the bus like Obama did to all of his voters.
Let's go on to Patricia in Arizona. Patricia, go ahead. You're on the Alex Jones show.
Hi. I'm calling from Arizona and I wanted to let you know that a friend of mine went to go vote in the primaries.
And they told him he was not registered as a Republican and he's been registered as a Republican for years.
And they said, no, you're an independent. And then they gave him a ballot. They didn't have any names on it.
So there was nothing for him to vote for. And I'm wondering if this isn't how they plan to do another segment of their voter fraud.
And people should, I wanted to bring the point out that people should probably check and make sure they're registered as a Republican before they go to vote.
Okay, Patricia, thanks for the call. It's an excellent point. I've been talking about this and warning about this.
It's in all my films that the radical left, their policies don't work. They have no basis in reality.
So they have to force their agenda on the American people either through lying about it to get elected or through voter fraud.
And the left has made a big effort over the past few years to extend the voting.
Instead of for one day, it's one week, then it's three weeks. Now they have early vote so they can register illegals to vote and then you can vote by mail.
There's no way to track them. This is their only path to power is voter fraud.
And what you're telling me is just one of many tactics I've heard of where they try to control the voting booths and the voting system,
as well as the voting machines, as well as the early vote process. It never ends. Now Donald Trump, when he was elected, he tried very hard to clean it up.
And a lot of the states would not even cooperate. So it remains a very grave danger.
You can literally, you could see a situation where the polls will show that Republicans are winning big time.
And then on election day, they could lose by a couple percentage points. And if they do, it'll be because of voter fraud.
So the system has to be cleaned up and it has to be much more vigilant. And it's a constant problem.
If it's not voter fraud, it's using the tools of state, the IRS and FBI to manipulate the elections on and on.
And then they say, oh, well, Donald Trump was hanging out with Putin and he was the one trying to manipulate the elections.
You know, it's quite the opposite. Let's go to another caller. How about let's go to John in Colorado.
John, you're on the Alex Jones show.
Yes, I'm here. First, I want to say to Jeff, not Jeff, Judge Brett Kavanaugh is, you know, my prayers are out there for him and his family.
And my prayers are out there also for Dr. Ford's family.
And all that they have gone through, I think it's disgraceful and constitutional for what both of their families have been drugged through through the Democrat Party.
That being said, you know, I think moving on to the Obama America, I think he lost America the last two years of his presidency.
And that's probably what got President Trump elected. Moving on from that, I think this is now Trump America.
And we're moving on and people are finding out who the true Democrats are.
They are like Alex Jones and may have parties and spoke to people on his show instead.
They will expose themselves and they have exposed ourselves, which, you know, it has said a lot about that particular party in itself.
Thanks for the call. We only got a few seconds left. Thanks for the call.
Look, that's a good summation. What we've been talking about for the full hour that the hearing itself was a little bit absurd.
There was no corroboration. She didn't even know what date this thing happened, where it was located.
There certainly should have been a threshold that they would have to have had time to look into this to see if it was even worthy of bringing before the committee.
I think had they had time to investigate, they would have found that there was no point of bringing this up in the first place.
And of course, that was the Democrats strategy to begin with.
Let's hold this until the hearing is over and then try to throw the process and even the midterms into chaos.
And we'll, you know, we're going to, you know, get our people out to vote and so on.
But it looks like it may be backfiring. So it's been a very interesting week.
Thank you for being here. I'll be back in two weeks time.
Welcome to everyone who's coming on new to the website info wars.com. Go to the store. I'm Joel Gilbert. Thanks for being here.
Years ago, Info Wars Life created the powerful Michael ZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
Michael ZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
Michael ZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, pal-darko bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved Michael ZX Plus today at infowarslife.com. That's infowarslife.com.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs. With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why infowarslife created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula. The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients. Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today, available at infowarsstore.com.
