It's Tuesday, October 9th, 2018, we're now only twenty-eight days out from this incredible
important, obviously historic election, a referendum on nationalism and self-determination
and due process and freedom versus the globalist and their corporate tyranny led by communist
China, Big Tech, the megamanks, America hating Hollywood, and of course the unelected tyrannical
EU.
Now coming up, we're going to have Owen Schreuer and others in studio, but I come to you right
now with obviously the positive news that Kavanaugh was sworn in yesterday by President
Trump and outgoing Justice Kennedy.
Very powerful footage coming up in the third segment, we're going to go over, but our top
story is this.
The Democrats have answered the question that I was asking yesterday on air.
In Politico, New York Times you name it, they pledged to escalate their, quote, ruthlessness
and their intimidation and their bullying and their war on anyone that supports President
Trump and American rebirth, and there's a theme on infowars.com today without us even
trying to come up with a theme.
You just see the theme in the news that is reality, and that's that so-called anti-fum
run by the Ford Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, and funded by George Soros publicly, is the
modern offshoot of the weather underground that Obama sat under and received tutelage
from, and they are escalating their violence into and well past the terror zone.
Now terrorism is the threats of violence or violence to make people follow your political
aims, and that is the very definition of terrorism, and anti-fum takes the very scum of the earth,
very low level thugs, who are mainly white all over the country, and they also have them
in Europe, and then they go out and literally scream at other white people, you're effing
white people.
They block highways, they block roads, they block voting areas, and if you're old and
even driving a cheap car, that is a sign that you have a car just like Pol Pot thought
of, you had glasses that you're part of the elite, and an evil effing white male as Age
Freelich famously said, and so they get in your face.
So coming up in the next segment, we're going to play some of these shocking videos, I don't
play a clip right now, here's just a moment of what they're doing, and then you've got
Congressman Scalise and other people being threatened with death threats, and even the
editor of Raw Story came out and said, listen, you deserve it, boo-hoo, we're coming for
all of you, so I'm going to be breaking this down on the other side of this break.
Again, infowars.com, newswars.com, tomorrow's news today, here's a clip of what's coming
up, we'll be right back.
Michael Savage has made the point, I've made the point that they need to be designated
as a terrorist organization, and they need to be moved against because they're trying
to block people's civil rights, trying to block people's freedom, Antifa is a terrorist
organization of the Democratic Party, just like MS-13 is, we'll be right back.
We'll be right back.
He's going shut the f**k up so I can speak.
I got shot at face.
I got shot at face.
Ask me if I give a f**k or something to him, not you. Thank you very much.
But I'm in the middle. I'm in the middle. I'm in the middle.
Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
It's Tuesday, October 9th, 2018.
Again, I am your host, Alex Jones, and this is history in the making.
Our top story today is all posted to newswars.com and infowars.com.
And there is a theme without me even directing the writers.
There are more than six major stories showing major news site editors praising the physical attack on Congressman's police
and saying that he deserved it and praising other calls for violence against members of Congress's families, their wives, their children.
We're going to be getting to that in a moment, but you just saw some of the footage.
Obviously, a lot of beeps there, a lot of FUF that covered up.
The raw footage is on infowars.com of Portland just yesterday.
Paul Watson wrote about this.
Where the antifascum, the terrorist group, blocked the road and then screamed at white people, Hispanics, you name it, and said, FU Whitey.
So this is the mental illness by the Nazi group that Soros finds where they call you a Nazi and dehumanize you.
Then they can physically attack you.
They can gang up on you.
They can do whatever they want.
This is the frothing, insane, raw hate of the authoritarian left that they're projecting upon the world.
We'll get to more of this video here in a moment, but here's the actual article from infowars.com.
Boo-hoo, little baby.
Leftist editor, mock shooting victims, calls for civility.
Steve Kales nearly killed by deranged Bernie supporter last year who intended to kill all 17 members of that caucus delegation.
A senior editor of the leftist publication, mocked House Majority, whipped Steve Kales, Republican Louisiana's calls, for civility in politics.
Kales, who was shot and nearly killed last year by deranged leftist during congressional baseball practice, tweeted Monday that the left's threats of violence because Republican politicians must stop.
They were sending beheading videos to people's wives and they're going to kill them.
These vicious threats have to stop.
This cannot be the new normal.
There's absolutely no place for violence in our political discourse.
Democrat leaders need to denounce this behavior he wrote.
But, oh look, Martin Sismar of Raw Story responded.
Boo-hoo, little baby.
And he went on to say he's not a survivor.
He's an accomplice.
And then we have the link in the article where Wolf Blitzer has the friend of a guy that went to Shotzkillies and tried to shoot others, including Rand Paul.
And they say that he's not a monster, he's a hero.
So that's all on infowars.com right now, an absolutely critical article that everyone needs to get out.
It's a Jamie White article, Paul Watson has also written on some of this today, because the left is now praising what Antifa did in Portland.
So they all bend over backwards to praise whatever the left does on their basic paramilitary wing that is Antifa.
And that's why they're protected, that's why they're praised.
Of course, President Trump said, yeah, there's bad people on both sides from the white nationalist rally and the Antifa Communist.
Because he went to Homeland Security, right after it happened, he said, give me a briefing.
And it later came out, that's what happened.
They said, well, this is a group of white nationalists and then they're there.
And so we believe at stage, we believe a lot of them, well, we know a lot of them are Democrats just a year ago.
A lot of them are in the art department, theater department, a lot of their parents are leftist, you know, connected to an intelligence agency, sir.
But the point is, we believe it's a synthetic operation to cause a riot.
And then you've got Antifa funded by Soros, and they're basically a communist group, and the Weather Underground shot troops of the Democrats.
So they said both sides are basically bad, but both sides have their free speech.
And what they do is they block cars in, they want people to get through, and that causes people to panic and then run over folks.
And that's what you basically saw.
It's still a very, very extreme tragedy that, again, as I've said, was funded by Soros.
The police collided the two groups together in that area to cause the crisis.
And we have this internal Antifa documents that George Soros' son funds.
In 2015, they tried to cause martial law in Maryland by having the police work with Antifa to try to get the black community to riot, but they failed.
So again, they're mainly like an art department almost who go out and have authorizations in Blue Cities, the documents show, to go so far with police.
They're even allowed to throw bottles at riot police.
The police are told to stand down, again, trying to get others to riot.
But now they're going to the next level when they have full-page ads saying, rise up, remove Trump, remove Pence from office.
They are accelerating towards not just hitting people, they have a bike locks or stabbing people or beating people with metal batons as their favorite thing.
And then, of course, Proud Boys and others have stood up to him.
So they're called terrorists by the media for actually being defensive.
And so now Michael Savage has come out and called on Trump to order arrest of Antifa members.
And he goes over the fact that they're the new weather underground, that they're basically a bunch of professors and government operatives that are leading it and government bureaucrats,
and that's why they're protected, and that they're a clear and present danger to this nation.
The full video is up on infowars.com.
I think they've declared themselves to be a terrorist organization.
Savage said, pointing to a story from last month about how Antifa members strategized how they could carry out, quote,
ambushes and assassinations to further their political agenda. They're absolutely a domestic terror group.
What else can anyone call them?
And why are we going to sit here and let them go ahead and carry all this out?
And he says, they smear and try to destroy anybody who stands in their way, first verbally and now physically.
They're absolutely on the warpath. There's very little opposition.
So that's what's happening here is the Democrats have announced in Politico we're going to get even more ruthless and they're going to use their modern weather underground types.
Their shock trips to trigger the violence, just like they did at Kent State two weeks ago when Millie Weaver covered it or a week and a half ago.
They were trying to get a riot going. They were throwing plastic hand grenades that weren't real hand grenades and bottles and hitting the police and hitting the open carry group,
trying to get them to shoot them. And they were even announcing, you're going to shoot me like Kent State before. You're the government.
And all this crazy crap when it was the antifa that actually wants a big government to totally take over.
So this is a huge time to be alive, ladies and gentlemen.
And with 28 days left of the election, you know, they're going to get a lot more violent and try to provocateur events.
And I believe because they've already preconditioned everybody that they are going to attack a school or a university or a media institution using deep cover
operatives that will then be blamed on patriot domestic groups as an attempt to make the Democrats look like the victims.
We know that Bill Clinton and criminal elements of the Justice Department carried out Oklahoma City bombing.
And Bill Clinton said he got reelected because that bombing happened.
He was 15 points behind until that bombing happened.
He said that on Air Force One, to USA Today and others. And so when you see them all over the news saying Alex Jones says,
use battle rifles on the media and kill the media, but they never show any video or any photos or any text,
you know that that is preconditioning to first silence me before they stage the event and then clearly blame InfoWars.
And many other analysts have come to the same conclusion that I'm being set up and being prepared for a massive false flag event.
And then the entire Liberty Movement will follow.
First they demonize me, then they have people not stand up for me.
And then that way when the terror attack comes and is blamed on me, you won't stand up for me.
Other talk show hosts, other media, other conservatives, other nationalists and then like dominoes, it'll all be blamed on you.
Just like Bill Clinton, two hours after the Oklahoma City Building got blown up by his own operatives, blamed talk radio and Rush Limbaugh and called for it to be shut down.
So we're going to go to break with some more of what happened in Portland, the incredible footage and we're going to come back with even more of it on the other side
then we've got some clips of President Trump as well.
I'm Alex Jones, InfoWars.com, NewsWars.com. We'll be right back. Please stay with us.
No, no, no, he needs to see it.
Get his license plate.
Get him. Get him. Get him. Get him.
Are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong. Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305. Or order online, hbextract.com. Heart and Body Extract 866-295-5305. Or hbextract.com.
Health care reform is confusing. But whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor, or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the health care system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance. It is an association of self-pay patients who unite with like-minded people to share the cost of each other's medical needs.
Neighbor helping neighbor. Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
InfoWarsLife is bringing you a breakthrough in modern medicine. Introducing pollen block. We have found an extraordinary new, natural way to alleviate seasonal distress symptoms, including promoting clear nasal and sinus passageways, eye comfort, and respiratory function.
In the 1960s, researchers in France noticed that people who ate certain quail eggs experienced less seasonal immune and inflammatory responses. They began studying this effect in published trials, and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Pollen block is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine. In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of tryptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to infowarslife.com and grab a pack of our pollen block chewable tablets.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body, and it supports the inflow war. It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be, because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield.
Shut the f**k up!
Because I told you to.
Really?
Don't hurt them.
Yeah, brother.
Yeah, you little white little f**k.
You're a f**king whitey, aren't you?
The first amendment, get the f**k down the road.
Please just keep going the direction.
Please go the direction I asked you to go.
For Jesus' sake, don't turn right.
Please, you're walking traffic and they're getting f**ked.
You can turn.
You can just turn.
Just go.
Just go.
Just turn.
Please.
Please just keep going.
Now you're going to have to wait.
It's got cars coming.
Bro, what are we doing here?
Oh, you're going to South Carolina.
You know our little waves, the premises.
Oh, right.
North Carolina, love that.
Right.
The lights of premises because I'm white.
Go back to North Carolina where you came from.
We don't need your KKK.
We don't need your KKK for North Carolina.
Shut the f**k up so I can speak.
I got traffic.
I got traffic.
Ask me if I give a f**k.
I was talking to him, not you.
Thank you very much.
But I'm in the middle.
I'm in the middle.
I'm in the middle of this.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, if I can have some.
If I can have some.
If I can have some.
If I can have some.
Where is it?
Well, I can't.
If you're a radio listener, you hear of the shocking,
thuggish, trashy, cartoon level villainy
of these empowered thugs.
And you have police in the video,
in the full videos on them,
FullWars.com in Portland,
standing down while thugs in black
run around in just a cost random people
because they're white.
And it's mentally ill, insane white people
saying because you're white, you're bad.
They don't see the irony like AIDS Freelix
of saying, F you, you're an effing white male.
In fact, let's play a clip of AIDS Freelix.
You've never experienced infection in your entire f**king life.
Neither have you.
You don't know me.
You're a f**king white male.
You're a white man.
White people don't know who's white people.
That's right.
That's right. That's right.
And so they've gotten these shiftless people
that have no future,
who've been brainwashed by the community colleges
they go to, into militant Marxist-Leninist ideology.
They're funded by these big billionaire globalists
like Soros.
And they're making their move to intimidate this nation.
And as it continues to blow up in their face,
the Soros of the world don't back down.
They just escalate the violence because it's worked
in more than 20 countries that Soros brags
he personally has overthrown with similar tactics
like you see happening right now.
That's what started four years ago in Ukraine.
And he went on Farid Zarkaria and bragged it.
He funded it with Obama and the State Department
with $5 billion to overthrow an elected government.
So that's what we're facing in clear and present danger.
Now let's shift to the good news.
We saw Brett Kavanaugh sworn in yesterday
by the man that he formerly was a law clerk for,
Justice Kennedy.
And President Trump pointed out that he has been found innocent
because they never had any proof.
He never got indicted. He never got charged.
That means you're innocent.
But Don Lemon says, oh, no, no, no, he's still guilty.
Think of that level of brainwashing
and how the left is actually now assaulting our free speech.
Itself is attacking private property,
attacking the family, attacking medical rights,
and now attacking due process and innocent until proven guilty.
So the first thing Trump pointed out was
you have been found innocent.
There was no proof.
The FBI found absolutely no corroboration.
All the witnesses said it was a lie.
And the leftist media says, how dare you proclaim your innocence?
That's the ultimate crime is to say you're innocent
and then to be proven innocent.
This is beyond the Soviet Union
what they're attempting to launch
and how they're trying to turn this whole antifa leftist, racist,
mob rule system into a hurricane,
into a typhoon that will just erase our due process
and our 244-year-old amazing nation.
But Trump comes in and says the following.
I would like to begin tonight's proceeding differently
than perhaps any other event of such magnitude.
On behalf of our nation, I want to apologize
to Brett and the entire Kavanaugh family
for the terrible pain and suffering you have been forced to endure.
Those who step forward to serve our country
deserve a fair and dignified evaluation.
Not a campaign of political and personal destruction
based on lies and deception.
What happened to the Kavanaugh family
violates every notion of fairness, decency, and due process.
Our country, a man or a woman,
must always be presumed innocent
unless and until proven guilty.
Thank you.
And with that, I must state that you, sir,
under historic scrutiny were proven innocent.
Thank you.
You've got to go to infowars.com
and watch the full 30-minute ceremony yesterday,
how lovingly, how genuinely Trump reaches out to the family
and others who have been drugged with a mud
and traumatized and builds them up
and points out that everyone that put up with this intimidation
and everyone that stood against the thuggery
that we witnessed in Congress by Soros' hired goons
really are heroes.
The fact is that the Left's always been intimidating the Blue Blood Republicans.
But now that we've got libertarian Republicans in place,
they're taking over and it's giving courage to the old Blue Bloods
who are seeing which way the wind is blowing.
So this is a very, very exciting time to be alive right now.
And the intimidation of the Democrats and the thuggery and the bullying
and the attempt at mob rule has radicalized
the leadership of the Republican Party
because the Left is radical, so we have to meet them with radical truth.
Yes, it's radical that we're in this crisis,
but they're the ones that brought us here.
They're the ones trying to cause a major civil emergency.
And as Barry Goldwater famously said,
extremism and defense of liberty is no vice.
And then finally, you have Kavanaugh being sworn in.
Let's go ahead and finish this segment with this historic victory
against thuggery and against intimidation.
Then we'll be back after the break. I'm Alex Jones.
Mr. Kavanaugh, are you ready to take the opportunity?
I am.
Please repeat after me.
I, Brett M. Kavanaugh, do solemnly swear
I, Brett M. Kavanaugh, do solemnly swear
that I will administer justice without respect to persons,
that I will administer justice without respect to persons,
and do equal right to the poor and to the rich,
and do equal right to the poor and to the rich,
and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform
all the duties incumbent upon me
as associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States
as associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States
under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
So help me God.
Thank you.
Vercel Media has helped hundreds of companies and individuals
make their own cryptocurrency.
Decentralized blockchain solutions are making the world more transparent
and giving power back to the people.
Vercel Media has helped companies raise tens of millions
in the past year alone, structuring and marketing ICOs
to the thirsty crypto public worldwide.
Don't miss the cryptocurrency revolution.
Visit VercelMedia.com, V-E-R-C-E-L, media.com.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed
while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
Don't let life weigh you down.
HAPPIES is a powerful mood and stress support formula
that has your back against life's daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years,
HAPPIES can help you take back the day.
With our powerhouse formula,
HAPPIES can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body
in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
HAPPIES helps support during stress,
promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today
with HAPPIES from InfowarsStore.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park
or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com,
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day
to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time
and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy, and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park,
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality
before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you.
SupermailVitality.com
Definitely realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
Infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scum bags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at InfowarsStore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart
and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Sorrel's the global Spain win.
This is Infowars Darker Sour.
We're your support.
I'm counting on you.
Waging war on corruption is Alex Jones
coming to you live from the front lines of the Infowar.
America has hit bottom in many respects.
And it's only when you really start to hit bottom in life
or in a country or in a nation or a system
that you begin to see goodness rear its head.
And that's happening.
And the bullies and the globalists and the chai comms
back by the EU and Hollywood are now in a full temper tantrum
to force us back under their submission.
As I've said a hundred times in the last couple of years,
they thought we were intimidated.
No, we were actually asleep.
They'd put a bunch of yes men and women into Congress
and other areas who were intimidated, but not us.
And so America's been sold out to the communist Chinese,
has been sold out to big tech, but now the excesses
of Silicon Valley, the excesses of Hollywood,
the excesses of these cultural elites that have disdain
for their host, like parasites always do,
are in a insane rage because their entire identity
is about dominating you and your family.
Now I've had the globalists come after my family,
trying to take my children away.
I've had the globalists try to destroy everything
we're doing here because they recognize we have courage.
They recognize that we have the spirit of liberty in our hearts
and that we connect with you, also have that spirit,
and that we have solidarity and that we bring each other together.
Just like President Trump said in his speech
when he was getting Kavanaugh sworn in last night,
that this is the spirit of America, the spirit of unity,
the spirit of our land, the spirit of our people,
our family, of every race, color and creed,
to come together and to say no to the demoralization
and the brainwashing and the divide and conquer
of the globalists.
And I've never seen Trump more pure and more from the heart
and more beyond presidential.
Trump is really stepping into his destiny
and stepping into what he was born to do.
And many of you are doing that as well, and I am as well.
Under the persecution, under the intimidation,
we still come out stronger and we see how we're changing the world.
Now, as you know, the globalists have taken all of our major sponsors.
They've taken our ability to even advertise ourselves.
Now, they're trying to take our ability to even engage in banking.
You know, we have perfect credit score and literally perfect merchant status.
Just no one has better.
No one else gets 2%.
Just perfect record because we eat the charge backs ourselves.
Ladies and gentlemen, they're doing everything they can to shut us down.
They're doing everything they can because we've won.
We are excellence, just like President Trump was first in his class.
Just like he never run for office and he won.
The globalists hate the excellence that M4 has been number one in video and news online
and very dominant in talk radio as well,
just like Matt Drudge dominates news worldwide.
They want to shut him down.
It's because if you spread the word about infowars.com,
that they're doing everything they can to shut us down now
because the censorship, the attacks, the demonization, the fake lawsuits,
none of it has worked because people know the globalists are a pack of liars.
It's been a struggle, but we've adapted.
We've overcome the Streisand effect, balanced out their deplatforming of us,
but they want to silence us so they can now really demonize us and really lie about us
so we can't respond.
So this is a life and death thing for me particularly,
but also for the future of this country and your family.
But for me, in the very near term, I've studied globalists.
I know how they operate.
People are amazed that from my deep research,
I'm able to predict things at a rate that pretty much no one else can do.
And I'm not bragging about that.
I'm also hated by the globalists for that fact,
but also read their own source documents. That's really the secret.
They just think we're too dumb to do it.
And I'm not 100% sure, but that's only because they're not 100% sure.
Once they straw man you and demonize you, and then they sue you,
and then they bankrupt you, and then they silence you,
first they politically assassinate your name,
and then they imprison you or they take you out.
And I'm not even worried about that for myself.
I do worry about being able to take care of my family
and being here in the future for the serious trials and tribulations
we have ahead of us that are part of how God tests us.
So it's actually a blessing.
That said, my flesh wants to stay as long as possible.
My spirit's never felt stronger in the crucible
because I feel closer to God every day.
The media said, oh, he wants to die. He's closer to God.
Oh, look, he's saying he's ready to die.
That's like Patrick Henry saying, give me liberty or give me death.
It doesn't mean he wants to die.
He's saying I'm going to fight to the end, or Colonel Travis, victory or death.
So what really matters is what we do on this journey.
It's not the destination, it really is the journey.
But I believe, just like Trump's punched through them
and beaten them so far, that I can do this too with your help.
And I'd like to have my cake and eat it too.
I'd like to be here for my children.
I'd like to keep M4 Wars going.
I'd like to keep expanding it.
But we are to the most critical point ever.
And that's why now you need to make the decision today
to go to M4WarsTour.com and air filtration, water filtration, supplements.
You need to get products that are good for you and your family.
And you need to spend that money so that we have an extra war chest
in case they completely shut our finances down in the near future.
And you're not even able to get products from us,
even though I've got a warehouse full of them.
So I need you to get off the bench.
I know a lot of you are off the bench.
Maybe you've been in the game a lot, thank you.
But I need you even more, particularly middle class and wealthy folks,
that tend to sit on the sidelines more than just average blue collar people.
They're our biggest supporters. We appreciate them.
And get products that'll enrich your life like X2 or Secret 12
or Brainforce that are all about to sell out.
But we still have them at the biggest sale ever.
Free shipping store-wide, 50% off all the supplements.
That is the biggest sale ever.
50% off all the supplements, free shipping on top of it,
auto-ship and additional 10% off.
It's simply incredible, ladies and gentlemen,
you can cancel anytime with the auto-ship.
So M4WarsTour.com, M4WarsLife.com,
you need to make the commitment so I can gauge,
and I know you've been helping, you've been supporting, thank you,
but we really need to expand what we're doing,
not just stay at the same level,
because if the enemy can make us come to a standstill,
that means they're beginning to win.
And they're hitting us with everything they got,
and it's legendary what's happened, it's legendary what you've done,
how much you've supported us.
But we have the Christmas, Black Friday and Cyber Monday.
All the specials we had planned and all the product we bought
in the warehouse and the stuff coming in was for those big sales.
This is all of them rolled into one.
Now, I hope we're still around and able to do stuff then.
But literally, we've come down to this point.
So you get your order in, it comes through,
it's shipped out in days, if not that day, boom, you get it.
M4WarsTour.com, get in there today, take action,
we need your financial support, plus you get great products.
If you hit the support button on M4Wars or on M4WarsTour.com,
you can donate straight to us.
That's even better because we get all of that,
then it's not just like 20, 30% we make on these products
when we're discounting this much.
So thank you all for your support.
God bless you all.
It's a historic fight, we're turning the corner,
but those of us on the front lines are being punished
and I just really want to thank you all for your support.
But without you, Soros and Hillary and the Globalists are going to win.
Now back to Owen Schreuer, David Knight,
the rest of the great crew and all the big clips
they're going to be playing straight ahead.
Whatever local station you're watching or listening to,
however you're tuned in, please spread the word now
about M4Wars.com and NewsWars.com
and that local station you're listening to as well.
Word of mouth is unstoppable and when you take action
with God's help and prayer, you are unstoppable.
And the only way that they can actually
censor your word of mouth is to bully and intimidate you
like what they've tried to do to Kanye West,
but it didn't work and now he's actually going to be meeting
with the president, I believe that's this week.
But that's why actually talking about M4Wars
and telling your friends and family about M4Wars.com,
slash show for all the live content is so key now
because they're blocking us, banning us
and censoring us on the digital platforms.
So we're about to go to break here, but when we come back,
Alex Jones is going to have more critical intel.
So when we come back from this break,
Alex Jones is going to break down some more critical intel
as we near the midterm elections just 28 days away.
Voter registrations are reaching records in multiple states.
The media is trying to convince you the blue wave is inevitable.
I don't see it that way.
I see a red wave in the future and what does that mean
for the crazy leftist protesters?
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways,
including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism,
helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula
that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate
paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil,
now available at infowarstore.com.
To boost your child's mind and body,
with this fish oil formula,
you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive
and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow,
look no further. Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at infowarstore.com.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart,
brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, krill oil base, the real red pill,
it could become one of our fellow Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside,
including green tea extract, your Ramon daily extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up
while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
With all the great stuff that real red pill has,
it's also got the boost in it.
Get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com.
InfowarsLife is a brand-new product that supports your heart and body.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Look at the lines himself with the truth that it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Look at that beautiful headline, ladies and gentlemen, from infowars.com.
Trump, after meeting with Rod Rosenstein, Democrats colluded with Russia.
You heard that right, from Breitbart.
Trump, after meeting with Rod Rosenstein, Democrats colluded with Russia.
They think we'll be treated very fairly. Everybody understands that there was no collusion.
Now, there's three different things that could be happening here.
And I've got a pretty good idea that it's the first.
Mueller and the Democrats know that with the economy coming back
and with the Republicans set to win the midterms internal polls show
and with this historic realignment taking place and Gorsuch's and Kavanaugh getting confirmed
that Trump hasn't been defeated on a single front because America is awakened backing him.
The economy is at 4.8, they're about to announce.
So many good things are happening.
The demoralization and the demoralization of America that the globalists have been executing is falling apart.
And so they are beginning to capitulate and realize that it was Hillary with uranium-1
and the PPGate dossier and the rest of it who really colluded with some of the elements in Russia
that were actually being funded by the Open Society Foundation of George Soros.
So technically it's Russia, but technically it's not.
By the letter of the law it is, but not by the spirit.
And so now that it's coming out that China is really the big threat and puts pie chips in all the Apple phones
and Apple's conscious of it and working with Google.
As all this treason comes out, Trump has them over a barrel.
And they're panicking only 20 months and two weeks into this historic,
and boy do I mean historic, presidency.
Now clearly Rosenstein went in there and signaled,
because he's the one that set this up with Mueller, he is a rat, you name it,
that okay, we know we're done, we promise to stop this, we know you've beat us, and the report will come out soon.
Now we know they're at least telling him that because they realize it's all a fraud and he's awake
and they're buying time and they're lying.
So that's number two.
But again, we know they're beginning to capitulate, but are they really capitulating or are they lying?
Still it's very, very powerful sign.
And then number three, and I gotta say it, I'm not saying that QAnon is right,
but there are a lot of people like Corsi who I respected and do respect,
but he later said he thought it was bad, that believe a lot of it.
People like Lionel who's a smart guy, likes it and believes it.
SGT Bull or Silver Bull, I'm driving it for the exact YouTube channel, really smart guy.
He likes it. I just don't like it because it's like as one goes, we all go,
and it sounds like a fortune cookie sometimes and kind of like cult brainwashing like the Democrats do.
You know, they do those chants and stuff.
And a lot of us turn out to be truths, like a lot of what I say is true, in fact, my record's incredible.
My competition with the Q thing, when Corsi, an early proponent of it, came out and said it was bad,
I kind of said, okay, well, it had gotten a little bit weird and other people were posing as Q
and I couldn't tell if it was real and then I got attacked for saying, hey, I don't know if it's real.
So I kind of said, screw you. I don't know.
But if it turns out that Mueller was actually smoking out the Democrats and all this is true,
when he used to be the dirty tricks guy for the Clintons and for Bush and all them and helped cover up 9-11,
I mean, I still just don't buy it.
But if Trump can flip these people and these deals were made and this stuff really went on behind the scenes,
Trump did some stuff so sophisticated that when I'm wrong about something, I'll say I'm wrong.
I'm not saying I'm wrong yet.
And I would love to see the Democrats get in trouble. I'd love to see Hillary get indicted.
I'd love to see us roll up all these foreign powers.
I've just seen the whole Russiagate thing be used as a smokescreen for Chinagate,
which we, of course, have pioneered exposing.
So I don't know yet and it's really up for debate, really up for discussion.
But I'll tell you this, the people saying they're with Q and that I'm a globalist or that I'm with the Clintons,
that is 1 trillion percent BS to infinity.
And if Q is real, then those people really aren't Q because I work with the president.
I work with some of the folks in the campaign with a message of unity and free market in Americana.
And I told you Trump was going to win and I've been from the earliest days promoting all this.
And in the infowars audience built the platform, the launch pad for Trump to take off from.
That's why we're under attack. That's why the globalists are coming after us.
But that said, if Mueller doesn't just drop his fake investigation, which you know is fake,
but actually then uses it to smoke out the Clintons for all their crimes, then Q was right.
And I am just absolutely going to be flabbergasted.
But regardless, I would love to be wrong. I mean, mainly I've just been confused because you see,
you know, some stuff that just didn't happen.
And you know, some things that I just have trouble buying.
But regardless, regardless, infowars.com, newswars.com are covering all this, we're breaking it all down.
The big news is Trump says that Rosenstein rolled over and admitted that this is all BS
and that they're crying, Uncle, just in the face of the total success and everything that's happened.
But these people are so treacherous. I think Trump should still declassify all of the documents showing
what Mueller and all these guys did because he has the documents.
Reportedly shows Comey and all them in collusion.
And Rosenstein's the one that appointed Mueller.
So I say whatever the Inspector General's got, reportedly totally destroys them.
Release it. Let's find out.
Again, ladies and gentlemen, Trump's told us what's in there.
Congress has told us the information they have.
And so it's thermal nuclear. I say use it on the Clintons and these people because they're not going to ever give us quarter.
They're going to crawl into Iraq and then like a viper come back out and bite us on the butt every single time.
Okay, I am dealing with a whole bunch of serious issues today in the fight.
Please pray for info wars. Please pray for me. I thank you all for your support back to Owen shroyer.
But this is big news from right bar dot com. It's on info wars dot com.
And we should probably have a debate here on air about what this signifies and what is going to happen with 28 days, 27 days left.
All right. Thank you all. Don't forget we have the huge sale biggest ever free shipping store wide 50% off all the supplements.
Other big discounts as well.
It's Black Friday and Cyber Monday all rolled in to the next few weeks until we sell out of these products.
Because they're trying to literally shut down our merchant accounts and everything where we can't even take your orders.
And so my answer is just everything must go sell everything.
So we have a war chest to go into the next few months, regardless and then have workarounds.
We need your help. We're in the fight. We need your prayers. Thanks for the support.
info wars store dot com. But whatever you do, spread news wars dot com prison planet dot com spread the article spread the videos overpower the sensors and we will defeat the globalist back to Owen shroyer.
Well, I like what Alex said in that segment when it comes to maybe we should just have a debate about this.
So I'm just going to go ahead and open up the phone lines right now.
And the great crew here is going to start aggregating your calls one eight seven seven seven eight nine Alex one eight seven seven seven eight nine Alex.
And what do you think the deal is because the Trump Rosenstein meeting if we flash back just a week or two ago was the big thing.
Then the Kavanaugh circus happened and it kind of got brushed aside and then the meeting happened and it was barely even news.
And then Trump says the Democrats colluded with Russia after meeting with Rosenstein is the headline on bright Barton info wars dot com.
So what does that mean? Now we already knew that was the case.
This is a very mixed bag we're dealing with here and that's why I think taking phone calls and just having an open minded critical discussion on this is the best solution to try to figure
out an answer because Mueller has shown no signs that he's not anti Trump.
Everything Mueller's done or has said appears to be anti Trump.
I mean, look at the people that have been indicted.
They're not Democrats.
Manafort's no Democrat.
That man spent time in solitary.
Flynn's no Democrat. So why is Mueller targeting them? Is that part of the ruse?
Did Trump just flip Rosenstein in this one meeting saying here's all the dirt I got on you. You want to work with me or you want to go to jail?
Is it such deception that they're targeting Flynn and Manafort just to trick the Democrats?
I mean, this is truly a mixed bag here.
And then of course the QAnon stuff. My take on QAnon has always been the same.
I can't report on it because it's anonymous. It could be anyone. I think there's maybe at one point was a real QAnon.
Maybe now there is or isn't. There's obviously fake stuff out there and that's why you can't report on it because how am I to tell what's fake and what's not?
Where is Jeff Sessions in all of this?
So those are the topics we're going to discuss here on the Alex Jones Show.
1-877-789 Alex. But folks, please go to infowarstore.com and take advantage of these huge specials because we want to expand.
And I have a feeling if we get the right response to this sale, if you go to infowarstore.com and take advantage of this sale and fund this news operation,
I have a feeling Alex is going to make some big changes in the near future.
I really believe what he says when he's really testing to see where we can take ourselves.
How much energy, how much fuel we have in the tank to lift off to the next level.
So it all depends on your support at infowarstore.com. We'll be right back.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing.
And Survival Shield X2 is the pure iodine. No one else has this from deep earth crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get. It's the good halogen.
But instead they hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Myotrysilinium goes with it like a horse of carriage.
Silinium is an electrochemical. It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together. We have a combo of those. Just experience it for yourself.
Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff. Filter your water.
Yeah, I find myself some water filters. Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run, I think it'll be six months a year until we get more.
I hope we get more. This is the last run it looks like.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water. It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current run-down systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
So here's what you've got. A bunch of radicalized leftists incited by the mainstream media and the Democrat Party to go out and commit acts of violence based upon false narratives,
and they keep getting more insane. We're going to break more of that down, but let's go and look at another clip here of one of the men who,
well, I guess almost ran over some of these protesters. You can describe it how you want, but this is a guy who refused to adhere to the mob rule in Portland, Oregon.
Look at them beating the car. They have weapons. They're all masked up. There's one individual that stands in front of the car while he's trying to get away.
Speeds away. They chase him down. I mean, this is a mob of freak shows. These are mentally deranged people.
Now he gets out of the car and they kind of calm down for a second because they say, oh wait, there is a human. It is a human.
And then he gets back in the car and they start kicking the car because it's easier to just beat an inanimate object, but a human, see, they haven't gone totally numb to the world yet,
just numb to any intellect and common sense. So the human element of him still intimidates them a little bit.
But let's go to another clip of these protesters, guys. Roll clip 12.
Who in their right mind gets in front of traffic like this?
No one. That's who. These people are not in their right mind.
You're a little whitey. I'm a little whitey. Look at this guy.
You're blocking traffic. This garden gnome is standing in the middle of the road and saying this guy driving his car in the road is blocking traffic.
I mean, can you believe these people? I thank them for creating more Trump supporters and more Republican voters. I thank them.
Alright, guys, let's pull back from that. That garden gnome is, oh my God, the side profile.
But the Republicans are starting to wake up, listen to what Chuck Grassley had to say in response to these Kavanaugh protesters.
You've had people thrown out of restaurants. You've had people shamed and criticized online and obviously protesters in your face.
First off, do you believe George Soros is behind all of this, paying these people to get you and your colleagues in elevators or wherever they can get in your face?
I have heard so many people believe that. I tend to believe it. I believe it fits in his attack mode that he has.
George Soros, where did you hear that name first? Yeah, absolutely. Okay, bring that down. Now you have Vice News' glasses admitting some of the Kavanaugh protesters were paid.
These news actually spent a lot of time with the protesters over this past week. We saw the president say these are professional protesters paid by George Soros, et cetera, et cetera.
Who were these people? What was going on? A lot of them were normal people who were mad. We hung out with a group from Alaska who was very specifically talking to Lisa Murkowski.
A lot of them were Native Americans, which also played into Lisa Murkowski's decision. They actually felt a lot of respect for her because she brought them into their office, she had a real conversation with them.
And we also saw people who were organized. In that moment with Jeff Flake on the Hill, we talked to one woman who works for Ultraviolet who was paid. She helped steer people in the right ways to be able to confront.
There were people who were paid by organizations like Ultraviolet to try to harness that energy in a way that would make the viral moment.
Harness that energy. Feel the power of the dark side. Let the dark side feel you. Let the hate fill your soul. And then go find Jeff Flake and Lisa Murkowski and use the force of the dark side on them. That's right.
Assault them in elevators. Block traffic. Threaten to kill them. Tell them they're racist. Yes. Let the power of evil and hate fill your soul.
Stress is a natural part of life. Work, family, friends, and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down. Happies is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years, happiness can help you take back the day. With our powerhouse formula, happiness can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, happiness helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happies from InfowarsStore.com.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones show, and now your host, Owen Shroyer.
I don't know about you, but I'm personally glad Nikki Haley is not the ambassador to the UN anymore.
This is a woman who said, well, next time there's an event in Syria, we're going to blame Assad.
Wow. Real responsible, Haley. But even though I'm glad that she's out, that Warhawk, I have a feeling she'll be back pretty soon with political aspirations.
So maybe it's good news for the meantime, but watch out for Nikki Haley. All the Neocon Warhawks love themselves some Haley.
Let's go back to what I was talking about in the last segment, though, how the left is just going totally unhinged. I mean, this is insane.
So it's mainstream news. Everybody knows Soros is paying these protesters, and it's more complex than that.
You know, it's like, okay, oh yeah, Soros is just handing them money. There's like this weird thing.
It's like people, they can't understand the complexities of these issues.
So Soros uses his billions of dollars to fund front groups like move on and other things that then allocate those funds to local groups that then organize the radical left to go do whatever it is.
Protest, block traffic, you know, harass senators, whatever the case may be. So that's how it works.
But Trump is calling this out now as well. And let's recall George Soros went on 60 minutes and said that when he was helping the Nazis round up the Jews and steal their property, it was the happiest times of his life.
Now, you can say whatever you want about Soros now or whatever you think about those comments, you can't deny those comments. Those happened.
He said that on 60 minutes. That's a fact. Yes, he went around with his uncle, a Hungarian born Jew who's now banned from Hungary, went around rounding up Jews, taking their properties.
You can imagine where they ended up. That was Soros. He said that on 60 minutes.
But now listen to what Joe Scarborough says, Psycho Joe.
That dead intern out of his closet, right guys? I wasn't sure. By the way, I learned I didn't even know this. One of Diane Feinstein's first election victories, her opponent died, just like Hillary Clinton.
But I digress. Here's Psycho Joe talking about what Trump says, commenting on George Soros. Go ahead and roll clip 17.
On Friday, President Trump falsely claimed protesters were not motivated by their concerns, but by paychecks from billionaire George Soros.
That's a fact. Well, that's a very old tired anti-Semitic. Very anti-Semitic.
The guy worked with Nazis. Oh yeah, Joe. So George Soros, who was a Hungarian born Jew, but did work with the Nazis as a kid and said it was the best time of his life.
But now if you insult him, you're anti-Semitic. And if you report on him paying for all these protests, whether it be, you know, after three degrees of separation from his bank account, it originates from his bank account.
He knows where it goes. But if you report on that, well, that's just tired news. That's just, you know, that's just old news.
Thanks, Psycho Joe. Always good to have you on board the fake news train. But these protesters are getting worse now.
And in Vancouver, a man's truck was set on fire and it was believed because he had Trump stickers on it. Let's roll that local news report.
Cell phone video captures the moment right after a pickup truck parked outside a Vancouver bar goes up in flames, awakening neighbors in the immediate area.
I was asleep on my couch and like, it had been like 2.30 and then all of a sudden I hear a loud boom in the window shake.
As shocked as he was, nobody was more astonished than the owner of the truck.
It just took me by surprise. It blew me away.
I tried to do the right thing.
Johnny McKay left his truck outside the bar and grilled after some drinks Sunday night.
He returned early Monday morning.
He drinks like Kavanaugh. He's a rapist.
It was completely melted. The light bar on top was liquefied. It was just bad.
McKay is confident the fire was intentional.
Of course it was. They spray-paid Trump on the side of the truck.
And McKay says he has bumper stickers supporting the president.
There were two. There was one that said Trump 2020, make liberals cry again.
Oh, instead they just burnt your car to the ground.
Keep America great.
McKay says he didn't.
Firebound your car.
Trump, he just supports him now because he's the president.
But McKay adds it shouldn't even matter.
People just need to relax. They need to, you know, the world's not going to stop turning because somebody's an office that you don't like.
McKay is hoping this cell phone-
No, they want to stop it.
...coupled with the bars surveillance video will lead investigators to the suspect.
I just can't explain. I feel violated.
So here's the deal. Go ahead and pull out, guys.
You know, this is a very sensitive issue because, look, I tell people to wear their Trump hats out.
I mean, that's my solution to this.
I, you know, we sell bumper stickers and magnets to put on cars and everything.
I mean, but this is why this is the chilling effect.
This is why people don't put Trump bumper stickers on their cars.
This is why people don't wear Trump hats out because the left in this country.
And, you know, here's the thing too, because I talked to a lot of people behind the scenes who are liberals.
But, but, and they take it personally when I use the phrase liberal.
So I try not to use that phrase because it's really not fair.
These people are not liberals.
They're mentally deranged brainwashed stooges of the Democrat Party and the CIA Mockingbird media press,
which occupies the New York Times, the Washington Post, CNN and MSNBC.
And I've got some clips from some of that that we're going to play here probably in this hour to break it all down too.
But a real liberal right now just doesn't even want to talk politics.
These people are mentally deranged leftists, truly victims of Stockholm syndrome.
And, you know, I might as well just go to this now because I don't think anyone else covers this as much as me.
But I have been saying this on the war room and probably, you know, a handful of times when I fill in for Alex Jones here.
This is not rhetoric.
If we really cared about these people, if we really lived in a sane society, if we lived in a functioning society,
we would be putting these people in mental institutions.
These people need to be institutionalized.
That's not going to happen.
I'm not calling for that.
I'm just saying that's what would be done if we lived in a sane society.
We don't.
But I hark on this every day, mass mental illness, mass Stockholm syndrome, mass hysteria.
That's what we're dealing with here.
That is the biggest issue.
And it's a symptom of the CIA mocking bird press.
It's a symptom of the chemicals in the food and the water and the air.
It's a symptom of the propaganda in the education system.
They are the mass zombie hordes that have been totally brainwashed by all the propaganda, the flicker rates, the television, the food, the chemicals, everything.
You're seeing them activated now.
And I've been saying this.
But PJ Media has a great story by Christian Adams.
I was in the Senate gallery this afternoon when Justice Brett Kavanaugh was confirmed.
You would have thought I was at an exorcism in an insane asylum.
And it goes on to describe the events from an eyewitness in the Senate gallery that day.
But folks, you go listen.
Go listen to the video of the audio when Alex Jones went to the event when they were trashing his name.
He says, we're going to make America gradient.
What do you hear?
Every time with these people, these are demonic sounds.
These people, whatever you want to call it, demon possessed, brainwashed, whatever it is, there is something about these people that is not normal.
It's mass mental illness.
It's demonic possession.
It's deranged, unhinged behavior.
These people need psychiatric help.
It's already been diagnosed.
Trump derangement syndrome.
It's probably going to be in the DSM-6.
Seriously, what are we going to do?
So we're just going to allow these people to terrorize this country, engage in domestic terror.
They're going to start killing people.
That's what's going to happen next, folks, because we refuse to realize we have a mass mental illness problem.
The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world.
George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken.
Its former colony, the US, had to save the empire.
Was there ever a vote?
Who do we fight for?
The deep state began with World War I.
The United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset.
And fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
877-99BERKEY
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high-quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet, built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder,
bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body. It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
So we've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, InfoWars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at InfoWarsStore.com right now, and we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
If you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros the Global will spring with. This is InfoWars Darker Shower. With your support, I'm counting on you.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show, and now your host, Owen Troyer.
All right, I have phone lines lit up. We're going to discuss what do you make of President Trump saying it's the Democrats that colluded with Russia after his meeting with Rosenstein.
Did he flip Rosenstein? Was Q Wright and Rosenstein and Mueller working with Trump the whole time?
If that's the case, was it so deceptive they had to pretend to be against Manafort and Flynn? So all the complexities of that with your phone calls here soon.
But I want to go to a land of the unknown, a land of suspense. It's the InfoWars Mystery Science Horror Theater.
We travel a path through space and time where logic and common sense no longer exist.
We travel back in time to the Senate gallery during the Kavanaugh confirmation through the words of Christian Adams from PJ Media. Guys, cue the effects.
I was in the Senate gallery this afternoon when Justice Brett Kavanaugh was confirmed. You would have thought I was at an exorcism in an insane asylum.
Perhaps you were watching on television and heard the disruptions, though you certainly didn't see them.
The attunated audio probably didn't catch the frightening, incoherent shrieking, including the lingering screaming and howling as they were being dragged down the hallways outside the gallery.
If there was any doubt that the opposition to Kavanaugh was unhinged, uncivil, disruptive, rude, and borderline nuts, my experience in the gallery made it clear.
Mob rule is necessary, one shrieking woman shouted before security personnel could settle her down.
Another crazed woman later screamed, I will not consent. I will not consent. She was like a feminist automation. I will not consent. I will not consent.
Capital police were less forgiving and drug her out the doors and down the hallway.
I have visited mental hospitals for the seriously mentally ill and the shrieks from this woman were as odd and unearthly as anything I have ever heard inside a mental hospital.
They echoed off the halls and ceilings outside the gallery in decreasing but astonishing aptitude.
Then the roll was called and it sounded like the gates of hell opened up.
Nearly a dozen women interrupted in unison, shouting, howling, screaming in an unrecognizable venomous wail.
They wouldn't stop. There was a fury, a rage, a hate, a poison in the noise.
It wasn't prose, it wasn't strong, it was a swarming, shrill, swirling noise.
I leaned over to someone and whispered, pay attention, that's what the left sounds like.
Nothing they were yelling and howling could be heard.
It was the sound of all of them, in discordant rage fueled wild fury that was so unearthly.
I have never heard a sound like it before.
Senator Dick Durbin said a few weeks ago in response to the committee that these were the sounds of democracy.
No they weren't. These were the sounds of hell.
These were the sounds of a group of people tinkering with madness.
They were the sounds of an irrational unhinged and unmoored lunatics.
These people, these were the people who opposed Kavanaugh's nomination.
They were an embarrassment to themselves and to humanity.
And now we leave the Info Wars Mystery Science Suspense Horror Theater.
So there you go ladies and gentlemen.
You thought that zombie hordes were just in video games and movies.
No, they're at Democrat events and Democrat protests.
So that's what you get.
Now, when we come back, I'm going to go to all of these calls.
And I've got a ton of news that we're going to get to before the end of the broadcast too.
We're going to be taking your calls all the way up till the conclusion of the Alex Jones show today at 3 o'clock central.
What do you make of President Trump after his meeting with Rosenstein, which was the biggest story two weeks ago?
Then the Kavanaugh circus happened and the Rosenstein meeting came and went and nobody barely blinked an eye.
But then Trump said after meeting with Rosenstein, it's clear to me now that the Democrats colluded with Russia.
Of course, we all knew that already.
That was already news. Trump had already said that.
But what happened in the meeting with Rosenstein?
Did Trump flip Rosenstein?
Were Rosenstein and Mueller always working with Trump?
As QAnon has said, if that's true, was it so deceptive that they had to pretend to go after Manafort and Flynn?
It's really just all crazy. What do you think happens next?
Because here's the craziest part about this.
Whatever happens to the deep state here, whose names we now know.
What happens to the mentally deranged protesters if this goes down?
Obviously, it would be the greatest thing for the world to see the likes of Hillary Clinton put in jail
and the members of the Obama administration's crimes exposed and perhaps them put in jail.
So what the world needs, it's what this country needs.
But then what happens to these mentally insane people?
They're only going to get more delusional.
How do we bring them back to reality?
How do we settle these unhinged lunatics that are just getting more violent and more riled up by the day?
That's like the challenge behind the challenge.
It's like, yes, the real challenge is the existential threat to America and to this republic and to world democracy,
which is the deep state in the West that also works with deep staters over in the UN and whatever goes on over there too.
But if it all comes down, if it all is exposed, if there is justice in this country,
what do the shrieking zombie demonic hordes do next?
Because reality and facts don't influence these people's lives.
So that's the challenge behind the challenge that we're probably all going to have to face.
But you know what? That's why we sell emergency food at infowarsstore.com.
But we have massive specials happening.
50% off the entire Infowars Life product line.
50% off the entire Infowars Life product line.
That includes best-selling supplements like Survival Shield X2, The Real Red Pill, Brain Force Plus, Secret 12, Vitamin B12,
Super Male Vitality, and more bodies, caveman, excuse me, Ultimate Bone Broth.
That's the new formula we have.
All of it, 50% off. Everything I just said, 50% off.
Read the thousands of five-star reviews for yourself to see why these products are so highly rated.
And then take advantage of the massive specials, 50% off.
50% off super blue fluoride-free toothpaste. Order 10 of them right now, and you'll be set.
You'll be set for a year or two.
Give them to your kids. Send them out with your kids to school.
It's 50% off the entire Infowars Life product line right now at infowarsstore.com.
But you know what? That's not even enough.
Free shipping as well.
So half off the entire Infowars Life product line, and then just, you know what?
Let's just kick them a little free shipping, too.
We'll just throw in free shipping. How about that?
You weren't, you know what? 50% off. That was only going halfway, pun intended.
Let's go all the way. Free shipping as well.
50% off every Infowars Life product and free shipping at Infowarsstore.com.
That's how you take us to the next level.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gussett, Gene Company.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
X2, we were selling it for about three years, and then they found out how big it was,
and how much we were buying, and they said, oh, we want more money, more money,
and oh, this and that. And so I've broken my contract,
and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2.
It literally is so pure that if you put it in a peaker dish on top of 90-degree hot plate,
it gasses, like I dream of genie, and it's purple gas. I mean, that is so pure.
It just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now,
but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago,
so I get the price down, and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done.
I'm breaking the contract. Well, I broke the contract last week,
and so this is potentially the last run. In fact, right now it is the last run,
which there's Bible Shield X2, and we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, infowarstore.com.
If you have experienced it, no matter how great it is, I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time at infowarstore.com right now.
This is it.
Or call 888-253-3139.
Back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy, and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park, and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality,
so I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
The SuperMail in you is the SuperMailVitality from infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now, the tip of the spear.
Leading the fight to take back the nation.
It's Owen Troyer.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Well, Elon Musk landed a rocket again yesterday.
The Falcon was landed.
Falcon, yes.
So whether the Earth is round or flat,
or we live in a projection, or we evolved from primordial ooze,
that rocket still landed back on Earth.
And now you see why Elon Musk doesn't give a flip
about what people say or think about him because the guy lands rockets.
Yeah.
And the space race in the private market is really heating up.
Richard Branson says that Virgin is going to be in space in weeks, even.
So you got all that coming.
Lots of news, lots more clips coming here on the Alex Jones show,
but we've got phone lines lit up.
And specifically, I just want to ask about,
what do you think this Rosenstein meeting with Trump means to the deep state?
Is Rosenstein still trying to play Trump?
Does Trump know Rosenstein is trying to play him?
Or were Rosenstein and Trump working together the whole time as QAnon has alleged,
or in Mueller?
Did Trump just flip Rosenstein?
So it's all crazy, but in case you didn't hear,
the story is on Breitbart and Infowars.com.
Trump, after meeting with Rod Rosenstein, Democrats colluded with Russia.
And he says, I think we'll be treated very fairly.
Everybody understands there was no collusion.
So that means that at least in the meeting,
whether Rosenstein's playing Trump or Trump's playing Rosenstein or they're getting along,
they obviously came to the conclusion, look, there was no Trump-Russia collusion
and we know that's the case.
So why is the probe still going on then?
Very interesting stuff.
Trump also said America owes Kavanaugh an apology and did apologize for America to Kavanaugh
during his swearing-in yesterday.
But the phone lines are lit up.
Let's start with Ashley calling in from my home state of Missouri.
Go ahead, Ashley.
Hey, what's up?
Bo and I'm on the way to St. Louis.
I just rolled through Indianapolis.
Anyways, what I got today is Alex brought a few things.
And what just so happened, there's quite a lot of Q-groups on Facebook
and one of them I kind of dabbled in.
I asked the question, do you, Alex Jones, in Info Wars, as part of Q?
Just out of curiosity what people would say.
And a lot of people said no, but they think that they give Alex a lot of credit
for waking up millions of people.
But there was also a lot of people on there that were accused in Info Wars of being controlled.
Ashley, we're losing you right here.
Let me just respond and we'll see if your connection gets better.
I mean, again, I have always had the same stance on Q.
And from the very outset, I never covered it simply because it's an anonymous source.
Maybe it's real.
Maybe it's not.
It could easily be co-opted.
I believe, obviously, it has been co-opted.
Whether it was real or not from the get-go, you can obviously see conflicting messages.
And then, like you said, the new QAnon thing is alleging that we're secret agents of Mossad or whatever the case may be.
Of course, it's ridiculous.
And so then, how am I supposed to take anything from Q seriously when I know that that stuff goes out there?
But again, it could be co-opted.
There could be five Qs.
There could be 10 Qs.
I don't know.
But Ashley, you were breaking up.
I think we got your connection back again.
Go ahead.
Yeah, so I just wanted to give you a chance to set the record straight on that.
Well, thank you so much for that.
I've talked to you before.
You drive a truck around, don't you?
Yeah, I just drove through Indianapolis.
I'm on my way to St. Louis.
I've been on your show a couple of times.
Who are you working through out there in St. Louis?
They've got a bunch of trucking stuff.
Yeah, I've trucked for a Woody Boogler out of, it's about an hour west of St. Louis.
There you go.
Well, I love it, brother.
Well, thank you for calling in and let me just respond.
Here's the thing.
I mean, it's like, if we took the time to respond to all of the craziness out there,
the rumors and innuendo about Info Wars or Alex Jones,
we would never have time to cover any news.
And of course, you know, I've, it's just nuts.
Look, okay, it's just insane.
We're lucky if we put our shoes on the right foot every morning.
You know, we're lucky if we remember to put our belt on.
So trust me, we're trying to get funding here at Info Wars store doing massive sales.
But so the point is, I appreciate you, you know, saying, hey, look, you know,
you want to respond to these rumors that Q says about Info Wars on air.
People can believe whatever they want to believe,
but as one popular commentator, Mike Cernovich says, show me the results.
What are the results of Info Wars?
All right.
Thank you so much for the call.
Let's go to Joseph calling in from Colorado. Firelight.
How you doing on?
Good.
That's great.
Good to hear you guys out there keeping on, keeping on.
Keep the faith.
Don't give up.
I know it's tough.
These people consume by their hatred, but, you know, we're fighting a good fight.
I'm convinced personally that China is the one responsible for all this,
because now after the revelation that we've seen all these microchips and everything,
it looks to me like there's some kind of soft takeover that was in place.
And I think Obama is going to sell everybody out, to be honest.
This is an interesting point.
No, no, no, hold on.
Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's pontificate on this a little bit.
People, people, this is honestly so complex.
It's like, I don't want to say the wrong thing or even the right thing here because it gets so taken out of context.
And I just know how that goes.
So I'm going to try to not say the wrong thing here, but basically what you're saying is more accurate than you realize.
And you essentially had the Chinese communists running the Democrat party trying to get Hillary in.
Now, I'm not sure if Obama was part of that cabal or as much as, as Hillary definitely is.
I think Obama had his own stuff going on.
And then because it became so popular that the Democrats had to work with Obama.
But, and so maybe that's why Obama could turn on all of them.
But I don't really know if that's the case.
But the point is, absolutely 100% Joseph, it was the Chinese Communist behind the Democrats and still to this day are behind the Democrats.
The day which he won about Trump and his relationship with China, it's like this whole trade war thing.
Now they have classes on college campuses about Trump's trade war.
This is unbelievable.
And this is, again, Chinese propaganda.
And then I have to sit here and know, oh, you're going along with the false dichotomy between Jews and China.
It's like, no, you're the one obsessed with the Jews and whatever the Zionists are doing, which is fine.
That's out there.
I'm looking at what China is trying to do, the Communist to my country right now, which I'd rather have free market.
If you want to blame the free market on the Jews, fine.
I prefer the free market than the Chinese Communist market.
But just look at Hillary Clinton's private server, server owned by the Chinese.
Look at Diane Feinstein having a Chinese spy under her employ for 20 years.
And look at what President Trump is doing to China.
They say, Trump has started a trade war with China.
Okay, fine. So what has been China been doing to us then?
Trade rape, trade rape by China.
And so Trump gets into office and he says, hey, look, I'll get along with the Chinese.
I respect the Chinese leadership.
I mean, they're much smarter than our leadership.
Look at how they stole our economy right out from under us.
That's how dumb our leaders are.
So Trump says, okay, we're not going to let China steal our economy anymore.
And we're going to have fair trade and we're going to bring manufacturing and jobs back.
That's what we're going to do.
So of course, China and the Democrats would do everything they can to try to stop that, Joseph.
So, so yes, we got 50 seconds left here.
Go ahead and close us out.
Well, at the end of the day, you know, rebellion is against God and revolution is against those disbelief in God.
The left seems to think that there's a civil war coming and I don't think that's the case.
I think it's going to be a revolutionary war against these banksters, pharmaceutical industry, against the entertainment industry.
And, you know, that that's that's where I'm directing my prayers.
I hope you guys do and keep the faith and may God bless you guys and may God bless all the faithful.
Powerful call from Joseph in Colorado.
Absolutely.
You know, I like that.
I actually said that yesterday I don't I wouldn't classify what's about to happen as a civil war because it won't be a civil war.
It'll be a mop up crew and it will be the revolution taking foot.
Yeah.
Get in the way of the Trump train.
Get flattened.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains one to 5% of active ingredients, but our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at infowarslife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by infowarslife. Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber, a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria, which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
Infowarslife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon, but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, Infowarslife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and omega-3s found in our high quality, ultra-pure krill oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and omega-3s, Ultimate Krill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what krill oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil.
Now available at Infowarsstore.com
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further. Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at Infowarsstore.com
Waging war on corruption, you're listening to the Alex Jones show. And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
We're taking your calls.
Trump just met with Rod Rosenstein, seemingly in the dark of the night. It was the biggest story two weeks ago, then it came and went and barely blinked an eye we did.
After meeting with Rod Rosenstein, Trump says it was the Democrats that colluded with Russia, I think will be treated very fairly. Everybody understands there was no collusion.
What do you make of that? What is the nature of the relationship right now between Trump and Rosenstein?
And what do you think about QAnon? Was it ever real? Were some of the points put out real? Or what do you think about that?
So we're taking your calls. We've got Joe in North Carolina up next. Go ahead, Joe.
Hey, Owen. How's it going? I love your show. Love your hosting. I just wanted to make a shout out as well.
I love when Ali hosts on there on Infowars. It's a great show. Take all your products. They're amazing. They've definitely changed my life.
As far as Q's concerned, I've sort of watched it from the very start and heard things about, oh, you know, it was General Flynn was the first one who started it, then it switched over to other people didn't have the same control.
And, you know, there's been some things that are persuasive from Q, but then obviously some, you know, cookie cutter, like fortune cookie type stuff.
Yeah, there's definitely, I mean, people, I was an editor for a long time at student newspapers in high school and college.
So you can tell writing style and it's a very, very telltale sign writing style where basically you can tell who wrote something without even knowing the author just by writing style.
And so you could tell that QAnon in the beginning, at least there were there were a couple of writing styles that were consistent.
And then there was a really consistent writing style for a while. And then it just kind of had no consistency.
So there were definitely more than one people posting whether any of them are real or not is not the point.
But you can tell by the writing style that there were definitely different people, you know, being QAnon at least at one point.
And by the way, pull that story back up, guys. I'm not sure that is it. That is the story.
That story right there changed everything. Let me explain why.
This is from NBC News, how three conspiracy theories took Q and sparked QAnon.
Now, actually, I'm not sure if that's the original headline, but basically Trump had a rally either the night or two nights before that NBC News published that article.
And there were dozens of Q signs, huge Q signs, they took over the broadcast basically after that.
And that NBC News story, any no longer at Trump rallies, could you bring in a sign they banned signs after that.
Now, if you think all that's a coincidence, I got a bridge to sell you in the loss of the Atlantis.
So so that's just interesting that you bring that up. But but go ahead, Joe.
Yeah, I mean, most definitely, I mean, one of the things that I guess turned me off from Q was when you started attacking like Corsi and people like that.
It was definitely a difference in the writing style and the way that you was sort of, you know, dispensing information.
But I guess the question I would have to more Q followers now is that, you know, if you're if you're starting a movement where you're trying to enlighten people like you say,
and you're starting to, you know, get all these people together and get a movement together.
I don't think the Q followers understand the ones that are hardcore understand that when somebody that doesn't know about the movement is asking a question,
that attacking that person is like a bot or whatever, calling them crazy.
And then they viciously attack people just for you, literally asking a question.
Well, isn't that the risk, though? Isn't that the risk of social media in general, Joe? Because, you know, I'll tell you, this has been one of the strangest things.
And I honestly, I'm like, I'm so sick of social media, folks. It's so unhealthy for you. It's so unhealthy for you.
And what Joe is talking about right now is kind of the point. There's so many bots and fake accounts, and you don't know what's real and fake.
Even when it comes to Q. And it's like, look, I don't care. There's probably millions of people that follow Q and info wars.
And so, you know, it's just like, let's get as much information and try to sort it all out.
But who knows? I mean, how much of Q is just trolling? I mean, how many people, when they saw the Q post, Alex Jones and Info Wars is an Israeli operation or whatever the claim is,
how many people saw that and were like, oh my gosh, yes, and shared it everywhere and thought that was the big thing?
Because that's what they're into. They're into claiming that we're Israeli shills or whatever it is.
So how much of it is just like trolling people to get a response out of them?
But real quick, I got to tell you, I sent out a tweet the other day, and if you guys want to pull up at war room memes and just see all the responses,
I put out a tweet saying, put your Superman cape on. And it was a picture of the Make America Great Again hat that Kanye West wears, the red classic one.
Because he said it's like putting a Superman cape on. So I use that analogy and I'm telling you, I've never had more response on social media from leftists.
And you see the derangement and then you see that they're all saying almost the exact same thing and you have to sit there and ask yourself,
are these people even real? Are these thousands of responses? There's the original tweet.
But guys, I put out images of all the responses. Actually, you can go through the replies too, if you want.
But you have to ask yourself, are these people real? Are these people really that deep into the cult and group think that they all naturally organically say the exact same thing?
Or are these literally fake accounts? I don't know. And honestly, I don't even care.
So I was like, why am I dealing with this crap? So I don't know. I'm kind of going off the edge here, Joe. If you want to bring it back home before we let you go, go ahead.
No, I mean, I definitely agree. I mean, you look at anything on mind and there's a huge shake down that happens no matter what you say.
I mean, you don't know whether to tell us somebody's a bot or not, but you can sort of tell probably by the amount of the same things that people say over and over again.
But again, I mean, to the few people, if you're trying to get people in your movement and your whole question, everything, everything has meaning,
it probably wouldn't be beneficial to your movement and to the enlightenment or the enlightening or the calm before the storm,
and stuff to attack people that just ask questions when your whole premise is based on asking questions.
So it just, again, it just sort of makes people look like fools. And again, that cult-like behavior, because you do have turnover.
You do have people that do follow, you know, InfoWars, thank you. You have people that don't follow InfoWars, that follow you and vice versa.
But again, I just want to say, great job on y'all at InfoWars. Alex, everybody does a great job.
Y'all were the reason for myself taking the red pill. I can't ever thank you enough for that.
Again, I love all your products so much, you know, BrainForce. I wish you the survival shield that's going to be coming out.
You know, with more of that, I take that. All of the products are awesome. I love them.
And again, if you're, you know, the only request I can make is if you could get Ali on there more hosting, I would love that.
He's one of the great hosts, and I think, you know, it's a great show in general. So God bless you.
You have a great day, man.
Thank you, Joe. Yeah, Ali Alexander. Every once in a while hosts the fourth hour.
A good new, kind of more of on the philosopher end of things for political commentary.
But yeah, and survival shield X2 is on its last run right now, Joe, so make sure you take advantage of 50% off.
All right, let's squeeze in a quick caller here. Let's squeeze in Carlos from Canada before we take a break. Go ahead, Carlos.
Thank you. And just a very, very brief comment on Jeff Sessions.
President Trump met him in 2005 when he gave a presentation to a committee of the Senate for the renovation of the United Nations building.
And he was very impressed with Trump at the time.
And Senator Sessions subsequently endorsed him and supported him.
If you know the candidacy of President Trump, he was opposed both by the Democrats and internally in the Republican Party.
Oh, and let's expand on that. Let's expand on that as Nikki Haley is, you know, she's resigned today. I'm celebrating.
I mean, I am the least bit of a fan of Nikki Haley. It's like, oh, gosh, and I see these conservatives, you know, oh, Nikki Haley is so great.
Oh, I hope she comes back. Oh, run for president. I'm like another neocon Warhawk that blames leaders of countries for acts of war that never even happened as a presumptive measure.
I mean, that is that is so irresponsible. I mean, let alone almost sick. And that's Nikki. Yeah, no, get out Nikki Haley.
But let's but here's my point to the caller. Let's not forget, folks.
And I'm not throwing stones here, even though I think it would be fair to. But, you know, we don't like to divide here.
The point is that I mean, Info Wars was one of the first, if not the first news organization to say, no, Trump's the real deal.
He's going to win. And you go back and you look a lot of these big conservative names. I'm not going to name them.
I don't think they're the enemy. But Nikki Haley was one of them were never Trumpers during the campaign.
They were never Trumpers up till July when Trump got the Republican nomination. So let's not forget.
I mean, big names, big names. I'm just going to leave it there. Almost all of them were never Trumpers, folks, until the nomination in July.
You don't don't do not think for one second, Trump does not have a list of all those people that were anti Trump during the nomination process.
Nikki Haley was one of them, folks. So don't just just Trump does not operate isolated.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage. And that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
At the Apple Store and Google Play, you can join the InfoWare today. Check it out right now at infowars.com forward slash app.
It's the InfoWare's official app taken on the globalist at point-blank range. And with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients. Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWare's life is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWareStore.com.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones show, and now your host, Owen Shroyer.
Viewer and listener discretion advised for this next segment, because we're going to show you where the left is going right now in America, and it is truly disgusting.
Oh boy, so with Don Lemon last night, you know, they're still parading Stormy Daniels around in her girls, so she's on CNN with Don Lemon last night, and you know, maybe actually, maybe this is exactly what we would expect from Don Lemon.
I mean, Don Lemon came out as gay on New Year's a couple years ago. He was dead drunk. I mean, really, a good moment for Don Lemon's career, I would say.
So actually, I guess this segment would make sense for Don Lemon. Here's Don Lemon wanting to talk about Trump's member.
You said you don't have many regrets, but the one that you have recently is writing about the president's private parts. Why do you regret that?
I don't really regret it. I just have a couple moments where I'm like, ooh, that was kind of mean, but then I look back at all the horrible things he said about other people and women and calling women pigs.
Other women, though, not you, right?
Hacking girls' weights and their looks, and then I don't feel so bad. But I don't agree in general with body shaming, but I was backed into a corner. I didn't really have a choice. I'm not a liar, and that's basically the only thing I could say to prove that I'm telling the truth.
What?
So to prove she's an honest person, she writes about Trump's male member and leave it to the lowest wattage light bulb at the local convenience store, Don Lemon, to bring that up.
Stormy Daniels. Look, I mean, if the left wants to use Stormy Daniels to try to bring Trump down, I mean, that's, you know, fine with me. It's not going to work.
She's gotten the key to the city in L.A. She's had streets named after her. She's had millions and millions of dollars worth of marketing, doing these interviews for her porn tour.
I think it's great for Stormy Daniels. She got a million-dollar book deal. Her creepy porn lawyer, Abinadi, brings forward false allegations.
And now the Democrats are attacking him for getting Kavanaugh nominated because of his fake allegations, and now they created a situation like the boy that cried wolves so nobody believes Ford.
Oh, the Democrats are in total collapse.
But I'm glad that Don Lemon wanted to get the very distinct details about Trump's genitals, you know, leave it to Don Lemon. He's into that kind of stuff.
So I would actually send Don Lemon to this clip. You may not realize this, Mr. Lemon, but if you want a more graphic, detailed, you know, imagery in your head of Trump's male member, which I guess you think about all day, but that's fine.
Here is Jimmy Kimmel's having Stormy Daniels on his show. Folks, I'm serious, though. This is actually really disgusting that this is what I guess you could call comedy, quote-unquote.
This isn't funny. Maybe it is to somebody. But look at what Jimmy Kimmel did on his late night show with Stormy Daniels just a few weeks ago.
All right. He pulls out a tray of mushrooms.
That's epic. Did you do this yourself?
We had an arts and crafts day here and we put these together. So...
That is so disturbing.
If you had the lineup you mentioned and picking it out of the lineup, which of these mushrooms, orange mushrooms, would most represent the commander in chief of the United States military?
Can you hold it up so it's coming at me at the correct angle?
Yes.
They might fall off, though.
Oh! Is this the one?
It's a nubbin!
A what?
It's a nubbin!
It's a little nubbin!
So for real, like, you're not just picking out those mushrooms.
Glad you guys are having fun.
Even the smallest one, but...
Because so are we. But you know where you have fun staring at mushrooms and imagining Trump's penis?
We have fun setting economy records, bringing the jobs back, having fair trade, ending political correctness, having pride in America.
That's fun for us. If fun for you is imagining Trump's penis, have at it, baby.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWords is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party.
Leftist CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is, and understand how real this fight is, and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us, and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at infowords.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags. We'll win.
We have huge sales at infowords.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you,
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce, and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Global Spain win.
For Soros Darkest Hour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
In response to the Trump-Rosenstein meeting, which was a big story, then it happened, and it was a nothing story.
And then Trump comes out and says after meeting with Rosenstein,
the Democrats colluded with Russia, I think will be treated fairly.
Everybody understands there was no collusion in the Trump campaign.
So we're taking your calls on that. Does this prove there's an element of truth to Q?
Do you believe Q? Do you follow Q? What do you think the deal with Q is?
Those are the issues we're taking calls on today.
I do want to just kind of steamroll through some news here before we get back to the phone lines, though.
Again, ladies and gentlemen, again, Antifa and the left is getting out of control.
In fact, I mean, look at this. Just look at these headlines.
Man defies Antifa's illegal street blockade and the media says he plowed through protesters.
Well, no, that's not what happened, but I'll tell you what.
You know, and they're going to say, oh, Owen Schreuer is calling for violence.
No, how about I just tell it like it is. If you're standing in the middle of a road and there's traffic,
and you get ran over by a car, you're the jerk. You're the jackass. You got what you deserved.
Yeah. Oh my gosh. Owen Schreuer says Kavanaugh protesters should be run over by cars.
No, I'm saying get out of the freaking road.
Video Antifa thugs block roads, direct traffic, threaten people who don't obey.
When is the headline going to read video Antifa member gets flattened by truck.
We don't want that to happen. So get out of the damn road.
Let's go on. Antifa arsonist vandalized pro Trump truck and torch it.
And they fire bombed a truck because it had a Trump sticker on it.
Very loving, very tolerant, very liberal.
Rosemont educator on leave after tweeting kill Kavanaugh.
A Rosemont special education teacher has been placed on paid leave for tweeting to kill Brett Kavanaugh.
Yeah, she probably got a promotion, a little raise to pay vacation. You tweet you. Hey, you tweet out kill Brett Kavanaugh.
Paid vacation, baby. Let's get it.
Michael Savage calls on Trump to order arrest of Antifa members.
Well, look, the street thugs of Antifa are probably, yes, deserving of an arrest,
but it all starts with the Democrats and their rhetoric and their calling for violence.
It all starts with the Soros funding. You have to cut the head off the snake and the body will die.
Google executive slams GOP over Kavanaugh nomination. F you all to hell.
That's just projection. They're living in hell right now because they hate America so much and it's kicking so much ass and it just keeps winning.
This is like if you're a sports fan. Let's say you're a sports fan, the Patriots or the Yankees.
And you hate the Yankees and the Yankees just keep winning and the Yankees are winning the World Series.
You hate the Yankees. Go to hell Yankees.
That's what these people are like. America keeps winning. They hate America so they're living in hell.
California's DMV finds 1500 more people possibly wrongfully registered to vote.
No, it's not possible. It's a fact.
And many of these thousands of illegal registered voters were non-citizens.
Uh-oh. Are they cracking down on the Democrat voter base of fake voters before the midterms?
Folks, look. Honestly, the Democrats have no chance at a blue wave.
What Kanye West and Candice Owens have done at the Democrat Party is literally cut its legs off.
Without the black vote, the Democrats have nothing. And if people are actually going to crack down on all the illegal voting
that the Democrats get from non-citizens and just people who register five times or register fake names,
the Democrats have no chance. I mean, none. This is before even mentioning how great Trump is doing
and all the winning and the economy and the lower taxes, that alone should put Republicans in.
Oh, but Candice Owens goes to an all-black college and I think there were thousands of people there,
gets into a heated debate with them, but has positive moments and then has a positive outcome.
Yeah, the Democrats are screwed, folks. They're screwed.
Because their illegal votes are getting knocked out and black people aren't going to vote for them.
So that's why they're in panic. That's why they want to bring all these non-citizens here.
Oh! Okay, let's just close out with the craziness from the left here.
Flea-born typhus spreads across Los Angeles area.
I shouldn't be laughing, but California is so out of sorts and out of whack and out of control.
There might be a plague in California, folks. I mean, there could literally, a plague could break out in San Francisco.
You think that's a joke? It's not.
And I had a story somewhere here. I can't find it on my desk. It was from the New York Times.
Shocking, I know, from the New York Times. They published a whole article of someone that was from San Francisco
basically saying how the city is basically like a hellhole.
And now I can't find the story. I'm upset about that because it was a good story I wanted to cover.
Of course, can't find it in my stack of news all of a sudden.
In fact, guys, just see if you can pull that up for me because this is bothering me now.
Because I wanted to tie this in to Los Angeles having Flea-born typhus.
San Francisco is a joke.
Needles and feces all over the streets. I mean, homelessness is rampant.
And it's not just homeless people. They're like, I mean, these are deranged people that are homeless roaming the streets.
This is crazy, man. I know I had that story.
Well, whatever.
Moving on. UNC Asheville professor charged and accused of taking a political sign.
So they caught this woman on camera and she had an accomplice as well.
And they're going around taking signs. She got arrested.
This is a professor, a college professor, going around, running around with probably a professor colleague of hers,
stealing conservative lawn signs.
So again, the left is just engaged in crime after crime after crime after crime.
These people can't stop.
Oh, oh, oh, guys, how long is the Hillary Clinton video?
I can't, I can't, I can't.
Okay, okay, I'm going to go to that in a second.
But first, Sanders, Bernie Sanders barnstorming country ahead of midterm elections.
Bernie Sanders is embarking on a nine state battleground tour on behalf of Democrat candidates campaigning in the November elections.
Bernie Sanders is an independent who ran as a Democrat, but then went back to being independent after he lost.
Why is this happening?
Well, Hillary Clinton and Bill Clinton are also about to go on a massive tour.
And Hillary Clinton is doing a bunch of stuff right now.
But, but, folks, I'll tell you right now, I think, and we've reported this before.
But, but now I'm more sure than, than I've been in.
I'm not 100% sure.
I'm saying 8085.
I think the Democrats are getting Hillary ready to run again.
I'm dead serious.
They have nothing else.
And they may try a Sanders Clinton ticket.
But I'm telling you, they would not be rolling out Hillary and Sanders like this unless they really planned on running them for president.
I really think they're going to run Hillary Clinton again, which is awesome.
Why?
Hillary Clinton is now basically campaigning again.
What happens when Hillary campaigns?
She coughs out of control.
Look at what happened yesterday when Hillary Clinton was campaigning.
Here she is walking out.
You can hear the coughing.
It's amazing.
You can pick it up from so far away.
I think they're screaming.
They just got hit with the Clinton pathogen.
Just look at how she walks, folks.
This is a very sick lady.
Very unhealthy.
On the doorstep of hell.
Make sure you don't get a port on you.
You'll melt.
So there's Hillary Clinton.
Another coughing attack.
They're getting ready to run, folks.
They're going to run.
They have nothing else.
They have nothing else.
What else are you going to do?
You might as well throw Clinton in the ring one more time so you don't burn some other Democrat in the future for a loss for Trump.
They're going to run Clinton.
I think they're going to run Clinton Sanders, guys.
Oh, this is going to be fun.
We'll be right back with more of your phone calls.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Make TV.com.
Hunter's, anglers, campers and survivalists.
Get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos on the market at slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com, or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it in a month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today, infowarslife.com.
News today and now, your host, Owen Troyer.
Typhus is breaking out in LA.
I believe they've also had an outbreak in the last two years of tuberculosis.
Here's the story I was referencing in the last segment from the New York Times.
Thomas Fuller couldn't believe I read this in the New York Times.
Life on the dirtiest block in San Francisco.
Yeah, we'll pick the block.
The heroin needles, the pile of extra mint between parked cars,
the yellow soup oozing out of a large plastic bag by the curb,
and the stained faux persian carpet dumped on the corner.
It's the scene of the dirtiest block in San Francisco.
And there are some images on the New York Times story.
You know, it's just amazing to me.
It really is.
How do the Democrats, where does the left get off making this claim
that the Democrats are all about them?
In fact, you know what?
You know what?
Because the timing is now.
I got to go to this clip, guys.
Go to clip, and I promise I'm going to get your phone calls.
Let's go to clip eight here because it's just so ridiculous.
Who runs the inner cities of Chicago, the inner cities of St. Louis,
the inner cities of Baltimore, the inner cities of LA, San Francisco?
Who runs these inner cities for 50 fricking years?
The Democrats.
What has happened to all these Democrat-run cities in the last 50 years?
Poverty's increased.
Homelessness has increased.
Disease has increased.
It's everything.
And then people like Angela Rye are going to sit here and virtue signal
for the Democrats, like they're the party that deserves the vote
of black people in inner cities.
Listen to this propaganda from one of the worst in media, Angela Rye, on CNN.
Is Donald Trump making America great again?
So I take issue with the question, frankly, Chris,
because for me, for my community, this country, frankly,
has struggled to be great for some time.
Pause it right there.
Let's just clarify her community.
You know, she's virtue signaling to black people out there.
You're a millionaire.
You don't live in these communities.
You're a fraud.
But you virtue signal for your people as if you know the struggle
because you're a millionaire lifestyle.
Give me a break.
You've been enriched since the Trump presidency.
And you're going to sit here and verse your signal for your community.
That's not your community.
Let's go back to the fraudster, Angela Rye.
Actually, an emotional trigger for many of us,
because I'm trying to harken back to when that again was, right?
During the election, Donald Trump supporters were asked
when America was at its greatest.
And his supporters, more often than not,
replied with sometime around the 1950s,
well, the problem with that era for me and for people who looked like me
is that that was before integration existed in this country, right?
That was the era of Jim Crow laws and segregation
that resulted in economic depression that to this day
we struggled to climb out of.
And so I would just ask when that again is.
That doesn't mean at all.
That I don't believe in the promise of the American dream,
but I don't see it happening right now for us.
And I didn't see it happen before.
So let's just be clear about this.
Now, either Angela Rye is a total moron,
or she's a member of the Mockingbird CIA press
putting out propaganda to racially incite violence in this country.
First of all, show me any interviews or clips
of Trump supporters saying about the 1950s is when America was great.
Well, what is she even talking about?
She just pulls that out of her rear end.
But that's beyond the point.
This is the propaganda at work.
If America was never great, then no country was ever great.
There was never any greatness on Earth if America was never great.
Name another country seriously.
And of course they can't.
Name another country where former slave,
an entire slave population in a country within 50 years,
can be totally independent, have its own economies, its own everything.
And even control the market in many instances.
Have to have top paid people in some of the biggest industries in this country.
And she's going to sit here and virtually signal and act like,
oh, America was never great for black people.
Okay, well, where was it then?
Where is it great for black people?
Is it great in Africa?
Written with disease and crime and slavery?
So this is this whole thing they do,
where they give you this total misnomer about make America great again,
and they say, well, America was never great.
So these people are obviously just virtue signaling for white people.
Now, she probably knows better.
She's a propaganda artist.
What is the truth, folks?
She knows when we say make America great again,
it has nothing to do with skin color.
It has nothing to do with a period of time.
It has to do with economic prosperity.
It has to do with financial independence, with low taxes.
It has to do with not taking a knee to the politically correct culture.
It has to do with not having an entire group of people that hate this country.
That's what we mean when we say make America great again.
But either your mind is so filled with propaganda and disease,
and sickness, and mental illness,
and obsession over identity politics that you can't even understand that.
All you can think about is your race-based identity politics,
so it doesn't matter what you hear,
you always turn it into something racial.
Here's the story Alvin Camero wears make Africa home again after Saints win.
Okay, go ahead, make Africa your home again.
Are you going to make millions of dollars playing football?
No. No, you're not, are you?
You're not even going to make a dime.
But, you know, that's fine.
And I don't even care.
He has the right to say whatever he wants.
He's the only one that'll even say it.
But here's my problem with Angela Rye, folks.
She wants to sit here and act like she's all about black people
and she's virtue signaling for black people.
She's actually the enemy of black people.
Because she is the one keeping black people down.
She is the one keeping black people in chains,
intellectually and psychologically,
and she knows what she's doing when she says,
these white people just say make America great again
because they want black people to be down in this country.
Sorry, during the State of the Union,
when President Trump said black unemployment was at its lowest,
was it the Democrats that stood and applauded that?
No, that was the Republicans.
The Democrats sat and pouted.
Was it Obama that got record low unemployment for black people?
No, actually it was Obama that had it near record highs.
So, yeah, we say make America great again
because we want economic prosperity for all Americans.
And it really makes me sick.
It really makes me sick that the Democrat Party still has
some black people in this country so brainwashed
that they really think that they have to vote Democrat.
The Democrats have run inner cities
which has the highest population density for black people
for 50 years.
What have they done?
It's amazing how you have people like Angela Rye
that keep complaining about how it's not fair
for black people in this country.
Well, you've been electing Democrats for 50 years.
So what have they done for you?
Nothing.
They keep you mentally enslaved.
They keep you financially enslaved by having you on welfare.
They keep you dependent by telling you to break up with your husband
so they can give you a paycheck.
That's all Democrats.
Democrats want black people down.
Democrats want black people enslaved mentally.
And then they use their CIA mockingbird press
like Angela Rye to say,
when they say make America great again,
they just mean they want black people down in this country.
You are a filthy, disgusting liar.
And it's sick that you claim to represent black people
yet you would lie to them and keep them intellectually enslaved.
That is sick to me.
That is sick to me, Angela Rye.
You are a poison to the black population.
You are a cancer to the black population and the media in this country.
You are Angela Rye.
Ever wonder how Bitcoin and Ethereum were created?
Vercel Media has helped hundreds of companies and individuals
make their own cryptocurrency.
Decentralized blockchain solutions are making the world more transparent
and giving power back to the people.
Vercel Media has helped companies raise tens of millions in the past year alone,
structuring and marketing ICOs to the thirsty crypto public worldwide.
Don't miss the cryptocurrency revolution.
Visit verselmedia.com, V-E-R-C-E-L, media.com.
To fight back against the chemicals in the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive,
to get to the gym, get to the park,
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality.com.
Today, with our powerhouse formula,
HAPPIES can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
HAPPIES helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being,
and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today
with HAPPIES from infowarstore.com.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now,
but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago,
so I get the price down, and I said,
if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week,
and so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run,
which is for survival shield X2,
and we've got a good supply that will be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, infowarstore.com.
If you have experience, you know how great it is,
I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time
at infowarstore.com right now.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence ever
and the heart of the Resistance.
And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
All right, some of the headlines we're not going to have time
to get to today.
Indiana Democrat touts support of Trump and bid to keep seat.
I wonder if that's a trend that we'll be seeing,
only if Democrats have a brain.
Shock Report, US paying more for illegal immigrant births
than Trump Wall.
Yeah, we also pay more to jail them
and feed them and shelter them and everything,
but we're the worst country on earth.
Meanwhile, Google has apparently dropped out
of Pentagon's $10 billion cloud competition bid
to house their data there.
And it may have something to do with the user data
that Google just exposed,
the private data that just got hacked.
So you've got that.
Then you've got a 240 per gallon gas tax
to fight global warming.
New UN reports suggest carbon pricing,
so they're going to try to roll that crap out
now that America has removed itself from all those fake deals.
UN report on global warming carries life or death warnings.
So the UN is now trying to cost us an arm and a leg
to drive cars.
And they're doubling down on saying basically,
get into some UN treaty to fight global warming
or we're all going to die.
Of course, they still fly around the world in their jets
and their fancy cars and everything and start wars
and test weather weapons and nuclear bombs.
But we need to pay for that.
Morgan Stanley, belief in American exceptionalism
among global investors has never been higher.
That's what happens when you have a president
that puts America first.
And antidepressants pose a threat to wildlife
due to their presence and water supplies,
says experts.
Wait, you're not talking about gay frogs?
No, couldn't be.
All right, we're going to take your phone calls here in a minute,
but first I need to tell you about huge specials
at infowarstore.com.
The entire line of Infowars Life products is 50% off.
So if you've ever been waiting to try a product
or you've been wanting to try a product but haven't pulled the trigger yet,
now is the time because the entire Infowars Life product line
is 50% off, whether it's ultimate bone broth,
whether it's super male vitality, whether it's alpha power,
whether it's survival shield x2, whether it's brain force plus,
whether it's bodies, whether it's super male vitality,
whether it's secret 12, it's all 50% off at infowarstore.com.
Now is the time to try out the prox...
Try out 2, try out 3, try out 4. Try out the ones that you've been curious about
while they're 50% off, see how it works for you.
And you know what, 50% off, that's kind of good, I guess.
I guess 50% off is a decent special, you know, that's okay.
But you know what, let's just go ahead and make free shipping tip.
So that's fine.
So we're going to go ahead and do 50% off the entire Infowars Life product line,
but we're going to take it one step further and we're going to go free shipping.
So 50% off all of the popular supplements at infowarstore.com,
and free shipping.
You cannot beat these deals.
And Alex Jones is saying it's the Christmas, Black Friday, Cyber Monday,
all rolled into one.
I mean, it's really just, it's like a clear out sale.
I mean, this is like a clothe...
These are ridiculous prices.
We're practically giving these products away, folks.
So take advantage, 50% off all Infowars Life products right now.
And you hear the people, they call in and they give testimonies about how great the products are.
We don't stage those calls.
We don't ask for that.
The products really work, folks.
50% off and free shipping on all Infowars Life products at infowarstore.com.
Thank you so much for your support.
You make it all possible.
That's how we were able to expand our live broadcasting to 10 hours a day.
And with your support, Alex is going to, he's going to take it next level,
but he's kind of putting the feelers out there to see how much we can really expand,
how much we can really afford to expand here.
That's kind of also the back end of this sale.
All right, let's go back out to the phone lines.
We're talking about Trump's meeting with Rosenstein.
He says he thinks we'll be treated very fairly.
Everybody understands there was no collusion except with the Democrats.
So what do you make of that?
Let's go to Tim in Montana.
Go ahead, Tim.
Good afternoon, Owen.
So here's what I envisioned happened on Air Force One the other night was
Trump threw down the Inspector General's report and said,
all right, Rodney, here's what we've got and here's what we can prove.
And here's what we know.
And Rosenstein squeaked back at him because he's a filthy swamp rat.
And Trump said, yeah.
And so then Trump said, so here's your choices.
You can either face a firing squad.
You can spend the rest of your life in Gitmo.
Or you could, you know, call off your Hellhounds and Mueller.
And let's let's level the playing field here and have an actual investigation.
Okay.
So you envision Trump flip Rosenstein just in this meeting?
I think it's been a long time coming.
I think what happened was with Trump, when he saw what they did to General Flynn,
he realized that this is just, it was a lot dirtier than he even anticipated.
Yeah.
And then when it came to Manafort, you know, he's playing chess.
But isn't that amazing though?
You say dirtier than he expected.
I mean, even me, I mean, we know what these, this is dirtier than even I expected.
I mean, Maisie or Roto?
What is going on with these people?
So that's the main, okay.
So Tim thinks that Rosenstein has been flipped by Trump based on all the evidence
Trump laid out upon him to say, hey, look, I got you red-handed, buddy.
Now, just to play kind of for fun here, you know, to bring the Q analogy into this too.
Remember, because you said firing squad, QAnon alleges that Trump actually told McCain,
hey, look, you're guilty of high treason.
You can either, you know, die a respectable death and the media can worship you and everything.
Or, you know, I'll come out and we'll lay down the record of all your war crimes.
And so basically QAnon alleges that Trump gave McCain the death penalty.
I mean, you know,
It's a little out there for me, but I just, I think that, you know,
Trump realized how, how, how dirty it was and he decided he's going to start playing a long game.
And when it comes to Manafort, you know,
We'll chase the season, my friend.
Some pawns and even, and even some, even some better pieces and chess.
You got to sacrifice and therefore, you know, he's got some baggage and it's, hey, Paul,
thanks for the help, go out and do your job.
You know, do what you do.
And if you truly believe in the cause, we'll see how it goes.
Well, and that's, that's just, that's just next level.
I mean, you know, that's like, you know, like we say with Tommy Robinson.
I mean, you know, Tommy Robinson knows his fate when he does this stuff.
Manafort, maybe he knew his fate when he was doing this stuff.
So who really knows what's behind that, but that's interesting.
Thank you so much for the call, Tim.
Let's now jump to Manny in Florida.
Go ahead, Manny.
God bless you all and Alex, everybody I am for wars.
I just want to start off and, you know, just let you guys know how amazing the products are.
I mean, everything from the Alexa pure breeze to the, I have a six month supply of this horrible food,
about a bulletproof vest.
I mean, and when you're talking about the nutraceuticals and all the products that have silver bullet,
anthropococcus, uh, survival shield, secret B12, B shield, liver shield, alpha power,
uh, biome defense, vitamin mineral fusion, living defense, super blue.
You know, Manny, here's the thing.
You are the one.
It's people like you that take infowars to the next level.
If we had a million Manny's out there supporting us like you do, we would be probably,
I mean, we'd be live 24 seven probably.
So Manny, thank you for making it all possible.
Really, really, that's what makes it all possible.
If everybody shopped at the store like you did, we'd have no problem funding anything.
Thank you, brother.
And I truly believe in the 360 wins, you know, so they're amazing products.
I'm not just saying that you guys are not paying me to call in to say this, you know, I'm in South Florida.
I'm just a loyal supporter and I know for a fact they will.
Well, and hopefully, you know, hopefully you don't need that emergency food coming up with the,
the hurricane approaching.
So, so hopefully that's okay.
It may miss South Florida, but we'll find out.
But you wanted to talk about Rosenstein and Mueller.
I've only got 60 seconds left.
So I wanted to make sure you could get your, your point out.
Cool.
Yeah.
So, you know, I believe that Rosenstein and Mueller, I don't believe any of it, you know, whatever happens is going to happen.
So I just don't believe in wants a swamp rat always.
So you're a, you're a just, you're a just show me the results kind of guy.
Yeah, for sure.
And as far as two men, I've always, you know, as soon as,
the gentleman that's in DC, the older gentleman that, of course, he,
when he was saying the stuff about you, you know, it made me kind of look into it.
And I just don't trust you to be honest with you.
Alex Jones has the reputation of, you know, everything he has said since 9 11,
all the stuff is just hard hitting the facts.
And why do they have to hide?
They don't, it's not like they're releasing classified information that's going to make them,
you know, go to jail or anything like that.
And then I just want to make a point on China.
I know for a fact we're at war, you know, the government isn't going to tell you,
but that's the reason why Trump is saying face for face.
And Manny is right because we have the Chinese documents folks.
They have been at war with America for decades now.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest,
most concentrated over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the info war
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates,
but a lot of us on the big island rely on rainwater
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles
and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels
of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain
can contaminate a rainwater supply.
More importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Selenium is an electrochemical.
It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together.
We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself.
Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff.
Filter your water.
Yeah, I find myself selling water filters.
Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run,
I think it'll be six bucks a year until we get more.
I hope we get more.
This is the last run it looks like.
SurvivalShortX2.info
or store.com
or infoorslife.com
or AAA 2533139.
As the years go by,
it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress,
you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients,
amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life
created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula,
the new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation.
Vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system
to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs
to support your body.
Using a proprietary process,
we've managed to make this powerhouse formula
into a delicious concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home,
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins,
minerals, amino acid, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting,
natural and affordable drink mix
with vitamin mineral fusion today,
available at InfowarsStore.com.
And now, your host, Owen Schreuer.
The only bigotry that exists in this country
exists on the left.
And that's why anyone that opposes them
immediately becomes a bigot,
no matter what your hair did, skin color, or situation is.
It's them projecting their bigotry out on everyone else.
But we're taking your phone calls here
talking about Trump's meeting with Rosenstein
and Trump appearing to get along with Rosenstein
saying now we know that Democrats colluded with Russia.
It was never Trump.
So we're taking your calls.
Do you think that Trump flipped Rosenstein?
Do you think Q was right?
And Rosenstein and Mueller were working with Trump?
I mean, what do you think about the whole madness?
Let's start with Tim in Florida.
Go ahead, Tim.
Hey, Owen. Good talking to you.
Thanks for calling.
Yeah.
A couple weeks ago, when Trump had that two-hour presser,
he was being asked questions by the reporters.
And I didn't see this anywhere in the media,
but he was asked, I didn't hear the question,
but it was something about, you know,
what do you think would happen if the Democrats got in power?
And Trump's answer was, I can tell you this,
if the Democrats do get in power, they won't be there very long.
And then he took the next question.
And that's like, he's, I think, obviously got a lot of information
that it's not being disclosed.
So I think Rosenstein may have flipped,
because I don't think he makes false threats.
Yeah, and I also don't think he bluffs either.
No.
He's not going to bluff the ace in the hole.
He's going to have the ace in the hole.
And he said it so nonchalantly, it was like...
No, that's interesting, Tim,
because I remember actually the press conference you're talking about,
I covered almost the whole thing live on the war room,
and I only missed like the final 15 minutes.
So maybe I missed that portion,
but I remember also in that press conference,
someone did ask him that, and he said,
he did reply by saying,
well, they're going to raise your taxes,
they're going to bring back all the regulations,
and they're going to kill the economy again.
So maybe I either missed the part you're talking about,
or somehow I got lost in translation,
but that's interesting.
I always saw the end of it, because...
So it must have happened at the end,
because that's the part that I missed, okay.
Yeah, and it was so nonchalant,
and he just said there won't be there very long.
I was like, oh, wow, that's crazy.
But just look at the behaviors of the Chuck Schumers
and the Elizabeth Warrens and the Maxine...
The list goes on.
I'm a logical person.
I'm a reasonable person.
I really am.
I really am.
And the only logical conclusion that I can reach,
the only reason I can find for the Democrats' behavior
is either they're all engaged in mass criminal behavior,
mass criminal activity,
and so they're all colluding to try to get Trump out,
because he knows it and he's not part of it,
or they're literally mentally deranged, all of them.
I mean, you know, or both.
I think they're crazy.
They know what's going on.
They know it's all lies, and they're mentally deranged.
I mean, they're nuts.
Seriously, unbelievable.
In agreement with Manny, the products,
I just want to let you know,
my favorite is the Survival Shield X2,
and the brain force is insane.
It's like, I'm actually getting ready to go to my wife's
25-year reunion, and I started taking brain force,
and I literally started remembering people's last names
that I couldn't remember,
and then I stopped taking it,
and then I couldn't remember anymore,
so my daughter takes it to college before tests
and studying, and it's insane.
Well, and you know, there's things that we can say,
and things we can't say about our products,
but let's just say, you know,
go read the reviews for yourself.
Other people have made claims.
We're not going to make scientific claims here on air,
but people have had amazing positive effects
from our products, and that's incredible.
I tell you this, Silver Bullet literally took away
my daughter's pink eye.
She's complaining about it,
complaining about it for like a day and a half,
she wouldn't let me put it in her eye.
Put it in.
I'm telling you, not even 10 minutes later,
I went back to her room and said,
how's your eye?
And she said, my what?
Like, it was gone.
It was gone.
It's insane.
Amazing.
Thank you so much, Tim, for your support
and your call today.
All right, Alex in California, you're on air.
Go ahead.
Hi, Owen.
I just wanted to say those people who haven't tried
the product, it's very foolish.
I've been trying products that Alex brings to us
for years now.
My girlfriend, for example, lost her nail
and she tried the BioPCA and it grew back
after about two months of use.
But anyway, I live in Glendale.
It's a suburb of L.A.
And I have traveled to about 40 states.
It's crazy here.
These people are nuts.
Alex, hold on a second.
This is crazy.
You're calling in to talk about this.
I've only been to California three times in my life.
Or maybe it was four.
But every prior time I went to California,
I was always there on work.
So I wasn't as much just there on leisure
and kind of, you know, but I was in California
for leisure for the first time this weekend.
I went to California for music festivals.
I'm driving around San Bernardino,
driving around the outskirts of L.A., driving around.
I was stunned.
I was honestly stunned at just the total degradation
of California.
I mean, half the buildings are boarded up.
Half the business.
You go on to Google search and you search these businesses.
Half of them are shut down.
People are walking around in the total drags.
I mean, it's, dude, I was, and I was,
like I said, I went out to San Fran.
I went out to Oakland.
I've seen it before, but I was always in work mode
and not just like being a human mode.
I was stunned, Alex.
I can't believe this day to California.
It's honestly, and California is so beautiful.
The wildlife, the nature, the scenery, the weather,
it's so beautiful.
And the Democrats have just turned it into a hellhole.
Yeah, that's true.
When you live here, it's a little different.
It's 50-50.
You know the areas.
Right.
You can isolate yourself from the crap.
But yeah, it is.
It's horrible.
Our neighbors will walk by and scream obscenities.
They will, they hurt your car, scratch it, hit it,
follow you for hours on the highway.
We have had people arrested just because of my bumpers
because your name and my girlfriend, she was scared.
And for some reason, it's like the homeless is there.
The homeless people there are so entitled and deranged.
They think they run the state.
Like you're driving, they'll hit your car.
It'll be a green light and they'll be like, stop.
If you drive, they like try to bash your car.
Yeah.
Let me get to the point that I wanted to say,
I've been trying to get this across and I haven't heard much talk.
I follow all the radio shows and read a lot.
The reason this whole Mueller thing, Rosenstein,
yes, there is a possibility that they can hurt Trump
or our movement, but that's not their main goal with this hysteria.
Their main goal, and you touched on this a few minutes ago,
they're afraid of losing vote.
They are afraid that Democrats are going to leave the plantation,
the mental slavery that is the Democrat party.
That is why they're doing this, to keep them in a frenzy of hysteria
in a fear state or whatever, or perhaps for the lunatics
like Antifa to tell them, look, show them we are doing something.
Yes, no, no, no, Alex, you're right on. That's exactly it.
It's a psychological thing.
You're 100% right. Just like they do to black people,
just like they do to old people saying Republicans are going to kill you,
take your health care, Republicans want to see police shoot you.
It's to keep black people afraid so that they have to vote Democrat.
You're exactly right. Oh, Trump's a Russian agent.
Oh, Trump's this or that. You are so right.
It's a total fear tactic. It's a total fear tactic.
Thank you so much for the call, Alex.
Let's make it quick here. 60 seconds to call because we're about to go to break.
Let's go to Nick in Minnesota. Go ahead, Nick.
Hey, Owen, how you doing? Good.
Good. Say I wanted to call in today, talk about an article that was published
in The Hill roughly about a week ago titled Collusion Bombshell.
Basically, the article is just outlining a gentleman who you've probably seen
in the news in the last week. His name is James Baker.
He was a former general counsel at the FBI.
Now, he had testified to Congress last week that he met before the 2016 election
with a lawyer for the firm that represents the DNC and Clinton campaign.
Now, the lawyer he had met with is a gentleman by the name of Michael Sussman.
He is actually part of the firm that commissioned the Steele dossier
on behalf of the DNC and the Clinton campaign.
You know what? I'm so glad that you called because I was cleaning off my desk last week
and I came upon an entire layout of the Democrat fake dossier and then spying.
And I'm going to do that on the war room.
I'm going to host the first two segments of the war room today at 3 o'clock
at infowords.com. I'm going to bring that document on air because so much has been revealed
since I originally covered that. And Nick is right. The names have already been exposed.
All right. Thank you for the call, Nick. Let's go to Marco real quick, Marco.
I'm sorry to cut you short. 30 seconds, fire away.
Yo, what's happening? Oh, and the cocks layer. And I'm sorry, dude.
All I can say is this is that Trump has rolled some of these people, man.
I mean, Trump basically got on Air Force One with Rosenstein status butt down,
you know, gave him his parry and said, look here, you know, you deep-saved Zionist cocks.
I'm keeping you on because we're going to need you to testify what you know about Hillary and Obama
and send the Marines in to their homes to extract and arrest them for treason.
You either turn state's evidence for me or there's going to be an open cell,
a special open cell somewhere in Gitmo where you're going to spend 23 hours of your day
getting raped by some Muslim who will enjoy your soft beta male feature.
Yeah. Yeah. They call it a, they call it a member meat sandwich. Wow.
Well, I'll tell you what, Marco, if that day comes, I'll be right here toasting to you
and to America that we beat the deep state.
Let's fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive to get to the gym,
get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get super male vitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of super male vitality.
So I want you to experience super male vitality before it's too late.
Unleash the super male and you super male vitality from infowarstore.com.
Supporting us, praying for us and spreading the word. You are the info war.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to,
but the bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the renaissance and we are winning.
Owen Troyer.
What do you do when people think there's more than one gender?
Well, they're taking this next level, folks. They've already written all of their scientific journals
about, you know, 79 genders or whatever the heck it is.
But it's funny because it's obviously ridiculous, okay? It goes against science and biology.
It's stupid. It's insane. You have every right to be insane.
But, you know, you mostly leave the insanity out of our system.
And so, you know, you go to file for a driver's license or for insurance or, you know, you got to fly.
You select male or female because you either have a, excuse me, a penis or a vagina.
Okay? I mean, you know, it's biology, but not to the left.
There is no science or biology to the left.
And so now the fact that you can only select male or female on, you know, these forms or whatever,
this bigotry has got to end. And now in New York, Governor, excuse me, Mayor Bill de Blasio,
this is the mayor that had the gentleman caught with so much child porn, folks.
It would make your head spin. This is like the next John Podesta of the Democrat Party.
He was an up and comer. Got caught with just so much child porn. It was unbelievable.
And this was a guy right under Mayor Bill de Blasio.
Somehow he got reelected after having a pedophile on his team.
Regardless, Bill de Blasio said on Tuesday, they're going to add a new, they just signed a new bill,
adding a third gender to birth certificates, Gender X.
I guess that encompasses all the genders then, all 109 of them.
So now Gender X, so that'll be now on everything you fill out, Gender X.
Welcome to America, land of fruits and nuts and Gender Xs.
What is a Gender X?
Well, nobody knows. It's just to appease the mentally deranged.
But let's go to this clip. This is actually kind of an interesting one.
Transdiva says Quantum Physics helped her under, or him, or X, discover the queer identity.
My name is Amru Al-Khadi, or Glamrou, and I have an identity that you might categorize as intersectional.
Intersectional?
I'm a British Iraqi, gay, non-binary, and also identify as Muslim.
And reading about Quantum Physics has really helped me understand my queer identity.
Oh, yeah. Look at that. That's the Quantum Physics right there.
Oh, God!
Quantum Physics is a beautiful, strange, and glorious sector of physics
that looks at the subatomic particles that govern our world.
So, inside the neutrons, electrons, and the protons, looking at the quarks, leptons, bosons...
This is somehow trying to legitimize whatever this is.
Quantum Physics is obsessed with the universal formula that govern our reality.
It's so fixed on resolute answers.
It's called science.
Quantum Physics reveals that there is no fixed reality, and it's full of beautiful contradictions.
We can now observe that the same subatomic particle can be in many places at the same time.
So, if we fire an electron through a wall with two holes, for instance,
we should be able to see that it goes through one or the other.
This is from the BBC, by the way.
We've seen that the same particle is actually going through both holes at the same time.
Yeah, everything's vibrating, everything's a frequency, nothing's a solid state.
All at the same time.
What's so remarkable about Quantum Physics is the fact that what's happening on a subatomic level
contradicts what we're actually seeing.
This is from the BBC.
I don't know, this individual is probably perfectly fine.
Gentlemen, or whatever it is, Quantum Beam.
So what is the point of this?
It's just to like...
What queer theory is to heteronormativity?
Heteronormativity.
Heteronormative constructs of society, male, female, gender, race, categorizing everything in a kind of neat way.
All right, that's good, that's good.
So there you go, ladies and gentlemen.
It's all Quantum Physics now.
I must have missed it.
It's Quantum Physics.
According to Quantum Physics...
Well, heck, I'ma try seratops.
I'ma try seratops.
And a Tyrannosaurus Rex and a Muslim one at that.
Paul Joseph Watson is going to break it all down on the other side.
We're going to take a look at some of the stuff that we're going to be talking about today.
We're going to take a look at some of the stuff that we're going to be talking about today.
We're going to take a look at some of the stuff that we're going to be talking about today.
News, analysis, reports, it's the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
We're on this course now of the Alex Jones Show.
Huge rest of news coming up.
Obviously, the resignation of Nikki Haley.
A lot of Trump supporters disappointed about that.
A lot of people speculating who the new UN ambassador is going to be.
Why everyone's disappointed about it.
God only knows because she was basically a swamp creature.
A member of the establishment and neocon who supported some of the very foreign policy decisions that Trump ran against that Trump voters voted for Trump in order to cease in order to stop.
So we'll get into that a little bit.
Also talk about the hotel in Toronto that decided to accept refugees.
Oh, my word.
And it's obviously symptomatic of a wider phenomenon.
If you accept, I think it's 61% occupancy in this one Toronto hotel is taken up by refugees.
They didn't bother to tell the paying guests, by the way, which led to some very fruity, acrimonious reviews on TripAdvisor.
Responded by suspending the ability of people to post new reviews on that particular hotel.
But again, it's symptomatic of the wider phenomenon.
If you have these problems with inviting a few hundred refugees, they call them refugees, they're economic migrants, obviously, into a hotel.
What's going to happen when you invite hundreds of millions of them into a continent?
And isn't it interesting how I presume that many of the leftists who stayed in Toronto over the past few months at this very hotel left scathing reviews of that hotel on TripAdvisor.
How many of those same people want to have completely open borders?
There's quite the inconsistency there, isn't there?
So we'll get into that.
We'll also get into Hillary Clinton talking about civility once again.
And in fact, I tweeted out this earlier.
This is from a Breitbart article called Wrapsheet, which has been updated today.
It's updated every day.
583, that's the current number, acts of media-approved violence and harassment against Trump supporters.
Because we still have this narrative every single day from the mainstream media that Trump is causing division when, in reality, the vast majority of violent attacks,
the vast majority of doxing incidents, the vast majority of harassment is not being meted out by Trump supporters because of Trump's rhetoric,
it's being meted out by far-left agitators.
Now, there are up to 583 acts of harassment, violence against Trump supporters.
Just in the last week alone, I tweeted this out, just since October 1st, just look at this Wrapsheet.
October 1st, Senator Mitch McConnell, badgered at airport by anti-cavenor activists.
October 1st, same day, vandals hit Illinois GOP headquarters with rape graffiti.
October 2nd, leftist protestor kicks pro-life woman.
You've probably seen the video by now.
Thankfully, he ended up getting arrested, getting fired and being turned into an internet meme until Kingdom come.
Also, October 2nd, GOP Congressman Andy Harris assaulted by protestors.
October 2nd, two hospitalised after exposure to powdery substance at Ted Cruz's Houston campaign office.
October 3rd, rioting and threatening letter sent to Trump.
October 6th, Senator Collins flooded with abusive tweets threatening death and violence.
October 7th, Senator Cory Gardner claims wife received a beheading video over the cavernor, though.
October 8th, Rand Paul's wife says, I sleep with a loaded gun thanks to leftist threats, because they're very tolerant, open-minded people.
October 8th, Antifa takes over Portland, harasses old man for disobeying.
We're going to get more into that. Of course, that went completely viral yesterday.
I think it was still up on the Georgia report as of a couple of hours ago, our story about that.
And now the media is saying basically that this old man, who was literally chased by a baying mob down the street,
deserved it because he quote, plowed through protestors in his vehicle, even though as the footage clearly shows,
no such thing whatsoever happened, but the media is already lying about it and saying basically he deserved it.
That was another incident.
October 8th, leftist teacher tweets, so who's going to take one for the team and kill cavernor?
And we've got more examples of it in forewars.com, Rosemount educator on leave after tweeting, kill cavernor.
A Rosemount special education teacher, so special, has been placed on paid administrative leave after posting a tweet Saturday
that appeared to call for the killing of new US Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
She tweeted, quote,
So who's going to take one for the team and kill cavernor?
And these are the people who just get caught.
You could literally Google riot cavernor or kill cavernor or assassinate cavernor or search it on Twitter.
I mean, on Saturday, on Sunday, on Monday, hundreds and hundreds of tweets.
Now I've found another one. I found an entire account.
And if you go on my Twitter account, you'll see that chicks on the right tweeted this out.
It's probably about 10 tweets down if you want to scroll down on my Twitter account.
Chicks on the right tweeted this out in reference to this individual on Twitter,
who calls himself Thomas L McCurdy, close to be a retired real estate and financial services, mining and manufacturing manager.
Basically, every other tweet is him threatening violence, talking about how he used to be a sniper.
Here's what he said. Here's his second tweet, second most recent tweet.
Quo, I'm very hopeful for another Republican baseball practice.
That is obviously right related to the attempted massacre of Steve Scalise,
another Republican congressman, which happened just over a year ago.
And he basically talks about October 7. He tweeted, higher assassins, higher assassins.
You can scroll down further.
He says, quote, it's time for the big guns to come out past the ammo.
And it just gets weirder and weirder.
I mean, in one of these tweets, he's talking about how he used to be a listen to this.
This is this is on Twitter right now.
It's been on Twitter for over a week.
But Alex Jones got permanently banned for being mean to a CNN reporter.
Meanwhile, this guy and people have drawn attention to this for the past few days.
It's not as if this has just happened. His account still perfectly active.
He says, quote, on October 3.
I had orders to the United States Navy Seals.
I was destined to be a sniper assassin.
I chose to refuse those orders and became a civilian.
A choice I've regretted for 40 years.
But in mind, this is a guy who's calling for massacres of Republicans
and then bragging about how he used to be a sniper
or was destined to become a sniper and regrets that he didn't become one.
He says, quote, I was going to be paid to kill people.
There's more.
In one of these tweets, he openly calls for assassinating Kavanaugh.
I mean, I could go on forever with this.
Nothing whatsoever has happened to this account.
Thomas L. McCurdy.
Now, I'm not obviously the vast majority of these kind of tweets.
Like the one I just drew attention to, the Rose Mount teacher.
They're just idiots on Twitter who aren't aware of the fact
that you can't make death threats against people.
They're not going to do anything. They're not going to act on it.
This guy, this is one of those things where you think,
well, maybe the Secret Service should take serious look at this
because he's talking about wanting to be a sniper
and he's also encouraging new Republican baseball practice massacres.
And this kind of filters on Twitter and it has been for a week.
Oh, but it's Donald Trump causing the division BS.
There was another one which I tweeted out yesterday.
You remember the limo crash on, I think it was Sunday afternoon,
killed 20 people, absolutely tragic.
A wedding party in Albany, New York.
Somebody responded to a CBS news report about that horrific tragedy with this.
Her name's Marsha Roosh.
She put a full name behind it and picture behind it.
She was proud of this.
She said in response to the tragic accident that killed 20 people in a wedding limo.
Quote, please let it have been that senator and his daughter that was getting married.
Please, please, please be such perfect karma.
Obviously in reference to the senator whose vote was not required eventually
for the Kavanaugh confirmation, but who had to go to his daughter's wedding,
openly calling again or wishing that he'd been involved
along with his entire family in that fatal accident.
This is the new left and the difference that I've mentioned many times is
when the right has its fringe violent radicals, we call them out,
we distance ourselves from them.
The left's violent fringe radicals are now being embraced,
normalized into their generic body politic and it's absolutely chilling.
We'll be back. This is the Fourth Hour Live, infowars.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems
they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
It's an o-brainer.
A big, burky water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals,
BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Burky.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Burky or bigburkywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
I tried other brands but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Get a sunny bay heating pad.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck or back or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians
said that one of the best ways to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny bay heating pads are handmade with high quality,
can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer
can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care
before we introduce them to the public.
You can easily find sunny bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for sunny bay heating pads.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us,
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
M4s.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at M4s.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart
and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Sorrel's the global spring win.
This is M4s Darker Sour.
We do your support.
I'm counting on you.
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield.
Toxic, metal, and chemical defense support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the M4.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking
for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family,
and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused
as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be
thanks to your support and your prayers together.
We're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield
and M4sLive.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the Infowars.com studios,
you're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
And now, your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
Well, you remember the uncovered videotape
of the Google meeting after the election
where they basically had a meeting
with the president of the United States
and the president of the United States
with the Google meeting after the election
where they basically had a group therapy session
where we're all whining about the horrific events
that had just happened and basically promising
to abuse their own algorithm
to ensure that conservative content was buried
and that President Trump could never happen again, basically.
Well, from what I'm told on the grapevine,
Breitbart is about to drop a massive new censorship story
on Google. Of course, it was Breitbart and Alan Bakari
that got that exclusive leaked videotape out of Google last month.
I believe it was. It was an absolutely huge story.
They've got another bombshell about to drop
and they delayed it a little bit
because of the Nikki Haley information
and some other big stories that are coming out.
They don't want it to be overshadowed,
but it basically has to do with Google being caught
admitting that they're gaming their own algorithms,
their gaming their own YouTube censorship tools,
which, of course, James O'Keefe and Project Veritas
got some of the Google engineers, YouTube engineers to admit to.
I think it was last year in that big expose.
But basically, they've been caught deliberately targeting
certain channels for censorship on YouTube,
something that people had suspected all along.
There was an extremely popular YouTuber called LeafyIsHere
who used to do commentary, used to bash feminist social justice warriors.
His channel absolutely exploded.
I mean, a lot of his content was quite sophomoric, obviously.
It was aimed at, you know, late teenagers,
but YouTube did not want him to represent them as a brand
because his channel was absolutely exploding at the time.
So a lot of people suspect that they did deliberately bury
and censor his channel and prevent it
from coming up and recommended on YouTube,
which is how you get the views, basically.
So this Breitbart bombshell is about to drop.
Obviously, YouTube completely deleted the Alex Jones channel
back on August the 6th.
Now it appears that they could even have targeted Logan Paul,
who is absolutely world famous almost at this point,
probably for many of the wrong reasons,
but they don't want someone like Logan Paul to represent them as a brand.
They want to increasingly move towards a Netflix corporate establishment model,
taking the you out of YouTube, basically.
And there's talk that they directly mentioned Logan Paul
and they directly targeted Logan Paul for censorship
after, I presume it would have been after his, you know,
dead body in the Japanese suicide forest controversy.
But if they've got what they promised to have uncovered,
which is basically Google core admitting that they deliberately
censor people on their own YouTube platform,
then again, that is going to be a massive story
and it would completely disprove the notion
that they're an impartial neutral actor,
given how much power they've collected,
given the fact that Google is basically now a monopoly.
So that story is likely to drop on Breitbart
here in the next few hours.
So look out for that.
It's a big, big news story.
But before the break, we were talking about Hillary Clinton
and civility, Hillary Clinton, civility can start again
if Democrats win House and or Senate.
Basically in an interview with CNN,
Hillary Clinton said that civility will only begin again
after the Democrats get back into power.
So it's perfectly fine to have no civility.
Of course, the point that I made the in civility
was all being meted out by the left or at least 95% of it.
You've seen the Breitbart article,
which we featured before the break,
rap sheet 583 acts of media
approved violence and harassment against Trump supporters.
Literally this article must be about 30 pages long by now,
stretching back, I believe it's to the beginning
or just after the election,
actually just before the election in 2016,
Trump supporters harassed, beaten, abused, doxxed,
threatened, assaulted.
They've literally listed every single example,
and this article continues to be updated to the present day,
to the point where there have been about 10 or 12,
I believe major incidents just in the past week alone,
of leftists and Tifa attacking Trump supporters.
And of course, we had the Rosemount educator on leave
after tweeting kill Kavanaugh.
Another story up at infowars.com.
Boohoo little baby leftist editor mocks shooting victims
called for civility.
So of course, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise
called for civility in politics.
This was the guy who was nearly killed
by a far left Bernie Sanders supporter
at a Republican baseball practice last year.
He called for more civility.
And the response from Raw Story's senior editor,
Raw Story being another hysterical far left publication,
was to mock his call for civility saying boohoo little baby.
So literally mocking the victim of an attempted
political massacre while he calls for more civility in politics.
This is the new left.
We had the other example I talked about.
CBS News reporting on the tragic deaths of 20 people
in that wedding party limo that crashed on Sunday.
Marsha Roosh responding to it by saying,
please let it have been that senator
and his daughter referring to the senator,
the Republican senator, who skipped the Kavanaugh vote,
although his vote was later cancelled out,
to go to his daughter's wedding,
openly calling for him to die.
I talked about Thomas L. McCurdy,
who as Twitter account basically every other tweet
is calling for a new Republican baseball practice massacre
and him weirdly obsessing about being a sniper.
Seriously, the FBI secret service, whoever,
needs to look into this guy.
His account has been up for God knows how long.
Since October 1st, there have been several basically
outright death threats or at least encouraging
the violent assassination of Republicans.
Twitter's done absolutely nothing about it,
but Alex Jones was banned for being mean to a CNN reporter.
So there's your civility, that's what's happening
in terms of the rhetoric, the amping up of this hysteria.
Meanwhile, they always blame Trump saying,
he's the one causing division when they're the ones
amping up the hysteria, contriving this moral panic
that there are Nazis running around everywhere
and that they're somehow saving western civilization
from the Fourth Reich.
It's absolutely hysterical, it's a contrived moral panic
and the rhetoric is only getting more and more unhinged.
It's absolutely incredible.
But now we're going to talk about this,
which is happening in Toronto right now.
Headline, Toronto Migrants Housing and Hotels
Slaughtered Goats in Public Bathrooms.
That is the extraordinary claim being made
by one of the guests who stayed there.
Now this is in East Toronto, it's the Radisson in East Toronto
and this has been going on for a few months now
and you can tell that by going to the official
TripAdvisor page for this hotel.
I think I got back to about February, March
at the beginning of the year, reading all these reviews
about this hotel after it accepted hundreds of
quote, refugees to stay there for free.
Of course, it's being paid for by the government.
The government in Toronto has already forked out
$64.5 million on housing migrants in Toronto
over the last 11 months alone.
Absolutely incredible.
They've got 18 to 20 mostly Nigerian refugees.
I don't believe Nigerians at war,
but they just call them refugees anyway.
Arriving in Toronto every single day,
the migrant shelters are full, they've got nowhere to house them.
They need to pay for entire hotels and after the break
we're going to get into the consequences of what happens
when you house refugees in hotels alongside tourists
and business people.
This is the Alex Jones Show Live breaking news
at infowars.com.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol
levels may not be fully detected by you,
but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops,
blood circulation and irregular heartbeat
are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized.
My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look
and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent
should be using this product as a preventative
or cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two months supply today
by calling 866-295-5305
that's 866-295-5305
or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305
or hbextract.com
Stress is a natural part of life
where family, friends and everyday accidents
are a lot of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down.
Happys is a powerful mood and stress support formula
that has your back against life's daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years,
Happys can help you take back the day.
With our powerhouse formula,
Happys can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body
in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined
to help support the mind and body,
Happys helps support during stress,
promotes overall well-being
and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress
and pressure today with Happys
from InfowarsStore.com
It's really hard to have the energy
at the end of the day to still get to the gym
or to go for a run or go to the park
or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day
but thanks to SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com,
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy
at the end of a long day to fight back
against the chemicals and the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance,
energy and drive to get to the gym,
get to the park and get exercise
that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality
before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you
with SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways,
including supporting heart health, joint health
and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism,
helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas
may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula
that contains unmodified high-quality krill oil concentrate
paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you
with Ultimate Krill Oil,
available at InfowarsStore.com.
We're live in the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show.
Before I get back into this news,
I want to tell you about the massive 50% off Super Sale,
where combining Christmas, Black Friday and Cyber Monday,
all into one.
50% off all InfowarsLife products,
free shipping, store-wide, plus other incredible specials.
We're talking about Brainforce Plus, just 1998.
That is half price right now.
InfowarsStore.com.
We're talking about bodies at 50% off.
Again, look at those reviews.
Under 19 reviews, and it's 4.9 out of 5,
that is now slashed, again, to half price at just $29.95.
We have the Super Blue Fluoride Free Toothpaste,
available now at just $7.40 as part of this great special
at InfowarsStore.com, along with a ton of other products.
This is the 50% off Super Sale,
Christmas, Black Friday, Cyber Monday,
all rolled into one.
Free store-wide shipping, other incredible specials.
Please support as they're trying to basically
assassinate us financially, as you've seen
over the past few weeks and months.
This is how we survive and thrive
by you getting the products at InfowarsStore.com
as part of this Super Sale special.
So please go to InfowarsStore.com today
and take advantage of these massive discounts.
Now, before the break, I was talking about Toronto,
because this is symptomatic of what's happening,
not just in Canada, but in Europe as a whole.
Headline, Toronto migrants housed in hotels
slaughtered goats in public bathrooms.
That is the claim being made by one American visitor
who stayed at a hotel in Toronto.
Now, bear in mind, this isn't the whole story.
This gets even worse.
So basically, this can't, this is emerging out
of Toronto's sun article.
This controversy's been rolling for a while.
Toronto's migrant shelters are basically full.
They've got nowhere to put these people.
Yeah, 18 to 20, mostly Nigerian refugees,
even though Nigeria is not at war,
arriving in the city every day.
So now the government, and this happened in Berlin as well,
it's happened in several different,
in German cities as well as French cities,
where the government is having to pay
to rent out hotels at cheap rates.
So the hotel loses out financially as well.
They spent $64.5 million on these hotels for these migrants,
most of them illegal, by the way,
in the last 11 months alone.
A total of 1,700 illegal migrants
slash refugees slash asylum seekers
are being housed in Toronto hotels,
including 577 housed at the Radisson Toronto East Hotel,
which has 146 rooms devoted to these migrants.
So they've got 577 migrants living in 146 rooms
in this hotel in East Toronto.
And it's been turned into a complete hellhole.
Well, what do you know?
And you can see this yourself
by going on the TripAdvisor page for the hotel,
which has been inundated in the past few weeks
with scathing reviews of the hotel,
calling it, quote,
a zoo filthy, noisy, and dangerous
with the lobby full of loitering refugees and hauls
containing graffiti and garbage.
Now, the hotel, in all its infinite wisdom,
decided not to tell the paying customers
that they were staying in a hotel,
61% of which is occupied by illegal immigrants.
You can go and read the reviews of people.
Some of whom thought this hotel was pretty decent
because I think before they turned it into a migrant hotel,
you know, it was a pretty decent Radisson.
It was a pretty decent hotel.
So these poor tourists and business travelers
turned up to this hotel expecting a nice hotel
and it was absolutely horrific.
Some of the reviews, I mean,
you've just got to read them for yourself.
On Tuesday, one visitor from Virginia
calling the three-star hotel a disgrace
claimed that animal services needed to be called
on the second night he was there because, quote,
some goats were being slaughtered in the public bathrooms.
Yes, really.
The visitor said gunfire was also heard outside the hotel
that same night.
But, you know, Justin Trudeau says
diversity is our strength,
so I guess that's the strength, right?
Now, you can see these trip advisor posts in the article
I tweet out some of them.
Here's one.
Quote, my daughter kept getting harassed
by full-grown men slash refugees.
Do not bring your kids or wife.
Here's another one.
The staff should have told us it was a refugee camp.
Here's another one.
I've stayed at this hotel on and off for over 16 years.
It used to be a great hotel.
All that has changed since it became a refugee holding centre.
Like, you pay a week.
You pay good money to stay in this hotel.
You're visiting Toronto.
Why would you want to do that?
I don't know.
But you're visiting Toronto,
basically the Canadian San Francisco.
And you find you're basically staying in a migrant camp
and the hotel didn't inform any of the paying guests
because, of course, if they did,
none of them would have turned up,
even though many of them will probably, you know,
get on Twitter and virtue signal about how open borders
promoting they are, about how much they love refugees.
Here's another visitor who stayed there.
He said, quote, my female colleagues were followed
to their room by a group of men saying vulgar and sexual things.
If you want to visit a third world country
without leaving Toronto, stay here.
And I read about 25 of these reviews last night
on TripAdvisor.
And it was basically, oh, we can't even use the elevator
because the refugees threaten us.
You know, they're rude.
They rush in before us.
There are kids running around the hallway the entire time,
pressing the button on the elevators repeatedly.
So the elevators are broken down.
There's garbage everywhere.
There's feces.
There's women and young girls getting sexually harassed
everywhere.
There's gunfire.
And even according to this one visitor,
the sacrifice of goats in public bathrooms.
Now think of that.
This is what's happening in one hotel in Toronto.
Isn't this symptomatic of what happens?
We've literally got presidents and prime ministers
like Macron openly saying they want Europe to become
your radio, that they want at least tens of millions
more predominantly African migrants to move into Europe.
You know what happens when millions of Africans come to Europe?
Europe becomes Africa.
And if these hotels are any example, then we should pay heed.
Now, what do you think TripAdvisor did?
Continuing with the article.
Other reviews are complete with people complaining about rude
and loud refugees loitering outside the building
and making them feel unsafe with bitter objections
about why the hotel is still being advertised
for tourists and business travelers.
So what do you think TripAdvisor did after this hotel
was getting bombarded with negative reviews
because they lied to their customers and didn't tell them
they were staying in a hotel full of migrants?
Now, what should have happened was that TripAdvisor
withdrew the hotel page from their website altogether
because the hotel was lying to their customers.
But what did they do instead?
As a sacrifice to the politically correct gods,
they suspended new reviews of the hotel.
So anyone staying there, you know, bitterly complaining
about the fact that they were promised a nice hotel
and turned up and were basically staying in a migrant camp,
those people aren't allowed to post reviews for the hotel anymore
because it would tip off other people as to what's happened.
TripAdvisor said, quote,
due to a recent event that has attracted media attention
and has caused an influx of review submissions
that do not describe a firsthand experience,
even though they do, that in itself is a lie too, TripAdvisor.
We have temporarily suspended publishing new reviews
for this listing.
So once again, what do they lurch straight towards?
Censorship, people telling the truth about the migrant crisis
on a microcosm, you know, this is what's happening
on a wider stage across the continent,
but they're telling the truth about it from firsthand experience,
from staying in this hotel there themselves.
What does TripAdvisor do?
What does a massive online corporation do remind you of anyone?
They censor the ability of anyone who stayed at that hotel
to post reviews, accurate firsthand experience reviews
of what's going on there.
And again, this is happening in numerous other cities.
This is a microcosm of the refugee crisis.
What happens when you invite millions and millions of people in?
Well, the same thing is what's happening in this East Toronto hotel
when they invited hundreds in,
and it basically turned into a threatening dump
where women were being harassed and people were being abused.
We'll be back in the next segment of the Alexandria Life
infowars.com.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are
for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party,
left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department,
and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground,
and I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success,
but if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target,
we financially support us.
If you spread the word about our articles and videos,
infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scum bags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at infowars.com right now,
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart
and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Soros and Global Spain win.
This is InfoWars Darker Sour. We're your support.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves,
it's just as important to make sure your kids
get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Build from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil,
ultra-purified krill oil,
and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins
to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's
optimal heart, joint, cognitive, and brain health
while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential
for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams
of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate
nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow,
look no further.
Try Honor Roll.
From InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
This is a great formula that supports your heart,
brain, healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base,
the Real Red Pill,
will quickly become one of our
fellow Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra-proprietary energy blend inside,
including green DX track and Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up
all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has,
it's also got the boost in it.
This is Real Red Pill Plus at InfowarsStore.com.
With these natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms,
there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body, supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast
that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients
that stood the test of time
as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved
MycoZX Plus today at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from the Infowars.com studios,
you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now your host, Paul Joseph Watson.
This is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show
because big news today,
UN Ambassador Nikki Haley has resigned.
A lot of Boomer Trump supporters
wringing their hands at that news saying,
oh my God, we miss her already.
Well, I don't miss her
because she was another creature of the deep state.
And this is all outlined in an Infowars.com headline.
Neil called Nikki Haley resigns.
Good riddance.
But basically I go through the brief short history
of Nikki Haley in the Trump administration
and basically what she stood for,
which was the opposite of what Trump voters
supported Trump for in the first place.
And you can point to many different aspects.
Again, she repeatedly favored jihadists in Syria
by supporting the destabilization
of Bashar al-Assad's secular government.
Every time there was a chemical weapons attack,
despite the fact that ISIS alone
had carried out 50 separate chemical weapons attacks in Syria,
she said we need to immediately blame Bashar al-Assad
with basically no investigation whatsoever.
She even took to at one point predicting chemical weapons attacks
and saying that they would be blamed on Bashar al-Assad
with no investigation whatsoever.
Back in June, she insisted that any chemical weapons attack
in Idlib would be immediately blamed on Assad,
despite a large number of terrorist groups in the area
and a track record of ISIS carrying out
previous chemical weapons attacks.
So again, she wanted us to attack the very people in Syria
who were fighting and defeating ISIS,
the Syrian Arab army.
A lunatic policy that was endorsed by Hillary Clinton
that was endorsed by Barack Obama
that was not endorsed by President Donald Trump,
which is why a lot of people voted for him,
because they didn't want America
as this domineering interventionist force.
They didn't want the US new wars being launched in our name
and thousands of US troops coming back in body bags.
They didn't want America to become Al Qaeda's air force.
Nikki Haley did.
It was a terrible policy,
the fact that she was still advocating it,
after Trump won, was absolutely asinine.
So that's one good reason why she's gone.
She also repeatedly bolstered the fraudulent narrative,
which again was invented by the Hillary Clinton campaign
and the FBI, basically, from the Steele dossier,
which was funded by the Clinton campaign
and became the basis for the Mueller investigation,
despite the fact that it was totally made up and partisan.
It was also the basis for the wire attack
of the Trump campaign, despite the fact that it was, again,
all a brainchild of the Hillary Clinton campaign.
Nikki Haley bolstered and believed that narrative.
She pushed it at every available opportunity
that Russia meddled in the 2016 US presidential election.
Last year, she said, quote,
when a country can come into fear
in another country's elections, that is warfare.
She was literally trying to make out
that this completely phony made up narrative
that Russia meddled in the US election,
despite the fact that it was basically a handful of box
that could have been outspent by anyone.
And they weren't even pushing Trump for the whole time anyway.
You had so-called Russian box on Facebook,
pushing Black Lives Matter rhetoric.
And they basically had no effect whatsoever.
RT, the big bad RT network,
which lies about its audience, had no effect.
It was a complete moral panic, fake narrative.
And at every step of the way,
Nikki Haley was there to bolster it.
Then this, earlier this summer,
we reported on this when it happened back in July.
She told young conservatives
that they needed to stop, quote,
owning the Libs online,
because it doesn't persuade anyone,
even though it does, and that's partly why Trump won.
And instead, she insisted that they should act
like establishment conservatives
sell out never Trump losers, like George Will.
That was literally her example
to try and inspire young conservatives
to become active and powerful and influential.
No.
Trump won because of precisely the opposite of that,
because people were getting out there in the culture war
and were owning the Libs, if you want to call it that.
So again, Nikki Haley was there,
so again, Nikki Haley was the biggest swamp creature left
in the Trump administration.
She was awful on foreign policy.
She had the foreign policy of Hillary Clinton
and George W. Bush.
She was a neocon.
This is what Glenn Greenwald tweeted.
Before John Bolton's hiring,
Nikki Haley was probably the most pro-war,
pro-imperialist, high-ranking Trump official,
and therefore the most beloved Trump official
by the war-loving US media.
But again, as you will recall,
the only time they ever supported Trump vehemently
and talked about cruise missiles
like they were, you know, sex aids or whatever,
glowing rhetoric was when he attacked Syria,
was when he bombed Syria, which was completely pointless.
And again, she was the figurehead for that bombing campaign.
Glenn Greenwald continued,
she held every conventional foreign policy view
that has generated so much destruction.
Now, Trump said that basically she wanted to take a break,
whether that's the real reason for her resignation
remains to be seen.
Jack Passovic tweeted
that she's probably going to become
the subject of an ethics investigation
about private jet flights.
But again, from back to front,
this is a woman who does not represent America first,
does not represent Trump's true agenda.
There was even speculation back a few months ago,
in fact, last month,
that Nikki Haley was the one behind that infamous
iron part of the resistance.
New York Times op-ed Pete to remember that,
where it was somebody inside the administration saying,
oh, my God, it's unlike any other presidency.
I'm a resistance member on the inside trying to fight it.
Now, a lot of people suggested that that was Nikki Haley.
In fact, Michael Caputo, a New York Times op-ed writer,
said that it was a she,
and basically intimated that it could have been Nikki Haley.
So she could have been the resistance member on the inside,
sabotaging Trump.
That wasn't confirmed,
but again, strong speculation that it could have been her.
So no, I'm not wringing my hands in despair
over the resignation of Nikki Haley.
Let's hope she gets replaced by somebody
who actually backed an America first agenda,
who actually wants to kill ISIS in Syria
instead of arming Jihadists and killing the people
who are fighting ISIS in Syria.
How about that for a change?
So basically, it's bye-bye, Nikki.
You won't be missed.
I don't understand the hand-ringing from some of the Trump supporters,
especially on Twitter,
especially from the usual boomer crowd
about the departure of Nikki Haley.
I certainly won't be shedding any tears over it.
Moving on to European news,
again with the migrant crisis.
Conservative journalist, young children,
threatened with rape and death.
Swedish media ignore it.
This was Joachim Lamott,
who has been on front lines of exposing
the consequences of the migrant crisis in Syria,
in Sweden, sorry,
Freudian slip.
In one weekend,
the Conservative journalist received over 40 calls
threatening him, harassing him,
threatening to kill his entire family.
You would think that that would make the news
but not in politically correct Sweden.
He basically had to go dark
because of this avalanche of threats against his family.
Meanwhile in Austria,
Austria to ban knives for asylum seekers
amidst migrant stabbing surge.
Migrants getting quite a stabby in Austria,
which is why they're set to ban refugees and asylum seekers
from owning knives.
As figures show, the number of attacks using stabbing
and slashing weapons in the country
has almost doubled over the past five years.
So they're going to try and prohibit non-EU migrants
from owning bladed weapons.
But it says here,
with the exception of hunting and kitchen knives,
so it really doesn't make much sense.
That's not going to have much teeth, is it?
But the Interior Minister, Herbert Kickel, stated,
this is why the ban on weapons for asylum seekers,
although it was entitled to asylum,
cannot only include firearms,
but all forms of weapons.
So they're literally having to ban them
from owning bladed weapons
because the stabbings are just so out of control.
Meanwhile in Germany,
asylum seeker brutally raped child
who was teaching him German.
A 27-year-old asylum seeker in Buckeberg in Germany
amidst the forcing a 13-year-old to guilt have sex with him.
The young girl, the migrant met a local refugee release centre.
Migrants said he wanted to learn the German language,
but when he had the chance, his real intentions came to light.
He attacked him right to the 13-year-old girl
in the room of her friend.
Absolutely despicable.
And again, go back to that hotel in Toronto.
That's literally the culture that we're inviting in right now.
Meanwhile, John Oliver,
whose videos had debunked basically
faster than the speed of light at this point,
says it's a baseless conspiracy theory
that saw us paid Kavanaugh protesters.
Even though they're literally on video being paid,
even though you can go on the saw us front group websites,
the centre for popular democracy and see
that one of those protesters,
the one who confront Jeff Flake and Maria Arquila,
is paid by this George Starros funded group.
So now it's not a conspiracy theory, John Oliver.
It's not been debunked. You've been debunked.
That's going to wrap it up for the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show,
but you should stay tuned next.
Coming up is War Room, breaking news at infowars.com.
Don't go away.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now,
but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago,
so I get the price down and I said,
if you don't lower it, I'm done. I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week,
and so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run,
which was Bible Shield X2,
and we've got a good supply of it,
but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it,
infowars.com, if you have experienced it,
I suggest you stock up on it.
It's available right now for limited time,
infowars.com right now.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water
is a serious health issue.
InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters,
but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet,
shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something
to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System
is an advanced four-stage compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home,
removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain,
and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction,
you'll only need this one filter for clean
and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com,
and whether it's your first water filtration purchase
or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home
with the Pro Pure Whole House filtration system today.
