When I grow up, I always be your rock star.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the resistance.
We're listening to Alex Jones.
A virtual army of unidentified assassins working under the rubric of the leftist,
alt-left, anti-fuss-slash-Islamic system have told us in October and November for six months
they're going to strike, they're going to kill conservatives, they're going to kill police officers,
they're going to kill Trump supporters, they are going to murder members of Congress,
they're going to attack churches, they are going to start a revolution.
And they're going to have the mainstream media play along with it and act like it's the fault of conservatives
by saying we don't know who's attacking, we don't know where it's coming from,
and then blaming us when we're the targets.
A true Hegelian dialectic.
Talk about Machiavellian.
Now, on Monday morning I got a call from the hostage rescue team source
and I later got another text confirming it saying I could go live with the information
that there was ISIS and of course also anti-faparaphanelia inside the Las Vegas reported shooters
two room suite connecting suite.
The next day the sheriff came out and said we're looking at radicalization,
meaning they found material.
When they said we're looking at radicalization, it's because of evidence that he said there's no way
he acted alone, we know he had help.
And now we learn that explosive possessed by Stephen Paddock may have been used
in the New York City bombing we recently saw.
And now they're slowly letting everybody know in the Washington Post
and the Las Vegas Review Journal and everywhere else that okay, looks like Islamic connection.
They can't cover it up.
And then of course the big story that's up on newswars.com.
I say that because Drudge is linked to us and we're in fours is slow,
not from a hack attack but just unprecedented traffic.
Former Trump campaign official says Las Vegas shooter made ISIS tape
and he has this directly from inside the White House
and this same individual has given accurate information on many cases from the White House.
And if you read the article on newswars.com, it ties into everything we've already broken down
and has a whole link chronologically to how we broke the receipts,
how we broke there was a woman inside there, all that are confirmed,
how we broke the day, we're looking into radicalization because they found evidence,
how they were looking at the fact they believe he didn't act alone.
When the media was telling you day one, he acted alone, no connection to anybody.
But look at the target, the motive is the target, look at his background.
And boy, I tell you, this guy just fits the bill of absolutely drugged out of his mind,
mind controlled, the perfect patsy.
His girlfriend said he laid in bed for hours every day just screaming uncontrollably.
A psychotic, an absolutely lunatic asylum individual, the perfect bonkers cut out,
millions a year gambled, but nobody ever wins like that, long term you always lose,
the house always wins, money laundering written all over it,
now his brother under investigation for narcotics trafficking.
This whole thing stinks to high heaven.
And notice corporate media said though, oh, Jones has wild theories again,
only we're allowed to have theories because no one knows exactly what happened.
Now we went out and did an original investigative journalism, interviewed all the other investigative journalists
that were really on the track, who had sources inside the hotel and reached out to our other sources
and brought you the clearest picture of what we believe may have been going on.
And now it gets clearer and clearer and comes into focus and it's exactly what we said.
Now they're spinning over time.
They got Google and Facebook admittedly censoring anybody that questions the official story.
The problem is the official story is already imploded.
So what are they going to do?
They're going to put out even wilder conspiracy theories and attributed them to us
and attempt to censor us, but it's already too late.
Infowars credibility has now reached total stratospheric levels.
Freedom to make bad decisions is inherent in the freedom to make good ones.
If we are only free to make good decisions, then we are not really free.
Liberty is lost through complacency and a subservient mindset when we accept or even welcome automobile checkpoints,
random searches, mandatory identification cards, and paramilitary police in our streets.
We have lost a vital part of our American heritage.
America was born of protests, revolution, and mistrust of government.
Subservient societies neither maintain nor deserve freedom for long.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
Brandon Tatum, the amazing police officer, the oratory genius of common sense,
the blast of the NFL, and last time I checked had like 70 million views on one video alone.
He is here in studio coming up to co-host with me in the second and somewhat into the third hour.
It'll also be on with Owen Schreuer on the war room today, coming up at 3 o'clock central.
Robert Kiyosaki is going to be joining us.
Colonel Tony Schaefer, high level CIA connections, highest level, telling you three days ago this appears to be an attack on Trump supporters by a jihadi connected individual.
He has to say it looks like that because he's not supposed to give you the actual intel because there's a shutdown of this information.
And I'm going to explain to you later here in just a few minutes how they got the president maneuvered into not letting it be known this was ISIS.
So that they could then burn his administration.
Because imagine ISIS attacks and attacks a bunch of Trump supporters.
Trump's approval rating goes up.
The left don't care. They're just so bloodthirsty they want to kill.
Allied with ISIS and al-Qaeda.
Trump gets told, sir, don't let them know it'll panic everybody.
And also it's, you know, it's code to trigger the other cells, sir.
And Trump's all into not letting you know what he's going to do militarily and keeping stuff secret.
He goes, okay, we won't tell people.
But you can't stop the sheriff's departments.
You can't stop the HRT.
You can't stop everybody that knows the truth from getting the information out.
I mean, the guy was a jihadi. He converted to Islam six months ago, shot a video.
The White House has it.
And our sources have seen the video and they've talked to the folks that have the video.
And it's him, beggard and Dallas.
Stephen Paddock, the reported shooter, pledging allegiance to ISIS.
What a lunatic.
Just like reality winner inside the FBI NSA was doing.
I mean, that's what this country's created.
It's what Stephen Colbert and CNN and all these new world order Harry Weinstein type folks have created is a bunch of America haters.
So vicious.
They think, well, ISIS hates America.
ISIS hates cops.
You know, let's, you go to a Black Lives Matter event.
They're got ISIS flags.
I mean, I've seen it with my own eyeballs.
My crew shot video of it.
You can't make this up.
And James Browner will be joining us.
He's the former Trump administration official who's leaked a lot of info that's proven to be totally accurate.
And he will be joining us.
He is the source of the information that's top linked on news wars.com.
Former Trump campaign official says Las Vegas shooter made ISIS tape.
And he's been told that by the Trump administration.
And Paul's headline is strong, but it just should be credible.
Former Trump administration official says White House sitting on top Vegas shooter ISIS tape.
I mean, that that's what's going on here.
And it's all there.
What he was told exactly what I was told why Trump was sitting on this and why I didn't give that information out Tuesday when other high level sources said, no, it is ISIS.
And they were planning a bunch of other attacks and that's why the cops down the street at some of the other hotels that I've been asked not to say the name of, but we have video.
We were airing some of it last night did shoot other gunman.
So they ended up stopping gunman and at least two other places, but not in the man delay.
That's why you hear in the first minute and a half at least two different rifles sounds a mile apart first far off.
And then 30 seconds later, I'm going to play that audio and video coming up again.
But this is just incredible.
So that's that's all coming up.
But oh, here it is in the Guardian.
Oh, we told you this on Monday.
And now the Guardian has to admit it Las Vegas Sheriff government played plan to survive and may have had help.
And now ISIS continue to take responsibility.
That's associated press today.
Think about all of this.
This is incredible.
Look at the target.
Look at who got hit.
Look at Trump's in the military smashing Isis that had been allied with the Democrats, the Muslim Brotherhood and the globalist.
They're mad.
They want to strike out.
They bragged they struck out.
They killed 59 people injured over 500.
So that's all coming up today with these expert guests in studio and more.
Meanwhile, the left is turning up the heat.
The main line mainstream media analysts are saying if you love dogs, you're racist.
This is actually being taught in universities.
This is to create the total frothing fear and racial division in the country.
And Newsweek has come out and blamed white Christians for the attack.
So they call us conspiracy theorist for having real sources, real info that continues to be proven right.
And meanwhile, Newsweek is point blank, blaming Christians for what happened with no proof.
Absolutely incredible when it's admitted this guy was not a Christian.
In fact, evidence is mounting that he was the leftist atheist that then flipped out and converted to Islam as we continue to see in the mass Stockholm syndrome.
All these feminists in Sweden and Germany and the US converting to Islam wearing hijabs saying this is feminism.
No, they just want to be rebellious idiots against the West.
Anybody that hates America, anybody that hates freedom, they're into it.
They love it.
So it's all coming up the bombshell next chapter.
Remember they covered up San Bernardino for three plus days.
First they said may have been radicalized then well we think they were radicalized.
Well, there was connections to other events while they traveled overseas.
And then five days later, okay, they were they were ISIS.
Same thing.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off.
And I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already you're stocking up.
They know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic natural healthy known Neutropics.
Neutropic means for the brain.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy.
If you want that, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
So for a limited time, ladies and gentlemen, Brainforce Plus is now 50% off or $19.96.
That comes to 50.03.
A little bit over 50% off the regular price.
Similar Neutropics that aren't even as pure or strong cost $50 to $70.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com or simply call toll free.
Triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
And when you purchase Brainforce Plus or any of the other great products like secret 12, caveman, oxy powder, super metal vitality or fluoride free super blue colloidal silver and iodine empowered toothpaste.
You get to support the information war and get really high quality products.
When you sign up for auto ship, you always get 10% off and there's free shipping at InfowarsStore.com and InfowarsLife.com.
There's free shipping on all orders of $50 or more.
Again, that's InfowarsStore.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Folks at the globalist hate it when you do this. We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless. We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win. We're all slaves. So don't thank me for what I'm doing.
I want to thank you. We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Lobby t-shirts and you get the great books and videos and when you get the great water filtration, you help yourself, you help your family.
When you get the great air filtration systems, all of them on sale right now at InfowarsLife.com, you're fighting the tip of the spear.
But these specials have got to end.
I mean, it may just be four or five days left that I'm able to offer brain force at this price because it's selling out so incredibly quickly at 50% off.
But again, thank you all for your support because this helps fund an operation as we expand in the face of the globalist.
Again, visit InfowarsStore.com today and commit to helping the Infowar.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfowarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products.
Click on AutoShip and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win.
And with the new AutoShip feature at InfowarsLife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip. Win, win, win at InfowarsLife.com.
Free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
Prostagard formula does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium, and copper.
Prostagard is something that the men on the Infowars crew take every day.
And from our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostagard on your side today, exclusively at InfowarsLife.com.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor? That's right.
It's a new technology that's easy to use, and let me tell you something. It is perfect for freeze-drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire meals.
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Silatol, nano-silver, and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue, fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfowarsStore.com. That's InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live. I am your host Alex Jones and you have not seen anything yet. Believe me.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are powerful multinational forces working through Orthodox Wahhabist Islam to launch terror attacks inside the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, the West in general,
to drive us into political submission. And the left also uses the terror attacks to take the general public's freedoms.
So now we see a bunch of Trump supporters gunned down in cold blood in Sin City, hundreds wounded, 59 dead, and the answer is collectively that all of us must give up our rights
and that we as gun owners are guilty and that the NRA isn't just terrorist, meaning gun owners, but that the NRA should be banned.
That's a talking point on MSNBC, CNN, that's a talking point from Oberman at GQ. They want it banned.
And simultaneously they want the Department of Homeland Security to set up a Ministry of Truth. NBC News has been calling for it.
ABC News to stop Alex Jones to not let me be on air because they want to preemptively say, I'm a fraud.
And then they misrepresent what I've said because they're the frauds. Alex Jones says there wasn't any shooter and nobody got shot.
And Alex Jones says there was more than one shooter. And Alex Jones says ISIS took responsibility and that's not true.
All of that was in a Newsweek story, waging war on common sense. Like I'd say no one got shot, but then there were multiple shooters.
I didn't say that nobody got shot and I was quoting ISIS saying they took responsibility. But that's what they do. They lie.
Notice they'll say Alex Jones said this and won't even show a quote around it or won't even show a video because they are a pack of criminal liars
and they know you know they're liars. They just hope that they tell bigger lies. Somehow you'll buy into it.
This article out of QZ.com two days ago basically set the parameters of it. Newsweek and others ran similar stories saying there's no way to report many of the fastest spreading Las Vegas conspiracy theories on Facebook.
And they say, but Jones says ISIS took responsibility and Jones says, but the Sheriff's Department says he didn't act alone.
I was saying all this, you notice before it was public because I have sources, but they just act like I just make that up.
Remember at first they go, Trump's not calling you. They go, well, we called the president. He wouldn't deny it.
It's like we're not making any of this up with the huge whistleblowers.
The media said it was fake when I said Matt Drudge was in studio. Sorry you can't get that interview.
So they're the liars. I'm not covering this talk about me. I'm covering it because they're here in the news saying in these articles flag Alex Jones's videos,
ban his videos on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter and a bunch of them have been banned.
And they go, oh good, it was banned where Alex said no one was shot. The video that was banned is where I said people were shot.
See, they don't want you to hear what I really said.
Then after they start reporting this two days ago, here's a new article, Market Watch, YouTube cracks down on conspiracies fake news.
Then they say, yes, one example is NFL anthem protest. They just banned that too. Oh, thank goodness. They're stopping the fake news.
No, they're covering up the real news and other people's free speech that may not be completely accurate.
A whole spectrum to set the precedent that if it's not corporate media, it's shut down. That's all.
They don't seem to know the Streisand effect that when they try to suppress speech, it makes everybody want to go see what it is.
Here's another one. Las Vegas survivors furious as YouTube promotes clips calling shooting a hoax. I was furious too.
But the point is they still have that free speech. It shouldn't be taken down. So they use that rubric. They use that excuse like, oh, let's just ban Nazi speech.
And then next, your speech is banned. So that's out of the Guardian.
YouTube institutes new censorship policy to stop Las Vegas conspiracy theories. Wall Street Journal.
Google apologizes. So what they're really doing is saying, oh, we apologize. Like, please don't throw me in the briar patch when this is what they want.
This is the censorship they promised to engage in. Meanwhile, I'm not calling for censoring the fake corporate hateful media.
But here's Newsweek saying Christian whites are to blame. White males are the problem. They're evil.
Will they ever say Muslims are the problem after an Islamic attack and it's even proven? No.
But when it's not proven it's a Christian white male, they come out and say it viciously when it was a bunch of white people, mainly, that were being targeted.
There's the article on newswars.com. Newsweek demonizes Christians for Las Vegas massacre.
Far right. One except killer was a Christian white male, even though there's no evidence of that.
See how vicious they are? Talk about hurting the families, but you've still got your right to be dirtbags.
Time Warner and Newsweek and to tell us that Hillary won the election and have a big color magazine showing her the night when she won.
It was all that was fake too, but you'll never know when the night she won. You had to print it before.
The whole thing's a lie. Even the photos aren't what you say they are because you're a pack of scum and I get it.
You know that we're beating you now and so you want to shut up.
Well, good luck. I'm never shutting up and we're winning and you're losing.
And despite all your censorship, guess how many views. I didn't have time to count it all up.
Let's stop it. Over 50 million views on our platforms. Extra not just our talk radio audience and not just our regular viewers over 50 million since Sunday.
See, because people heard me Friday and Sunday say the mass shootings of big events is about to start the next few days.
And then the media shows that goes, Oh, look how kooky even said it before and people go kooky to say it before.
See, they play this mind game where they're the authority. So if they tell you two plus two equals 100, it supposedly does.
And they say it with a con man's confidence.
Like, Oh, Alex Jones claims Hillary Clinton collapsed, but she didn't thinking you won't go look the video up.
See, they take our strongest points and they report on them like, Oh, look, he said it was coming the day it happened.
What a cook like you'll go. Yeah, what a cook. He predicted it right on target. That's really cookie. They think you're so weak minded.
There's an appeal to authority that it was the Washington Post New York Times or, you know, raw story or whatever.
You'll go, Oh my gosh, this man is an outrageous cook.
Look, he said that the sheriff's department believes there's more than one person involved and they found paraphernalia tying him to leftist groups and ISIS.
And that he pledged allegiance on a video to ISIS months before. And now it's coming out of the White House.
Now we learn why they're sitting on top of it. And we come back, I'll explain.
But it's all hidden in plain view. And now the top psych warfare experts are coming out like Colonel Shaffer and now the top psychologists and psychiatrists are coming out.
They're all saying, look at the motive, look at the time, look at the age. It's just like hashtag Republicans.
It's just like the Scalise shooting when they wanted to have a special election to fill and kill all 15 members of the team.
They plan this and they're moving. They're going to carry out the terror to bring in the police state that they themselves are executing.
But we are aware of their plan and are blowing their operation up on the launch pad, victory to the Republic.
The essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Immix Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Immix Essentials.
Visit InfowarsStore.com to learn more.
As most of you already know I am a voracious consumer of news and information and in the last 4 or 5 years doing more and more research I came across the fact that the elite establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors in many cases had much better nutrition than we do today.
And our ancient ancestors sought out the bones of the animals that they were hunting, killing and then processing and so I set out to develop Caveman.
But to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken but 7 other superfood ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time.
Infowars isn't just fighting the globalist. We're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the complete media assault and winning because of your support.
Caveman is back in stock. People absolutely love it. So please secure your caveman today at InfowarsLife.com or by calling toll-free triple A 253 3139.
It's not just our water we need to filter. It's not just our food that needs to be cleaned. It's the air we're breathing, especially for our children. The artificial particulates of the chemicals is absolutely weighing down our immune systems.
The same team based right here in America that brought you the Alexa pure groundbreaking water filtration systems have now developed Alexa pure breeze. Whether it's your home or office, you know it's yourself, your coworkers, your family, your children, to the best job you can to purify your air.
The elite are masters at poisoning our environment while themselves doing things that mitigate or avoid most toxic effects for themselves. The general public doesn't.
The Alexa pure breeze would be a steal at $300, $400, $500. One of these systems can keep 800 square feet incredibly clean. This is a system I'm personally putting in throughout my house, replacing older, more expensive filters that didn't do as good a job.
Find out why this system is so revolutionary today and then fullwarstore.com.
You've heard it here. I'm on televisions. Everybody knows it. I believe in the Second Amendment. I believe in people's lawful right to bear arms.
We're going to find the people who are doing this, take them out and shoot them. You take them out, they are traitors of this country and shoot them. Shoot them dead. I'll pay for the bullets.
Challenge Alex Jones to a boxing match. Show up with a semi-automatic that you've gotten legally and pop them.
I love to see that. In uniform.
I will not take your shotgun away. I will not take your life away. I won't take your handgun away.
Mr. and Mrs. America, turn them all in.
Don't run. We are your friends. As they blast you in the back.
In the next segment, I'm going to show some examples on Twitter of what the left is saying. They're like, we want to shoot Republicans. We're going to kill you.
You deserve a firing squad. All this critical, hateful stuff and in between celebrating that a bunch of conservative white people died.
They didn't have articles out saying, I made it up that the head of CBS legal didn't say that, that their vice president didn't say it, that all these movie stars didn't say it.
They're all over the place saying they deserve it. It's so schizophrenic because they operate like they control reality. It's like if you walked in and a guy is on top of your wife in bed.
It's your next door neighbor and you're like, Ralph, get off Jenny. And he says, Ralph, I'm not here. Your wife's not here. We're not in bed.
They're like, Ralph, I'm grabbing you by the back of your neck. I'm about to punch you in the face. You are in bed with my wife. He's like, oh, you're not.
I mean, they play these mind games like Jones claims the sheriff's department says they believe there was more than one person.
There's only video of them saying it. Jones claims, see, what they've inadvertently done is like made me the symbol of fakeness, but they decided Jones is now the symbol of fake news.
And then all they did was make me bigger by always attacking me and then saying, well, we can't get around the fact that it's ISIS and there's a major cover up.
So just say that Jones said it and then put him out there and just say Jones said it so then they won't think it's true.
Like, sir, the sky is blue and the public knows it is. Well, just say Jones said it's blue and then if he says it's blue, they won't believe it.
It's this weird game they play. And it just doesn't work, but they just keep doing it because they're delusional.
It's a grand balloon. Kurt Vonnegut talked about people will just pick some mindless thing to celebrate to have like this fake status and then just go around delusional like they're still in charge.
You're like a crazy person, you know, the street corner that's schizophrenic and thinks they're Pope John Paul II and you're not.
You're a drooling crazy person. And the left is basically one step better than that at this point.
And they just don't get it. They just don't understand it. We've got a guest coming in here, Mr Tatum, who did one video a few weeks ago.
It's got over 70 million views and every other video he's doing is getting millions of views out of nowhere and articulate, smart, compassionate police officer.
You can't compete with that when every video he does gets millions of views.
It's game over. People want that. They don't want you.
If we have 50 plus million viewers and listeners a week, conservatively, lately it's way above that, we're bigger than they are. You're bigger than they are.
They're a joke. They're just an organized group like syphilis or other diseases that are hard to get rid of, herpes, that won't go away.
It's like back pain because you were in a car wreck and shattered your back. It won't go away. They just won't go away.
And now they want to censor everybody and shut down independent media.
And you read the articles where they want to shut down. It's a chronicle of how right we are.
Jones says they found receipts in the hotel showing that he checked in two days earlier and a woman was with him and visited. Now the police department's come out and said exactly that a day after we said it.
Jones says that they believe other people were helping him and that radicalization material was found inside of the hotel room.
Days later it comes out.
Jones says that ISIS took responsibility and on stuff like that, ISIS did take responsibility. I didn't break that. They just go, Jones says it.
See, oh, well, that guy that, you know, that believes that the moon's made out of cheese and that the earth is flat.
And then they say all these things I don't say, all these things I don't believe, just like they do to you, just like they say, you're a racist because you don't like Obamacare.
You're like, actually, I read the congressional report. It massively increases prices. It was written by big banks to screw me. Oh, shut up, racist.
But here's the big news. Okay. I'm going to get to it right now. It's up on newswars.com.
And I say that because M4 is getting so much traffic right now. It's been bogging down a little bit. That's why we have prismplanet.com and newswars.com.
But also have a lot of original content on them as well. One site's not big enough, obviously, to have stuff on the front page.
So we've got the backup sites that are quite large in their own right, but I suggest you share those links.
Here's the story up on drudgerport.com, the left-hand column as well.
Former very credible, high-level Trump campaign official is reporting.
I think we should take the word claims out because he's a good, credible guy. He's reporting.
Las Vegas shooter made ISIS tape. Well, that's what ISIS said on Monday morning.
A former Trump campaign official is making extraordinary claims.
He was leaked information from within the White House that Las Vegas massacre gunman, Stephen Paddock, made an ISIS propaganda tape,
and that authorities are refusing to reveal the mass shooting was a terror attack.
Now, why are they doing that? And then letting the left run around and say that it's a Christian white gun owner with no evidence.
Because they told the president, and I've been told this by Monday and Tuesday, that, well, we believe it could be code.
It was supposed to be a big trigger for the all-out attack October 1st.
And we just don't want what he wrote and what he said getting out because it's supposed to be the launch of this.
The Democrats have already announced October 1st all hell was to be released to build up to November 4th,
the final overthrow of the U.S. government. Mainline Democratic party sites are saying that.
But that's how they get the president, because they know he's got a soft spot for keeping some secret militarily.
They go, sir, we don't want the enemy to know and we don't want to give them the attention.
Because pre-911, you never gave terrorist attention because then that only emboldens them.
A lot of terror attacks got covered up. Hundreds of weathermen attacks and communist attacks got covered up in the 60s, 70s, early 80s.
Because you don't want to give them the attention they want.
So that's the argument they gave the president, sir. We need to hold this off a while so that we can follow the leads and catch everybody.
And plus we believe it could be a mass triggering event. And that's indeed what was told her.
And I knew this by Monday night, Tuesday. And this is the information I personally held back.
Even though I knew that the president was being manipulated on this, in my humble view,
that's shown I have a little bit of gravitas at these things, researching it, being totally obsessed with it, being in right in the middle of it.
And that's why the police and the sheriff's department, the FBI, mid-level, low-level, started leaking the truth.
Because they don't want to sit here and watch gun owners and Christians and conservatives and white people blame as terrorists and let the media go with this narrative.
It's going to come out just like the feds ordered the other feds to be quiet in San Bernardino. They only held it back for three days.
Now we're four days in, five days in, and the question is, will they be able to hold this back?
That is the big question everybody has to ask themselves.
We read the article, we have the links to where we said radicalization research, looking at radicalization because of the material they found.
You see all of the reports we put out that have continued to be proven accurate, that they believe there was more people helping him,
that he was on drugs, prescription drugs, anti-psychotics, that he did have a visitor, a woman, that he did have the two suites, that he was there days before.
And this is just us, with the great pool of investigative journalists out there, bringing you the information.
And so you read the article, again I'm not here saying how accurate we are, just to say it, it's so folks know there's a fight over the narrative.
And they want to blame America for it. What conservative Christian would go shoot up a country music deal? It's just pure bull.
It's a perfect ISIS antifa target, they said they were coming October 1st, they did it, they don't want the president to admit this because they think that's the signal for the left to launch their main attacks.
The signal, they already know it's the signal, more attacks are coming any day, any hour, any minute, you know it.
Everybody has got to be watching their six right now, just like I said on Friday, and just like I said hours before on Sunday, stay with us.
Prepping for disaster and societal unrest has now gone so mainstream that even realtor.com is writing about it.
But the realtors are still embarrassed to cover the subject and eager to set themselves apart from what they call Uncle Travis's guns and canned foods militia vision of preparedness.
Well, the ants may have the last laugh on the grasshoppers, but the grasshoppers will still sing the tune if they can make money.
But maybe you don't have a Hollywood mansion where you can drop another million dollars to turn your home theater into a radiation proof bunker.
There are still very effective low-tech, low-cost things you can do to prepare.
In fact, even realizing that there's a need to prepare and doing anything to act on that realization increases your chances of survival.
Things that you do to prepare for an Armageddon scenario will help you to weather storms, to absorb an economic shock, or to protect you from home invasion.
Prepare for the worst-case scenario while you educate yourself and others and work for the best-case scenario.
Get more information at infowars.com. I'm David Knight.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used, and we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best-tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
More than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great-tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality infowars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public.
So please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
You keep saying you've got something for me.
Something.
Something you call love.
But confess you've been messing.
You've been messing where you shouldn't have been messing.
And now someone else is getting all your best.
These boots are made for walking.
These boots are made for walking.
I told you, CNN.
And that's just what they are.
I told you, Glenn Beck.
One of these days.
I told you, Obama.
I told you, Hillary.
We're going to walk all over you.
So get used to it.
Yes.
Yeah.
You keep lying when you ought to be true then.
That's right.
CNN.
And you keep losing when you ought to not bet.
You keep saying it when you ought to be changing.
I just bought a brand new box of matches.
But you ain't been right yet.
We're going to have five day waiting period on matches.
Well, Nancy Sinatra.
One of these days.
For all her problems was a good singer and so was her daddy.
But I tell you, she's a real pig.
And I just bought me a brand new box of matches.
And they were supplied by Nancy Sinatra.
You keep playing where you shouldn't be playing.
That's right, Nancy.
The murderous members of the NRA should face a firing squad,
she said on Twitter.
I just found me a brand new box of matches, yeah.
Truly outrageous, truly hateful.
And she's par for the course like the CBS vice president
and said the people there deserve to die.
She's not sorry for them.
They're white.
They're Trump supporters.
Just like folks in the Democratic Party said,
well, Houston's white, so I don't care if it's underwater,
even though it's 70% non-white.
Talk about racism.
Talk about self-loving.
Talk about hatred.
But that's the disconnect of the Hollywood big media NFL elite.
You know, Harry Weinstein, who is the embodiment of Hollywood,
is in a lot of trouble because women are coming out of the woodwork
basically saying he's like Bill Cosby.
Now that said, Hollywood has a giant pedophile problem.
I've never heard that about Mr. Weinstein.
I'm not defending him either.
But I've never heard he likes little boys or little girls.
So I guess if he was like Roman Polanski,
he'd have Meryl Streep out there defending him for, you know,
grabbing and basically kidnapping a 13-year-old girl
and then raping her in a very painful way.
I'm not going to go into details, but let's just say
there were still sodomy laws at the time.
There's also child rape laws still in the books.
So I'm not defending Weinstein.
He's a real toilet bowl creature that's anti-gun, anti-American.
He's pledged himself to the resistance more now.
He's put out a statement,
I'm going to really go after Trump and his supporters in the NRA now.
Please don't destroy me, media. Please, no, don't do it.
For not the classic harassment where they make men and women
liking each other illegal,
but the real deal like Al Gore does where you invite a woman in
to your office and is like, would you like to massage me?
I'm in a bathrobe, would you like to roof her my stretch marks?
The Lee actor takes plea deal on child porn charges.
I mean, what is going on here?
What is happening?
And these folks are getting rolled up, they're getting arrested,
but I mean, I'm sorry.
You got the deputy pope just basically charged
with over 100 children kidnapped in traffic.
This is a nasty, nasty group of people.
And that's why they hate flyover country.
They don't like us folks because we like women.
Our women like men.
We just want to live our lives.
We're happy.
We got our head screwed on straight.
We're tough.
We're enjoying life.
That didn't mean we're perfect, but we don't live in catatonic fear.
We know we're going to die.
We're comfortable with it.
We want to have a good life for our children in the future.
And we don't want you in our future Hollywood, you can be over there
and you can enjoy yourselves and you're not going to force feed our kids anymore.
You're not going to run our lives.
You're not going to take our guns.
You want to fight?
You got one.
But you have Weinstein and all his 13 meetings at the White House with Obama.
The fact that Hollywood thinks Obama's cool.
That Obama thinks there's cool.
There's nothing more uncool than Hollywood.
And I'm not somebody that got rejected by Hollywood.
Sing that.
I've had Hollywood going from wanting me, looking for me,
wanting to put me in movies to begging.
I've had the CIA beg me to stop.
I've had Hollywood beg me.
I've had them ask, whatever you want, whatever you want.
I've had the people with the highest levels of globalism.
Just what do you want?
You want 50 million?
You want 500 million?
You want sex?
You want drugs?
You know what I want?
You want your head on the wall.
Politically.
I've come to destroy you and probably get destroyed in the process.
I'm crazy.
Just like you want to destroy me, you're crazy.
Well, guess what?
You've found for every action, there's an opposite action.
For every yen, there's a yang.
For every child molester, there's somebody that wants to gouge your eyeballs out with ice picks.
For every satanist, there's somebody that wants to cut your head off, satanist.
You want to have some little kid you can have your way with?
You're all powerful.
I want to get in the ring with you with a baseball bat.
Let's just see who comes out of there.
Because you're going to see a real demon once you get in the ring with me.
That little fancy prance demon you think you've been dealing with.
You people are under judgment.
And it's only the beginning.
And I love it.
And God is opening the gates of hell so that you can be taken back to where you came from.
I'm going to come back after this break before he joins us and play part of a five-minute powerful breakdown by Brandon Tatum at the Officer Tatum on Facebook.
Tatum, bug 34, YouTube, BT Cruiser 34.
So that is coming up.
This is key intel needs to go mega viral.
Very, very, very, very, very important.
So again, info wars has all the latest breaking news.
But to see the mighty falling to our left and to our right.
It's simply amazing.
Now, I haven't even gotten really into the latest Vegas information.
And again, when I keep saying we were right, we were right.
It's because they're all over the news saying we're fake news and then saying things we never said and twisting things to then set the precedent to ban info wars material on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, you name it.
So that's why I keep walking through and prefacing our bona fides, our curriculum vitae, our history and why they keep misrepresenting it because we carry the light and the dark of the night that they're so scared of.
And you can go to the article by Paul Watson on news wars.com.
And it's on the left hand side part way down on drugs report.com.
Former Trump campaign official reports Las Vegas shooter made ISIS tape.
Well, that's just what I said on Monday.
And the AP reported they don't usually lie about what they take credit for.
And now he's connected to a bombing in New York and the very same material, the very same fingerprint and connected to gun running and connected to antifa and radicalization.
And we got the receipts.
We published the receipts.
We showed you the info we said he had a lady in their days before he checked in early.
Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam.
This one article by Paul Watson chronicles it all.
And the way Paul writes it, he just lets you make up your own mind.
I'd have some headline like total proof, you know, emerges that he was connected to ISIS.
But the media is going to try to cover all this up.
They're going to try their best.
They're going to try to say Christians did it with no evidence, but then say, oh, but don't look at the Muslims and don't look at the target.
Now, before we go to break here in just a moment, I want to just briefly thank listeners for their support of the broadcast and remind listeners that we are less or supported.
And it is your financial support getting good products in return that you need.
And that symbiotic relationship in that 360 win that makes everything here we do possible.
And we're not just going to have to end the next week, the brain force plus special 50% off.
I'm going to have to end even sooner.
Our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric, chaga, mushroom, bee pollen and more concentrate.
You talk about next level meal replacement next level compared to way.
And it's great to mix with way and then make shakes.
It's incredible.
My son is growing like a weed using it.
It's bigger than I am already at 15 incredible.
It is amazing.
Infowarslife.com 50% off caveman, but only a few days left.
It's about to end.
Okay, folks.
Our number two is only a minute and a half away.
Then we're having excerpt of Officer Tatum breaking down the latest on Vegas and then he'll be in studio with us for the rest of the hour with Colonel Shaffer and much more.
And then later he'll be back with Owen Shroyer with the war room three o'clock central standard time.
Mike Cernovich is coming up as well and a lot more.
I'm Alex Jones.
This is the info war.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X two and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones.
You may experience low metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield X two and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield X two and bio true selenium at info wars life.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to info wars life.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's info wars life.com.
I was on earlier but I wanted to talk gun control real quick because this is a hot button topic for me and for a whole bunch of people around the country.
So the thing that I want to reiterate is that don't be fooled by these idiot politicians who are trying to tell you that they care about your safety, they don't care about your safety, they don't care about you.
It's all about political agendas.
Listen if people really cared about gun control they would be putting military troops in Chicago.
Check this out. This is why I get mad at these people.
It's not just that I dislike what they say, they make me mad.
It makes me upset because for instance 59 people or so it could be more at a later date, lost their lives, one terrorist attack, right?
In Chicago alone over 60 people die every month. They're averaging two people a day.
This is a Las Vegas massacre every month and you know why they don't talk about this stuff?
It's because the city is run by Democrats, it's run by left lunatics that are pushing gun control in a city that has some of the most strict gun laws and they have the craziest crime rate.
Somebody's getting shot right now in Chicago, possibly dying.
Why are they not bringing up Chicago?
This is something that I thought about when Barack Obama was president. I'm like at what point are they going to say anything about Chicago?
You have a mass shooting, something, five people die. It is a nationwide outrage, people are crying and putting up memorials and praying.
But people are dying every day in Chicago and the reason I say Chicago because that city is a war zone.
I couldn't even imagine working in that city. To work in we may have, I don't know, 40-something murders a year.
And that's including people we have to kill.
I mean you're talking about 60 in a month. You're talking about two people a day. That's not even including the shootings.
I remember two years ago, and I keep bringing up this, it happens every year, Memorial Day weekend about two or three years ago, I remember looking at the news and I was shocked.
I couldn't even believe what I saw because it was 82 shootings in Memorial weekend.
I'm like 82 shootings can't be real. Verified, 82 shootings in one city, and it's not the whole city, it's one part of the city.
82 shootings, 14 dead. Somebody help me out. These people don't care about you.
They wait till tragedy happened and then they push their agenda. It don't work. It don't work. They run Chicago. It don't work. It gets worse.
It just makes me stop it already. Y'all need to stop.
Line us. We ain't stupid. You ain't gonna take our guns. It's not gonna happen.
And we're open to have a discussion about making it better. We can always improve things.
But you ain't taking the guns. Especially not when your city is an example.
When y'all cities are examples of failed policy, failed leadership, the country is not gonna end up like Chicago.
People don't care. They were gonna murder people no matter what. I shared this on Twitter. You can take guns. Take everybody's guns.
There's the start stabbing people. Take knives. They're gonna just run you over in the car. Wait till there's 100 people out there running everybody over.
Like guns are not the issue. High power rifles aren't the issue. Fully auto versus semi-auto isn't the issue.
The issue is that you got people cracking up. Their brains messed up. They're either evil, hateful, they're getting ISIS-related propaganda.
They're becoming terrorists. And that's Brandon Tatum. He's in studio with us.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at infowarstore.com, including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen,
concentrated peppermint mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo, and long-lasting natural deodorant.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
How do you feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality? Feel good about using EmRick's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new EmRick Essentials line of organic products. That's infowarstore.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Well, this guy is the king of viral videos. He was doing them the last month.
There's always a police officer out in Phoenix, a patriot, a Brandon Tatum, and one video last time I looked.
I'm sure it has more now. A week and a half ago on the NFL had 70 million views.
And I found out he was a listener when we had him on live.
And so he agreed to come out on his day off from out there on the front lines of the war against crime and all the craziness in Phoenix
and right here in the United States and come visit us. So it's great to have you here with us riding shotgun.
Yeah, thanks for being here. Thank you for having me here.
You bet. No, no. I love it. Wow. We just played one of your videos earlier at the end of the last hour,
getting into the whole tragedy and the statistics and the facts and the reality that you can particularly speak to as a police officer
with what's happening in Chicago and other areas versus what we saw in Vegas.
And I want to go there first. But have you seen this? I should open the show with this. There's just so much craziness.
President Trump warns ominously. It's the calm before the storm.
That's zero hedge at a meeting with generals last night, warning the calm before the storm.
And then they asked what he meant and he wouldn't say it.
He just basically said, you know, you just better enjoy yourselves.
Yeah, yeah. I think that was interesting when I heard that.
And that's one thing I love about the president is that he don't show his hand.
And I think that he leaves everybody guessing and I think that's his tactic that he used and is powerful.
He said, you know, you guys, what this represents, maybe it's the calm before the storm.
He said it could be the calm before the storm. Let's play the clip.
The audio is not great, but it's the only video and audio of this at a dinner with the generals and their wives.
Kind of saying, hey, I mean, I do the same thing when everything's nice, everything's going good.
You know, there's always a storm coming, especially when a hurricane is about to hit Texas.
We're like, this is the calm before the storm blue skies.
But in two days, it's going to be flooding. What is he alluding to?
He's getting everybody a cryptic heads up. Here it is.
Well, here is the calm before the storm. What's the storm?
It could be the calm before the storm.
We have the world's great military people in the storm and we'll tell you that.
And we're very grateful. Thank you all for coming.
Thank you.
What storm, Mr. President?
You'll find out.
Give us a hint on your answers.
Thank you, everybody.
Glad the satellite news was there and able to get that.
I don't think people realize just how precarious the world is right now.
Right, right. I think this is, you know, this is a different time in our country.
This is something that is becoming unique.
Things are happening almost every day.
You know, we have a wonderful president who's standing up for the people, someone who is, you know, not typical.
He's an amazing leader, in my opinion, and I'm excited for what he's doing
and I think it's going to be a good thing.
Speaking of holding things close to the vest, I get you don't want to tell military enemies what you're doing or what you're up to.
And that's why they're able to crush ISIS so quickly.
But I learned from folks who were pretty upset that they were blaming conservatives and Christians on Monday morning
when they reportedly found ISIS material just as ISIS was saying,
and they normally only take credit if they've actually done it, even AP admitted that.
I got that from sources inside the HRT. I'm going to leave it right there.
Then I've talked to some of the same folks more, and that's why the sheriff's come out and said,
yes, he obviously had help. We can't get into it.
And yes, we're looking at radicalization, meaning they found the material.
But then the word I've gotten out of the White House and our stories on dredgerport.com
is that they're sitting on it because they believe it was going to be a larger trigger.
But now he's connected to bomb material from New York, the exact same signature,
not just the same explosive, the same explosive, as you know, they could test it and know,
show their shitting on it. And I just, I don't know if tactically that's good
because Al Qaeda and the leftist groups, they know what they're launching.
They know what's going on. I'm sure the president knows more than we do,
but politically this needs to come out.
Yeah, but you don't want to send people in a firestorm.
One thing that I've learned doing some things related to law enforcement procedures
is that you don't want to show your hand.
You don't want to let everybody know what you're doing.
You don't want to tip off the enemy per se as far as in our country.
This is an enemy and law enforcement is obviously something different.
But you don't want to tip them off, man. You want to keep them guessing.
If we have information that will lead us down a certain direction,
we want to follow up and we don't want to have them, you know, flee the country.
Well, he's always said exactly he won't politicize and he's not doing it.
Right, right. I think, you know, I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good choice.
But then the Democrats are literally simultaneously saying everybody deserved to die there
and mainline Democrats and then saying, oh, it's really a right wing.
Right. So I think that what they're doing is they're hurting themselves.
I think that if we take a much more calculated approach,
in the end result, it'll come out better.
You know, if they can go and be radical and say all this crazy stuff
and then they look ignorant at the end of the day.
So I think if we take a calculated approach, we take the smart approach,
let them take the emotional approach.
I think that we'll fare better at the end of the day
when all the information come out and then we kind of figure out where this is leading.
Well, knowing the lingo when they say we're looking at radicalization,
that means generally they found material that points at that.
But I have that from good sources that have given us great info before.
So, I mean, I guess the Sheriff's Department though is kind of hinting at folks
because he's having to sit there and politically hear all this baloney.
Right. What you don't want to do is you don't want to come out,
give your hand and then have to retract stuff.
So I think that the things that they've hinted on is saying,
okay, we got a little information.
We're not going to say everything because then if the information changes,
if we get new information and then contradiction information that we have currently,
we don't want to have to come and retract and look like idiots.
So knowing the somewhat coded police speech that I've learned over the years
just watching and being a police officer yourself,
what have you gotten from these press conferences with the Sheriff?
I don't know. I don't know. I was a spokesperson at one point in time
and so I know that you can't give away everything.
You have to be calculated.
But I think that there's something that you want to give to the public
and it's okay to hint at certain things
so that you can give them some information without giving them everything.
So I'm looking at their approach and I'm watching it and I'm saying,
okay, they obviously have found something that have them with a little bit of credence
because they wouldn't say radicalization.
They wouldn't even bring it up if they didn't have something that could leave them down.
Well, I mean, I got this directly from the HRT people,
not the ones that actually went in but the group associated.
They said, this is pure bull.
This guy had antifa stuff everywhere and ISIS stuff and trips to the Middle East.
And then later it came out, his wife or his live in,
I guess you call it, common law life was traveling to the Middle East.
Right, right, right.
That's very, the thing is that these people that are in government positions,
these people are in law enforcement positions, they can't disclose everything.
And the thing is that they may know a lot more than what they're telling us.
And it's obviously suspicious.
This is crazy suspicious behavior, having somebody with,
it's evidence that there was some type of extreme tactical planning that he did,
sending money to a foreign country with his girlfriend.
It's all a lot of suspicious things, but we cannot expect to come from law enforcement
for them to touch on.
What do you make of 23 guns, thousands of rounds of ammo, cameras in the halls they now admit?
I mean, everybody knows at big hotels, especially Vegas, they dig to your stuff when you're gone.
There's no way, even if he was a VIP guy, that they'd let him do this.
Yeah, that's one of the most suspicious things that I see as a everyday person, everyday citizen,
somebody that may not be doing a lot of research on these things.
But just as a common citizen watching TV and looking at things in a logical perspective,
this is troubling.
This is something that is very, very weird to me.
How in the world can he get that many guns into a hotel room?
How can he carry those items with the weight of all that ammunition with nobody seeing him?
You know, it would suggest that somebody else had to be helping him.
He's not a young guy.
He's not a young, strapping fit guy.
Exactly.
And if you watch the video of the sheriff, he shakes his head and gets disgusted at that point
and says, there's no way he did this alone, but we can't talk about it.
He just shook his head.
And then he talked about radicalization and then just shook his head.
Right.
The beauty that we have with a platform like this is that we can speculate.
We can go into these things.
But what would make him out of the whole press conference?
The only time when he gives us the info, then he shakes his head and just looks disgusted.
Right.
Because he's probably disgusted.
Because he knows more than what he's alluding to.
He knows more than what we ever know.
And so I think that he's showing a level of disgust with some of these things.
But the beauty is, is that we can talk about this.
We can delve into this.
We can get into the weeds.
They cannot.
That's a lot of that's because they can't give out the info in case there's other perpetrators.
They'll know how to fix their story around what the police know and other reasons.
Exactly.
Exactly.
That's an investigative advantage that we have.
We can take them off.
I get all that.
But if the left's trying to start a revolution with this not coming out, it's got to be balanced.
I know this source from the White House is good.
They're sitting on top of an ISIS tape for this jerk.
And just wait till it comes out.
Right.
Because we're going to shove it down the throat of the anti-American left.
You get ready.
You get ready.
It's coming out.
We'll be right back.
Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry.
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense.
Sixty years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums of their own, air raid sirens.
But in the 21st century, there are silent weapons for quiet war.
The pathogens added to the food and water, the lining of plastics that destroy our vitality, turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death.
I personally counter this onslaught with Anthroplex.
Anthroplex is designed with known, organic, concentrated herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
While Anthroplex has turned so many heads today, it's time for us to take our bodies back in our own hands and it starts at infowarslife.com with Anthroplex.
Police departments across the country are now using an invasive surveillance tool called Stingrays, which use cell phone towers to intercept phone calls and text messages without warrants.
The technology comes courtesy of the FBI, who have forced our nation's police departments into signing nondisclosure agreements, forbidding them from publicly talking about the technology.
Needless to say, this is a direct violation of our Fourth Amendment, and they have no legal authority for warrantless Stingray spying, where we now know that police are collecting information on thousands of innocent people who are not even suspected of any crimes.
Once again, more evidence that the police state isn't coming, it's already here.
This is Darren McBreen, and I invite you to join the resistance infowars.com.
Mental vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the infowars.
infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvestrite freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvestrite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
Coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
Music
Brandon Tatum is our guest in studio, a patriot police officer from Arizona. They're in Phoenix. Wow, that is quite a beak to work.
I've known some other police officers there like Jack McClam. Even back in the day it was rough, and he's here with us talking about what's happening in our world.
And how long have you been on YouTube and Facebook? Because I've never seen you before, and suddenly I saw this video with 30 million views.
70 million views and all your other videos are getting millions of views. When you can consistently do that, that is really, really exciting.
The top CNN shows only have a million viewers. What's it feel like to have something bigger than CNN in your back pocket?
It's not soaking in. I think a very humble approach to it. I'm just thanking God I had a platform to do certain things and speak my mind and talk about how I feel.
I've only been doing this for about 18 months. I made a couple videos. I normally type stuff out on my Facebook and a couple friends will like it.
And then after a while I say, you know what, I'm better at talking than I am typing. Me too. So we have that in common. I'm better at talking.
So I say, you know what, I'm just going to make a video about what I would say. Because I overthink it when I type. Right, right.
I talk, I just say what I really mean. And then I got to worry about grammatical errors and stuff like that and spelling.
And so I don't have to worry about that when I talk. So it works out well for me. So I mean, I'm enjoying the fact that I feel like I'm impacting people.
Oh, you certainly are. And again, I can't follow all the videos and count them up like I can't do my own. But the last time you were on a week ago was like 50 something million.
I'm just guessing at 70 million or how many views total did that group of videos or video get?
I don't know yet. I mean, I looked at it was over 68 million that I've that I've looked at.
So my dead recording was right. Right, right. I mean, I've verified that it was over, I think around 68 million from, I think, four or five websites.
But there is definitely more websites that I didn't even other people that uploaded it. It's impossible to track. Right.
And that's what's fun about it. I'll do some video five years ago. They got like 50,000 views. And then all of a sudden I'll see it being shared with 4 million.
It's like it's like it's evergreen mainstream news didn't get big later. Nobody cares. But when it's truth, it just goes on and on.
Right. Exactly. Exactly. And that's the beauty of it. That's the beauty of internet that we can take advantage of it and we can continue to push out truth information.
We can tell how we feel and it goes viral. It was Mark Twain that said a lie goes halfway around the world before the truth can put his pants on.
But the truth never dies. Right, right. Lies die. They may go fast, but they don't last. Right. Exactly. I agree with that 100%.
And I see that you see it all the time. Even when I watch your show, I mean, those things are continuously circulating and I even go back in time.
And say, you know what? I'm going to search all of the old stuff that I missed, the things that you were saying you were talking about and some of the political views that was going on when I wasn't even in the politics or looking at anything.
Wow. How long ago did you find InfoWars? About a year ago. Whenever the campaign season really was getting off and going, I started looking because this was the only place I could find true information.
InfoWars tripled in size through the campaign. That's the thing. Trump's not perfect. Ron Paul's not perfect. You're not. I'm not. But everybody has a movement awakening and coming together and getting politically involved together.
We just win by being involved. Even if we don't win every time, which we've been winning a lot now, we're almost getting sick of it. No, I'm joking. But it's the process.
Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I think that the more we get exposed, the more positive things can happen. And I think that, like you said, the tripling and doubling of places like this
is giving us the advantage. And you know, on the news stations, the mainstream media, they try to make it seem like they're winning. They're not winning. We're winning.
You know, this mindset that we have, the people that follow the movement, the people that have common sense and good logic. I think it's the common sense movement. It's not right-wing or left-wing.
Right. Right. Exactly. I'm not a politician. You said you're not right-wing or left-wing. You're just common sense. Right.
Right. Common sense leads me down this road and it happened to be closely related to a certain political view. But I don't want to hold to a political view.
I don't want to say that I'm this way or that way because there's a lot about both sides that I disagree with me too. And some of these people are hacks. They're not even being honest with us.
So what I do is I say, I'm going to come to the conclusion by having common sense. And I don't care what other people tell me. I don't care what they say.
I look at a person, evaluate whether they're telling the truth or not. I go with that. If they're not telling the truth, I don't care what party they're in. I don't listen to them. And that's the way I feel about it.
That's exactly what's happening right now. We've got Colonel Schaefer coming up. You'll co-host with us. But just what is it like being a police officer? Because I don't want to even get into this because I have family and children.
I don't like to hype it up because it's just something I don't even want to get into. But now when I go out, the left does yell at me, spit at me, throw coffee at me, try to hit me.
They literally think I'm the devil. And then now I'm experiencing what police experience from the left, except you're getting shot in the back of the head. It's happening all the time.
And then CNN goes, well, cops better do a better job. That's why you're getting killed in Dallas and in Louisiana. And it's like, physically makes me mad.
And it's not even some kinship with the police. And I do care about the police, but it's not some butt-kissing event. It's that understanding that the injustice of you think a cop did something bad in another state.
So you go shoot five cops in the back. That is pure evil.
Right, it is. And I'm going to say this. I'll give people credit because I don't want to just stay on one side of it.
I think that people have done an excellent job responding to the negative things that have been going on in law enforcement.
Every time I go to like a convenience store, people are like, thank you for your service. We love what you do. I hear more of that than I do of the negative.
But the negative is increasing. Now you go on a call for service and you're trying to help somebody.
Cops are a lot nicer than they were 20 years ago or 10 years ago. The police for me just seem to be getting better and better.
Is that that I'm older? Is it distorted or not?
I think that they're just hiring. I don't want to say higher quality people. The expectation is different.
You know, we have to be. Standards are higher. Yes. Standards are higher. We have to be counselors.
We have to be able to enforce the law. We have to be mental health professionals.
We have a whole bunch of different hats that we have to put on. The demand is greater now.
And I think that's what they're doing. And we're getting a lot of exposure.
You know, we are doing more, I think, than we've ever done in history.
So what's happening then? Why does the left literally hate police and celebrate their random killing?
I don't know. I mean, I think we celebrate. I think the police department is an expression of America and all of core American values.
And so their hate of America translates and is projected on.
Right. And structure. I think it's structure. I think people on the left don't want structure.
They want completely free society. We can do whatever you want that correlates with their state.
But none of the responsibility. Right. Right. Exactly. It's like a little kid.
They want to do everything that they want to do, but they don't want the discipline.
But in actuality, the discipline is what's best for them. You can't just roam free and do whatever you want.
You have to have some kind of laws. You have to have those things in place to be of.
And notice, they don't want any responsibility, but they want to run our lives.
Right. Exactly. Just like a teenager will be telling their parents what to do while they won't even carry the garbage.
Right. Exactly. They expect the parents to allow them to do everything, but then receive everything.
I was like 17 and a half, just got out of high school, just turned 18.
And I told my dad, I don't like that carpet you just put in. My dad said, it's time for you to get the hell out of this mess.
He goes, I'm going to put the carpet in. And he was always nice. He said, it's time for you to have your own house.
You go get an apartment. I'm going to help you get one right now. You're out. You're out this weekend.
Yeah. I mean, you worried about the carpet, but I'm feeding you every day. So I mean, obviously that's that.
I don't like that carpet. It's like got pink on it or something.
Well, your mom likes it. And then it's time for you to go.
Interesting.
But because he gets it, like I didn't have my own life. I wanted to run his.
Right. Exactly. And I think to be, to be honest, I think that's how some of the people on the left,
I don't want to characterize every single person that leans left.
But I'm talking about these people on the far left. They have this childlike mentality where they don't want to be held accountable.
They want everything to go their way. And if it contradicts their belief system, it's somehow wrong.
So I think you've just crystallized it. Well, the left used to have more reasonable issues. They've gotten radicalized.
That's why they're so crazy. There were times when I wasn't Republican or Democrat.
I've seen your videos. You were the same way. I mean, I was neutral on McCain and Obama.
And then because McCain's so bad too, we'll be right back with Brandon Tatum.
I'm Alex Jones and Colonel Schaefer. Stay with us.
This is Key Intel on the latest on Vegas straight ahead.
They want to hang this around America's neck? Not so fast. We know who's behind it.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America,
it'll come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white male! You're a white male!
Welcome to The War Room, the latest expansion in Infowars Live Broadcasting.
We are live weekdays from 3 to 6 p.m. Central at infowars.com.
And this YouTube channel right here that you've landed on, please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications.
You can follow us on Twitter at War Room Show.
We are going to have the most powerful guests, the most powerful hosts.
We'll be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls.
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long.
The silent majority is no longer silent. This is The War Room.
This is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Whether it's your home or office, you owe it to yourself, your coworkers, your family, your children.
Do the best job you can to purify your air.
The elite are masters at poisoning our environment while themselves doing things that mitigate or avoid most toxic effects to themselves.
The general public doesn't.
The Alexa Pure Breeze would be a steal at $300, $400, $500.
One of these systems can keep 800 square feet incredibly clean.
This system I'm personally putting in throughout my house replacing older, more expensive filters that didn't do as good a job.
Find out why this system is so revolutionary today at InfowarsStore.com.
Infowars features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
The difference with our super blue, fluoride free products, refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfowarsStore.com.
That's InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
It's shaping up to be a very deliberate act of terror.
This is beyond dispute. The question becomes motive. Everybody seems to be searching for a motive.
Martha, I would argue most of the clues of the motive is right in front of us.
First off, this individual parallels in many ways by age and by predisposition of being unstable.
The shooter who attacked Congressman Scalise back in June, the Hodgkinson attack.
At a very similar age, they are both considered unstable.
And so in many ways, after talking to both the psychological professional and some other folks in law enforcement, there's a lot of parallels there.
Let's look at the target as well. It was a politically selected target.
I think the target being selected and let me say this is the perception based on available information.
The perception was there's going to be a lot of pro-gun folks there, Trump supporters at this concert.
So therefore, I believe the perception was by the shooter, by the individual who did this, by Patek, that this was a legitimate target of political expression.
Martha, this may be something people don't like to understand, but the very reason that Hodgkinson did what he did, and I believe Patek did what he did,
is because the left has now encouraged the use of violence as an extension and use of political speech.
And this is what we have to be very careful about, the slippery slope, the idea here that somehow violence can become part of someone expressing themselves.
And I think that's the real danger here. Let me sell something else out there.
There was no violence perpetrated by against Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton during the run-ups to this election.
So this has become a feature of desensitization by the left.
The Cathy Griffiths beheading, fake beheading the president, things like this, I think, are what's pushing a lot of folks to believe now that somehow violence is an acceptable piece as politically justified.
Exactly.
We will see.
All right. Joining us in this segment, the next is Lieutenant Shaffer, Lieutenant Colonel, Tony Shaffer, who I just can't say enough about his bio,
the work he did exposing 9-11, able danger, exposing criminal connections to radical Islam, exposing Benghazi, just always a trailblazer giving us the best intel.
LondonCenter.org, he's also a bestselling author and researcher and works in a lot of different clandestine areas today, and advises Congress.
I have to know the president and a lot of their folks, but I'm not going to get into it.
One of the most highly respected analysts out there, not just Army, but of course working with the CIA, Colonel Shaffer.
I have Mr. Tatum here with us, Brandon Tatum, the police officer who's put out the viral video exposing the NFL and more.
He's riding shotgun with us.
But wow, that was two days ago.
What do you know now are intel from White House sources is that they know there's an ISIS connection and they have the video of him pledging himself,
but they don't want the ISIS cells to be triggered by it or to know what intel we have.
Now, this is out now.
Drudge is linked to our story.
This comes from high level connections in the White House.
I know you can't get into anything classified, you know, but what is the latest with the sheriff's department now saying, indeed, they believe he probably was radicalized
and there's no way he acted alone.
Close quote.
What are they signaling to us?
And what does the target tell us?
Is that not the motive?
Yeah.
Look, you're spot on, Alex.
Let me walk through kind of the piece of logic, which I think they brought us to where we're at.
And by the way, you and I spoke about this before, and I think you and I even predicted at some point that you would see emerge a link between ISIS and Antifa.
The violent radical left.
And I think this is where it's finally coming to.
You know, enemies of a sword will work together for purposes of common interest.
And I think that's where it's all going.
So I think the FBI was completely insane to dismiss out of hand within hours of the shooting, quote, unquote, no terror connection.
I think that was just flat out stupid.
And since then, I appreciate you playing back the audio.
It's like, look, I believe that we are seeing now a merge of concepts between terror organizations.
And, you know, I got some flack for that interview, by the way.
You may have seen folks out there very unhappy that I was branding the attack, a terror attack.
Heck, I even had Buck Sexton on the air try to contradict me saying, oh, no, no, this is just some individual acting by himself.
And I both know the pattern was very clearly on that this was part of an act which was supported by a larger network.
So this is where I think.
And by the way, shouldn't we just inject to have the FBI uncharacteristically in the morning when the bodies aren't even called say no ISIS connection when ISIS took credit?
Then even AP said, normally they tell the truth when they take credit to have them do that shows me somebody told them shut up.
And we know Obama has these stay behind networks in the FBI. They don't want this to be ISIS.
They wanted this to be Tea Party. They wanted to put this around Trump's neck.
Oh, if you look at the messaging on the left, you've seen repeatedly that a white Christian man did this is kind of like there's no evidence that he's Christian.
No evidence of the act alone.
The act is more fact.
Again, we have to look at this at this point as a black hole as a singularity.
You don't know what's in the middle of that hole, but man, looking at the periphery, looking at the disclosure by the sheriff saying he was radicalized, looking at the fact the sheriff's come out and said there's now a global search, a global investigation going on, the FBI confirming that.
And also then the sheriff going on to say that there's no way he could have acted alone.
So, you know, being an intelligence officer, you know, I tend to try to follow the facts.
You know, the law enforcement column, column clues, we call them indicators and the indicator here in this case, as I've been tracking, is that this was a deliberate, well-planned, well-thought, multiple facets and probably even had included at some point had he escaped the room or someone escaped the room with him to employ an explosive device,
explosive similar to the explosives that were linked to the bombing a few weeks ago, a few months ago in New York City.
So, you know, a pattern is emerging, Alex, and this is a factual pattern.
This is not somehow an overreach by those who follow this as part of our professional work.
And I think the American public needs to take two things from this first.
I'd be completely alarmed by the fact that we have not seen the end of people within the administration playing games behind the scenes to your point.
I think there's a lot of Obama's stay behind still in the positions of political influence who are essentially not telling the American people the truth.
Secondly, as long as those people are inside of government, you have the potential for continuation of really not only bad policies, but bad things like this being almost impossible.
Being almost encouraged to happen.
And I would argue that there are direct links.
I was talking to a lawyer today who was involved in this sort of thing.
I would argue there's direct links between the Democrat Party, the Obama folks, the Clinton folks, and the folks still in government.
There's no reason to believe, Alex, that they're not communicating on a daily basis trying to work to undermine the goals, objectives, and desires of this president.
And so this is something we have to clearly pay attention to.
And we have top psychiatrist Dr. Michael Wiener, and we've got a lot of other psychiatrists coming out.
Wellner and others saying that clearly it's just like the Scalise attack, which researchers now believe was a coordinated, probably funded attack to try to kill 15 members of Congress to force a special election.
We know there's a behind the scenes investigation there.
And I understand they come to Trump and they say we're trying to catch the bad guys.
We don't want to know what avenues were going down, but clearly ISIS, Antifa, their merger, they said this big October 1st attack was coming.
That would lead into November 4th when the main Democratic Party groups say we're going to get violent and start killing conservatives and overthrowing November 4th.
I mean, look, I mean, I know they came to the president and said, sir, it's too soon to put out any info, but now we know the White House has been briefed that indeed this guy is ISIS.
And now it's being reported by major New York papers and the Las Vegas Review Journal that explosive possessed by Stephen Paddock may have been used in New York City bombing.
And these ISIS networks that he was in to sell them weapons, which is where he got the money to then be able to gamble millions of dollars a year.
I mean, this is really looking like Fast and Furious Part 2.
Well, I don't know all those facts.
I mean, some of those things, you know, my source has not gone that far.
I do, I have been told, obviously, there's reasons they're not telling the entire story. And I alluded to that both last night on the air, on Fox and with you now.
It's like, look, there are certain things that I know for a fact.
And look, I support certain things being held back as investigative leaders that they have to follow through on.
But to your point, Alex, they need to follow through.
It's not one of those things they can say, oh, yeah, tell the president we're doing this, but not do it.
This is where, again, my judgment is you need to continue to replace anybody who you believe is more loyal to President Obama and the Democrat Party than the American people.
That's just that simple.
And you need to have investigators who are willing to not only follow where the facts lead, they need to actually think about what it means.
Tony Shaper, stay there.
I want to get big picture with you straight ahead and we have Brandon Tatum, a police officer here with us. We'll get his take as well.
Thank you, Colonel Shaper. We'll be right back. I'm Alex Jones.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff I said. There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose. It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com. Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee.
And it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Dropped by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
and that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield at infowarslife.com.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com, select your favorite product or products.
Click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at infowarslife.com.
Free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Operation Dark Arts is one of his best selling books.
He's Colonel Shaffer joining us live.
Stay with us, folks. It's a global transmission and you are the resistance.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Brandon Tatum's riding a shotgun with me some to the next hour.
He's just here right now listening to Colonel Shaffer jumping anytime, my friend.
Colonel Shaffer, we're talking a lot during the break. Some of we can't get into, obviously, on air.
But just in the 9, 10 minutes we have left, give us your data dump, the dates, the left cons for revolution.
All these ISIS connections being covered up.
Minute one, the sheriff's department basically sending out signals that we're on target.
What do you make of this threat assessment and the future battle window?
Yeah, so going back to the long-term history of what we've seen in the past, kind of looking at the past as prologue.
Look, we've seen ISIS continuing to desire. It's been aspirational, but as we talked about two years ago,
that they were going to do this. While it was aspirational then, ISIS is one of the network they could cooperate with.
They said we want liberals, we want white people that don't look Arabic that we can use to correct the attacks.
Right, so we've seen parallels here. I mean, look, we've seen the Muslim Brotherhood penetrating serially our media.
They've been working to penetrate basically criminal organizations for purposes of exploitation and access.
So we've seen that over there with the Brotherhood. So ISIS is taking a page out of their playbook doing the same thing.
So we have to be very vigilant. I think this is what we are seeing now is this kind of merging.
We've seen organizations like Hamas partner with other organizations to do terror attacks, even if they don't necessarily agree on every fact.
So this is what I think we're seeing here. We have to be very clear, very steely-eyed. And again, let's just follow the facts.
The second point is, you know, as much as I'm hearing and you're hearing the same thing, a lot of the background motivation,
by Attic, by the reason he did it, is going to make people very uncomfortable.
But you've got to get it out there. You've got to tell the American people the truth. You've got to be straight with them,
because they kind of already know why they're dragging their feet.
And again, going to the point of the attack of Congressman Salise against him by Hodgkinson,
does parallel what the left has been pushing for from day one for the President's victory.
The idea that they will use antifa, they will use violence as a method of not only resistance,
but then also creating a path back to some level of power.
And so this is what they're laying out. This is what they're trying to do.
So again, I don't want people to think somehow this is not substantiated by the facts.
Unfortunately, Alex, as you know, over the years we've talked, I only go with what the facts show.
Sure, they're going to attack you because before the bodies were cold, they said,
there were terror attacks all over the world that day by ISIS,
and they weren't even taking credit for those because those were lone wolves.
They weren't even sure were their people. They were very proud of this guy.
They were very proud of their execution. They had their literature ready.
They said, we have him months ago swearing allegiance.
And now I've got it from White House sources that they're sitting on top,
because much of ISIS is their own internal stuff, as many have said,
streaming back to the ISIS folks, coordinating this.
And he obviously had help, and then it looks like he may have been the cutout.
Have you gotten any intel on those lines?
Well, look, that's one of the rumors I've heard that's a very strong possibility.
You know, look, you and I both know, and I'm not sure if he even said this.
You know, this guy was videotaping everything.
He had all these cameras. Do you really believe?
Do you really believe he didn't have them turned on and using them for the purpose they were designed?
This guy was very meticulous. This guy was hyper meticulous.
He worked for the IRS, which is a clue. He was an accountant.
He's done all these different things.
He drank Pepsi.
Right. And so liberals, I mean, literally conservatives do not drink,
especially in the Obama era, conservatives drink Coca-Cola.
If you drink soft drinks, liberals drink Pepsi.
And that's a big clue.
That's a big clue. But my point being, Alex, is that this guy followed a certain pattern.
He developed himself in a certain way. He had a modality of operation that's very detailed.
What do you make of the big defense contractor he worked with?
I mean, the whole thing and the planes and the hundreds of thousands of dollars spent per gambling trip,
and he was a smart investor, sounds like money laundering.
Well, it's very possible. I mean, we don't know.
But I will say this about him.
He was brilliant in the fact that he was able to establish that money, those resources,
I think he was just like Hodgkinson, except he was smarter.
He actually had a better understanding of how this is going.
And that's my next question.
It's later admitted that Hodgkinson wanted to go in and have a special election,
kill as many Republicans as possible.
The Democrats are saying hashtag hunt Republicans.
They're hashtag hunt cops.
CNN, when more cops get killed, go, well, you know, cops are bad.
You need to reform yourselves, like, because some cop might have done something wrong
five states away than you deserve to die.
It turns out the cop didn't do something.
I mean, this is craziness. Why is the left betting on this giant revolutionary fervor
and saying starting October 1st, we're going to launch building up to November 4th?
I mean, they're the ones saying it, and then none of the media is even focusing in on that.
If you look at all this, are they just attempting, like many intel people have talked to,
to just hype things up and hope some other crazy person picks up on it so they can have clean hands?
I think there's always inevitability and encouragement of a kind of a parallel event, no doubt.
And let's look at what they focused on, Alex.
The first thing that was leaked off the crime scene was pictures of the guns.
Oh, the guns are bad. Oh, boy, you know.
And I've seen, again, them ignoring the facts that you and I have just talked about.
All the things which have been said in press conferences, do official sources,
completely and summarily being ignored by every media outlet except for Fox.
And to that point, the narrative they're trying to put forth is it's all about the guns.
Guns are bad. People who have guns are bad.
And then think about the irony of this.
Of course, at the same time, they're saying, you can't trust the police.
You know, don't trust the police, but we don't want you to be armed either.
So there's really no cohesion to the argument.
It's all about trying to upend via this fervor.
They want to get people into a basically a fervor, an emotional fervor saying,
oh, my God, we have to do something. It's all about emotion.
Exactly. It's like blow it all up, even though they don't have a blueprint for what they're going to build new.
Right. Exactly. And so I think that the answer is that they don't have a plan.
They lost access. Hillary's loss has completely left them, I think, adrift.
And so turn the chessboard over.
Basically, we're looking for strategy. We're seeing a temper tantrum.
Yeah. In official all aspects, all levels temper tantrum that is informed by by hate is fueled by radicalization.
And frankly, as I said, you know, the tape you ran, this is becoming an accepted form of political speech on their side.
It's just what it is.
Lieutenant Colonel Tony Schaefer, LondonCenter.org bestselling author.
Follow him on Facebook and Twitter, Brandon Tatum, police officer,
a patriot, very popular talk show host in his own right.
Sitting there listening to Colonel Schaefer, I see you nodding your head.
What's your comment or statement or question?
Well, I think that it's, you know, if anyone was to to having in mind that this is not some type of assisted calculated thing,
they have to be foolish because in law enforcement, just looking at the operation super sophisticated.
Right. Right. I mean, there's no way that a that an older gentleman with supposedly no tactical experience can pull this type of stuff off.
If I brought 20 bags up to any hotel, they'd come see what I was doing.
Right. I mean, how did he, you know, how can he physically get all of these guns up there?
How could he physically carry all that?
I can barely get my wife and all my kids in a hotel.
This is so, so, you know, I'm the same way, you know, but, you know, I think that you have to look at, be logical about it,
have some common sense.
You pull up with a bunch of Pelican cases that the bell hops are going to be looking at this.
Right. Unless you, unless you put something in and a muffle the, the shales, I mean, you're going to hear, you know, guns.
I mean, bullets rattling and going up staircases.
What about that, Colonel Schaefer? Just the whole getting it into the building and.
Oh my goodness. Yeah, I could agree more.
I mean, first off, I am appalled that we've seen zero video, the incidental videos.
As you know, Alex and being out there, there's video cameras everywhere in those.
They track everything.
So the fact that we've not after a week seen anything indicates to me, you know, look, there's something up with that.
There's, there's just absolutely no way he was not caught.
Some aspect, checking in, moving.
And again, this guy was not a physical specimen of health for him both to move the equipment and then during the shooting itself,
for him to move past, just look at the diagrams, Alex, of the room and those two windows to physically move between those points.
The same time, reloading, moving up and around for him to do that by himself is physically probably pretty darn impossible.
Even, even some fit person would have a hard time going back and forth doing that.
So again, I agree.
Common sense.
Kids, kids, think for yourself.
You got to look at the facts.
You got to look at the reality.
You got to look at the physics.
That's right.
LondonCenter.org.
We've got a 70 second break.
I've got a short little five minute segment of Colonel Schaefer can do it.
I want to specifically ask him separately about the NFL protest, the stuff we saw with Puerto Rico, just all the hoaxes.
I got to jump off.
You got to jump.
Okay.
Well, please come back soon with us then.
I will.
Hey, thanks.
Thank you very powerful.
I'm going to come back there and ask you about the NFL.
I was going to ask you too about that.
Straight ahead on the other side, the third hour is only 70 seconds away.
There went Colonel Tony Schaefer, always powerful analysis.
Stay with us.
As most of you already know, I am a voracious consumer of news and information.
And in the last four or five years doing more and more research, I came across the fact that the elite establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors, in many cases, had much better nutrition than we do today.
And our ancient ancestors sought out the bones of the animals that they were hunting, killing, and then processing.
And so I set out to develop caveman, but to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken, but seven other superfood ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time.
Info Wars isn't just fighting the globalist, we're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the complete media assault and winning because of your support.
Caveman is back in stock.
People absolutely love it.
So please secure your caveman today at infowarslife.com or by calling toll free triple A 253 3139.
Iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Rallying Patriots worldwide in defense of human liberty.
It's Alex Jones.
Robert T. Masaki is coming up.
We just had Colonel Tony Shafer, such a smart guy on.
What a powerful interview. Wow.
I know you've been on the SWAT team there in Phoenix, a major city. You can't get into the tactics of that, but we were talking during the break.
You were saying massive sophistication.
Right, right. Actually, I was in Southern Arizona.
But yeah, I mean, anybody with common sense to have any kind of tactical experience can understand it.
The things that we've seen, this guy is not operating alone and he's not operating on his feeble tactics.
Supposedly, he never shot a gun before. He never had any tactical experience. He wasn't in the military.
For him to choose particular vantage points, egress, different things like that is spectacular for somebody who has the character and personality that I guess we know of in this gentleman.
I mean, you know, 23 guns.
Right, right. For a person that never owned a gun before, supposedly, his family is saying, for him to have 23 guns at one point, he must have at least tried them out, tested them.
But what do you make of his brother first saying, oh, he didn't have any guns, wasn't into it, wasn't political, he didn't do it too.
He had all the guns. I mean, the brother's been caught lying.
Right, because you know, this is the truth of the matter. You know, sometimes people defend their family members.
You know, you've got a family member that's crazy. You may not want to expose them right away, but you know, you know, and they know that this guy wasn't hiding in the closet and not showing signs and symptoms of being psycho.
You don't just go from being a normal person to doing something crazy like that.
And nobody see a clue, not even sleep patterns, not even the fact that they won't answer the phone when you call or they have an attitude all of a sudden.
His girlfriend testified that, I mean, I say testified. She spoke and said that he was having these nightmares.
You're going to scream for hours. Yeah, you don't just you don't just go from being a normal person to screaming for hours at night.
It's it's very, very suspicious. And I think that his family know there's other people that are out there that know who he is and thought, you know, his neighbors even say that, you know, he's kind of weird.
Why do you think then the family at first just said, oh, no, no guns, totally normal.
They're trying to protect the the personality of their family member. They don't want to they don't want the media to take it and run with it and make him out to beat it.
We all know the casinos are 6040 if you're a better one 7030 and others.
He always was a winner. I mean, get back to the money laundering saying all these connections, millions a year on gambling supposedly winning. I don't buy it.
Right. I mean, there's two sides to every coin, you know, so I think that he could be very, very sophisticated.
He could be going to the casinos and playing all the time. Therefore, he can kind of game the system.
But at the same time, it's highly suspicious. I don't have any information about it, but I'm not going to sit there and look at it face value and say, oh, this guy is just such an expert and he just went in all the time.
So I think there's definitely a component there, too.
We've got Robert Kilis talking about his book, the economy in the world, everything that's happening just overall.
I'm not in some butt kissing mode of President Trump, but four trillion in the stock market, hundreds of billions of new jobs, a million, six new jobs, 3.1% growth rate.
They said he could never had the border, 69% reduction in illegals coming across, NAFTA gap being renegotiated, TPP dead, all these other good things, cutting all these regulations, trying to get middle class tax cuts.
I mean, wow, why don't why doesn't the establishment just get out of the way because they're richer even getting richer Goldman Sachs.
They say he's had the biggest profits ever, but they still want to destroy Trump.
Right, it's about being haters and I think that it's obviously have a lot of political turn to it, but when people hate on you, they don't want to see you succeed.
I don't care what you're doing. He could find a cure for cancer today and they're going to find an excuse to demonize what he's doing.
And it's just because they're hating it. They're not the ones in office. They're not the ones running the country.
They can see that their agenda is falling apart day by day and they can't handle it.
At all costs, they're going to try to ruin his reputation.
And that's it. And if he didn't deliver it, be one thing. They've had his hands tied behind his back. He's already delivered so much. It's crazy.
Right, right. He's done so much for this country and they don't want to talk about it, but you know what? We see it.
The people like myself who have been, you know, who have awakened to the reality and we go out and vote.
I mean, we're waking up to this. I can see. I can, you know, I have my own mind. I can look at a piece of paper.
I can look at the news. I can look at the stocks. I can see that he's progressing.
And I can see that I personally feel better with him being the president and I don't care what they say.
They're just making up lies.
And so they're throwing big tantrums like you said earlier.
Right. Like a kid throwing a fit over a popsicle.
Stay with us.
It is dearness only that gives everything its value.
Heaven knows how to put a proper price on its goods.
And it would be strange indeed if so celestial an article as freedom should not be highly rated.
Britain, with an army to enforce her tyranny, has declared that she has a right not only to tax, but to bind us in all cases whatsoever.
And if being bound in that matter is not slavery, then there is no such thing as slavery upon earth.
Even the expression is impious for so unlimited a power can only belong to God.
Thomas Paine, The American Crisis.
Music playing.
Robert Kiyosaki is coming up. Then we have the former Trump administration official campaign official who's given us good leaks before.
Getting into the fact that why they're sitting on top of the fact this guy had al-Qaeda.
He did have al-Qaeda videos.
I have other sources that I obviously can't get into details of with even more proof, but I can't give the information out at this time.
But that is the information coming out.
So Brandon Tatum, let me give out your information here, police officer.
They're in southern Arizona at the officer tatum facebook.com forward slash tatumbug34 youtube.com btcruiser34.
If you just joined us, you've had a lot to say about the NFL, the Vegas attack.
You've had everything you say has been viral.
Folks really resonate with it.
You've got the floor in this segment.
You've been patiently sitting there while I had Colonel Schrafer on.
Kind of repeat what you've been saying. You've been on fire during the breaks.
But what's really going on, why the police can't say what's going on at this point and where you see this all going.
And then into the gun control issues, the actual statistics of why.
This is a tragedy.
But to say it's the biggest thing in the world and then try to blame gun owners and say ban the NRA.
I mean, that's crazy. They're the conspiracy theorist. They're covering up.
It's probably an Islamic attack.
And then they're blaming it on us at the same time.
Right, right, right.
And when it comes to law enforcement, like there's certain things that we can and cannot do.
We will not do to preserve our own tactical advantage.
So we may have information about certain things.
We will never disclose those things because we have to have the advantage.
Listen, when things happen, the citizens aren't the ones that have to do the takedowns.
The citizens aren't the ones that got to get the search warrants and things like that.
So we have an advantage by having the upper hand,
having information that nobody knows about understanding how to do counter, you know, get counter tactics on different things.
So this is an advantage for law enforcement.
So I'm not surprised that they're not disclosing everything.
And I think that they're doing a good job at attempting to allude to certain things about radicalization.
And, you know, the fact that they believe that he's not acting alone.
It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that this person has so many guns,
so many different tactical advantages that he could not have done in itself with his level of experience.
So I think that's pretty much, you know, my take on a law enforcement perspective.
And as far as the gun control, this is the most ignorant, unreasonable thing I've heard coming out of the mouth of Democrats in the left,
is I don't understand at what point do they make to try to ban guns or try to have some level of gun control.
This person purchased firearms legally.
So the laws that we have in place are almost some of the most strictest laws.
And this guy was still able to take advantage of it.
Barack Obama's administration pushed the bump stock, a mechanism that they put on a rifle.
I've never even heard of a crime being committed with that.
And now suddenly it is, but I've talked to experts.
They say, that's not a bump stock.
That's clear chain fed.
I'm not an expert on firearms.
I've had the experts on.
It sounds like it was possibly chain fed.
I couldn't imagine.
I mean, I had the former leader of SEAL Team Six on, and he didn't let me say that, but it's true.
And they go, look, it's belt.
They even know the gun.
Right, right.
There's certain ones that have that.
They know him like a woman.
They say it speeds up, it slows down.
Right, right.
And I couldn't look past that.
I mean, I don't, it didn't sound like he had a 30 round mag.
So, I mean, you're talking about rapid fire.
Yeah, it's not stopping it.
Exactly.
It's not 30 and then stopping.
It's belt.
Right, right.
And I can see why, if that was discovered, why they don't want to let the public know
that this person has access to this and some certain different things, they don't want people
to go crazy.
Because what's going to happen if you give them information without giving them everything
without them understanding the totality of it.
You can cause people to freak out and then they make false claims and do other stuff
that's unreasonable and it's not helpful.
That's right.
By the way, this broke about an hour ago on infowars.com, another Paul Watson article
by the great investigative journalist, Laura Loomer, who helped approve the receipts and
the fact that he checked in days earlier.
Our moles inside gave us to police on Monday.
I think it was done.
So they've given it to us.
Valley entries prove Paddock checked in three days before date given by authorities.
Govind was in the hotel on September 25th.
That is now double confirmed.
We need to send that to drudgerport.com.
We need to link that to the top of Paul's article that already deals with all this.
So Valley entries from Mandalay Bay prove the Govind, Stephen Paddock, checked in on
September 25th three days before the official date given by authorities for when he checked
in September 28th.
Reporter Laura Loomer obtained an image from inside Mandalay Valley Center, which shows
Paddock's car was first logged on September 25th.
Below the computer display, a handwritten note is available that states Stephen Paddock,
9251002.
According to Loomer's source, the note was written by an FBI agent when he asked all
his staff details on all in and out times for Paddock's vehicles.
So that shows the FBI knew.
According to Loomer's picture proves the FBI misled public about Hashtag Stephen Paddock's
check in date.
Laura Loomer, we are going to get her as at least a contract reporter.
She's amazing.
According to official sources, Paddock didn't check until September 28th, three days before
the massacre.
What do you make of this as a police officer, SWAT guy, all this?
I mean, I don't want to bash the FBI, the police, but I understand they don't want people
to know it's a terror attack, but why?
Because we've confirmed all this.
I mean, they're not telling us what went on here.
So it's one thing to not tell folks what, you know, it's another thing to lie.
Right.
I think the leverage should be put on the FBI.
I think the law enforcement only have a certain capacity to even.
The FBI doing this.
It's the sheriff that keeps coming out and contradicting him.
Right.
The sheriff is trying to do the right thing and saying, look, we're not going to play
the political games.
We're not going to, we're not going to do that.
We're going to give you information that we can and the best of our ability, but it's
discouraging.
And you know, the thing is, is that some people, they may not want to believe that the FBI
does these things.
And I'm not saying that the FBI is obvious.
You know, they have obvious flaws.
They have some good people, but they're famous for this.
Exactly.
I don't want to step on anybody's toes and say that.
But what I'm saying is that, you know, even facts of the reason Hillary Clinton is not
in prison right now is indications that they're not always truthful.
And they're not always doing what's right for the public.
And I think that this is another example.
They have some type of agenda.
I don't know what it is.
Maybe they don't want to be embarrassed, but there's no way that they should not be.
I mean, this is the thing.
If they weren't going to give information, that's fine.
But don't give us fake information.
Don't give us lies.
Don't give us fraudulent stuff.
If you're going to tell us when he checked in, at least tell us the true time.
If you're not going to tell us the true time and you have a reason why, don't tell us anything
at all.
But what it does is it makes it discredit their argument and we don't even trust anything
they say.
I was about to say though, we've got the internal documents.
We've got the receipts.
We've got the valet info and it keeps all checking out with the sheriff's department later.
And then we've got the FBI doing this.
Paul's headline, we'll put it back on screen, isn't even strong enough.
The headline really should be FBI caught lying about when the shooter checked in.
So this is very, very, very, very serious.
Valet entry proves Paddock checked in three days ago and then our reporter ended up talking.
We got to get Laura Lomar on there in the fourth hour with the great Mike Cernovich as well.
But wow, this is just crazy.
Right, right.
Another thing that struck me was that why did they come out so soon and try to disconnect
his motives, his tactics, his responsibility to ISIS?
When they check in credit.
Right, when they've already taken credit, they come out and say, no, there's no evidence
of it, no tracking.
I mean, listen, this is a serious incident.
It's going to take months to do a full thorough investigation.
Yeah, they're telling us don't jump to conclusions, but they jumped at minute one.
Right, right.
Obviously it's for political gain.
The common man knows that there's something suspicious because in any other thing that
benefits them, they'll say, no, take your time doing it.
The truth is the Democrats are panicking.
It's one of their leftists who we've got out there at Democrat rallies and everything else,
just like reality winner and all the rest of them joined ISIS.
Right.
It's super embarrassing.
Yeah, that's exactly what it is.
Like, I mean, they act like ISIS is not pursuing the same motives.
Like, it's not out of the question that they pursued him and that he'd been radicalized.
They've done it.
They've got Linda Sorcerer leading the women's marches when she openly wants Jihad and women
with burqas on them.
They've done it before.
This is a tactic.
This is an easy tactic for them because they don't have to pay or try to get people over
here and they may be suspicious.
They're going to get people that are inconspicuous and they're going to put them out there and
they're going to do crimes and we catch them.
But right now, they don't want us to know that because they don't want to be embarrassed
that this person was probably a leftist doing a heinous crime.
Brandon Tatum, you're going to be on for a full hour on the war room coming up at 3 o'clock.
I'm going to let you get some lunch.
You're doing a great job.
Hosting for the last hour.
Plus with us, the officer Tatum, Facebook.com, Tatumbug34, YouTube.com, slash BT Cruiser34.
Incredible videos, incredible information.
That's just his Twitter.
Check out his Facebook.
Last time I saw your Facebook was $100,000.
What is it now?
$108,000.
Well, you're doing awesome and what's crazy is you can have 70 million views on one video.
And just like us, the more folks don't follow us.
It's important on our Facebooks, on our Twitter, on our YouTube to actually follow us so you
get all the information.
Get some lunch.
Get ready for the war room coming up live and it's great to have you in town, sir.
Thank you.
Good to be here.
Thank you.
We're going to be right back with Robert Kiyosaki.
Straight ahead.
Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostaguard.
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance.
InfoWars Life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there,
but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts
that our experts recommend.
The Prostaguard formula does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants
that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3,
selenium, and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day and from our
research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order
to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostaguard on your side today exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvestrite freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvestrite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at InfoWarsstore.com
The organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well
to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 varts water.
Imrex Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Imrex Essentials.
Visit InfoWarsstore.com to learn more.
That's InfoWarsstore.com
For more information on the ingredients, use SINCE Aboriginal and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with a good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfoWarsstore.com.
That's InfoWarsstore.com.
Well, we're about to go live to our guest, Robert Giyosaki.
I'm your host, Alex Jones. He's with us for two segments.
Then I have the former high-level Republican member of Trump's campaign who has his sources in the White House.
These broken bits up before they have video of the shooter, Mr. Paddock, out in Vegas,
pledging allegiance to ISIS as ISIS said they have,
and that they're sitting on it as law enforcement has asked Trump not to release it as part of the investigation.
Well, that's what the hostage rescue team told me on Monday as there was ISIS connections and antifa connections.
Well, the left had been promising to launch this big revolution October 1st, culminating November 4th.
Maybe Robert Giyosaki can comment.
He's friends with Trump, co-authored two books with him.
The only guy that's done that, he's got a new book out.
We're going to tell you about it as well.
But obviously, this is the big issue right now that is front and center as a former Marine Corps,
Cobra, gunship pilot in Vietnam and looking at all the stuff that's going on.
I can tell you right now, you see law enforcement saying no, he was radicalized.
No, he had help.
Well, that's what we told everybody on Monday because we have the sources.
Why on earth would we let the left blame conservatives and libertarians for this when they've got their hands all over it?
Because that's the intel we've got and it's emerging.
They covered up San Bernardino for three, four days.
They've covered this up already five days.
That's quite a limb out there against the mainstream media.
But I mean, Robert, what do you make of them blaming Christians, conservatives, libertarians with no proof?
When we've got the kitchen sink and more with the Islamic connection, what do you make of this?
Well, Alex, you know, I give you credit because you're the bravest man in the world.
All of these years, you've been talking about fake news.
And I think it behooves every one of us to really seek out what real news is.
And I think that's why so many people tune into you.
And I'm just like you. I'm so disgusted because I don't even trust what I hear anymore or read or I don't trust the media.
And I think that's a deeper issue right now when we can't trust our leaders and our media with fake news.
So I really have no comment.
No, I mean, I agree. Who knows what the truth is?
And then they can't, they don't even know what happened.
But then if we question it, they say we're bad.
Right, correct.
And then, you know, again, they're blaming guns and all this stuff.
They want to take guns away.
It's just a red herring.
So you've got the new book out.
All your books are top bestsellers.
Why the rich are getting richer?
What is financial education?
Talking about solutions here.
I want to get into the book and we're going to do that in a moment.
But before we go any further, let me just ask you then richdad.com is the big website.
Again, a lot of these are just secrets that once you know them, you're like, wow, I didn't watch so simple.
Why didn't I know that before?
Reading your books has helped me so much being independent.
But looking at Trump, I mean, I don't want to involve myself in a butt kissing deal here, but it's true.
Four trillion in the stock market, hundreds of billions in new jobs, 1.6 million new jobs, 3.1 growth rate they say it never had.
And this is just getting rid of a few regulations, trying to deliver tax cuts, doing everything else.
He said, why are they so against him when everybody, including Goldman Sachs, has made record profits the last nine months under Trump?
What's their problem?
He's like shoveling success at them and they're mad.
Well, I think the biggest reason is because most people are not getting richer.
That's why my book is called Why the Rich are Getting Richer.
And the average person is not getting richer.
And so that's why the media is obviously a big part of that because they lie to us.
But people are getting poorer, not richer, no matter how high that stock market goes.
And that's the problem.
Explain it to me then.
I mean, I haven't read the new book yet.
I probably read the first book I read here as I was like 16 years old, literally.
So explain to me what I'm...
There's fake news in 1971 when Nixon took the dollar off the gold standard, the US dollar became fake money.
And I became, and I was in Vietnam in 72 when that happened.
And I started to realize that the US dollar was not designed to make us rich.
The US dollar, once it became fake, you know, a fiat currency, was intentionally designed to steal our wealth
and our lives.
So that's why if you read Rich Dad, Poor Dad, which came out 20 years ago, I said the rich don't work for money
and the rich avoid taxes because the more you work for money, actually the poorer you get.
Another example is I was at the bank yesterday doing desperately because I have so much cash coming in
to hide it in different banks.
And the bank teller said that she says, oh, we're going to give you 0.011%.
I went, what?
I mean, I've been so out of doing my own banking.
I said, how does somebody survive on 0.011 or 1.5% when inflation is running at 9%?
You know, and so Americans are getting poorer just because they have no financial education in schools.
And that's why Donald Trump and I became such good friends is what I teach people about money.
People are going to want to read the book.
They should read them all.
Thank you.
What was the first book you wrote?
Because I'm 44, and I know from memory.
I think I was in high school when I read your first book.
When did you first publish your book?
It was 1997.
Okay, then my memory's wrong. It must have been after that.
My dad was trying to get me to read books about investment and something else.
But I know, I mean, I read your book very early on.
It's just amazing these common sense secrets.
Well, it's that the why is there no financial education in school?
You know, and these teachers kind of teach.
And, you know, my poor dad was a school teacher.
He's a good man, but he doesn't know anything about money.
And he's teaching kids that the rich are evil.
And I'm going, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, you know.
Let me just say it again.
Our monetary system is fake money.
And the people that work for it, you know, with that book White Working Class and all that,
they're going to rip off the harder they work for money.
The more tax they pay, they put it in the bank and inflation eats it away.
And if they're in the stock market, they don't know how to handle it if the stock market comes down.
And that's all basic financial education.
So that's why President Trump and I have become good friends as advocates of financial education for everybody.
How did he fundamentally know the same secrets you knew?
I mean, how did you discover this stuff?
Well, we both had rich debts. His dad was rich and my rich, my rich dad was rich guy.
So in my latest book, Why the Rich are Getting Richer, I explain how debt and taxes make the rich richer.
In other words, it's ironic that, you know, in 1971, the dollar became debt, an IOU from the U.S. Treasury and the Fed.
And because it's debt, the more I use debt to buy assets, the less tax I pay.
So the reason the rich are getting richer is they use debt and pay less in taxes, legally.
Even before your book came out, my dad would explain, no, no, the rich are leveraging debt.
It didn't make sense to me when I was like 14 years old.
But that's what they're doing. But they teach us to go into debt, just to them for nothing, instead of using the debt to build stuff.
Yes. You should use debt. I mean, you have to have financial education to use debt because it's dangerous.
It looks like a gun.
Well, let's talk about it in a final segment.
Robert Kiyosaki, richdad.com, his new book is out by the rich are getting richer.
What is financial education?
Yeah, because exactly, you're not going to get it from a professor or some school teacher.
They're just, they're making $40,000 a year. They're not who you learn how to get successful from.
If you want to make everybody successful, that's what free markets about.
Whether it's your home or office, you owe it to yourself, your coworkers, your family, your children, to the best job you can to purify your air.
The elite are masters at poisoning our environment while themselves doing things that mitigate or avoid most toxic effects for themselves.
The general public doesn't.
The Alexa Pure Breeze would be a steal at $300, $400, $500.
One of these systems can keep 800 square feet incredibly clean.
This is a system I'm personally putting in throughout my house replacing older, more expensive filters that didn't do as good a job.
Find out why this system is so revolutionary today and then FullWarStore.com.
As most of you already know, I am a voracious consumer of news and information.
And in the last four or five years doing more and more research, I came across the fact that the elite establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors, in many cases, had much better nutrition than we do today.
And our ancient ancestors sought out the bones of the animals that they were hunting, killing, and then processing.
So I set out to develop Caveman, but to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken, but seven other superfood ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time.
Info Wars isn't just fighting the globalist.
We're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the complete media assault and winning because of your support.
Caveman is back in stock.
Absolutely love it, so please secure your Caveman today at infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free, triple-A-253-3139.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used, and we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium
Well I hate to say this you know the story of Rich Dad, Poor Dad.
My poor dad went to Stanford Northwestern University of Chicago.
Very good man and you would call him an elite but they have no financial education and they're more socialist than capitalist.
That's where it starts.
My concern is without knowing it the school system is complicit.
They're part of the big part of the program because they teach you to be poor.
Remember the US dollar after 1971 became fake money designed by the Fed and the Treasury and Wall Street to steal your life and your wealth from you.
So that's why when you save money you get nothing for it.
The first thing you do when you get your paycheck taxes are sucked out of it.
So why the rich are getting richer is about debt and taxes.
How the rich like President Trump and I get richer.
That's saying you should do it or that it's not without risk but you should be aware.
Sure but how was the conscious decision made in 1913 and then you know yet other agreements later, Bretton Woods and the 40s.
How do they decide oh let's dynamite a system that makes the general public wealthy and the elite even more wealthy.
No let's have a system where your poor and the elite use austerity to control you.
I mean isn't that what the Trump revolution is?
He's actually trying to deliver back a real level playing field because that makes the rich even richer.
I mean isn't that the essence of this?
But that's why he's under attack so much.
That's why you're under attack so much.
That's why I come under attack because we go after the academic elites who are really parasitic.
You know they really don't know what they're doing and they've led our country.
You know today we had Bernanke and we have Yellen, they're college professors running the most powerful central bank in history and they need a paycheck.
You know we need somebody who knows how to make money.
And they just, Trump has forced them to come 10 degrees not 180 towards what he wants and it's already got the economy roaring and they start going oh we'll never grow to, we don't want to overheat.
He means they don't get to turn you into renters, you become wealthy, they don't want that.
Right and the worst thing, I'm terrified right now is as you know all markets go up and if the market goes down President Trump will get the blame.
And it's those guys.
You see the problem isn't in the stock market, the problem is in our bond markets.
And the average person doesn't even know what a bond is because they don't have enough money.
And we're being ripped off by the very people we trust our money to.
Please elaborate on that as a self-made Marine Corps veteran of Vietnam, a guy that's made hundreds of millions of dollars, number one New York customer seller.
When you, you don't usually talk like that, when you say you're horrified, I'm listening.
Well all markets go up and all markets come down and it's like Lucy and the football is just going to pull the football away.
And they really don't want Trump to do what he does.
And you have Buffett up there, you know, I mean, look at what Buffett's doing.
He's taken his money from stocks and put it into a railroad.
Everybody should not listen to what Buffett is saying.
Watch what he does.
He said stay in stocks, stay in stocks while he's grabbing his money out as fast as he can.
Amen.
Watch what he does, not what he says.
So get your money out of stocks and get into real gold, you know, silver or gold and silver coins because there's now fake gold out there is fake everything.
But anyway, right now you better get real as quickly as possible and possibly start your own business because if the next crash comes, many people will lose their jobs.
Well, I mean, if the if the Robert Barron kleptocrat monopoly men would have gotten behind Trump's recovery, could it have been bulletproof?
I mean, I hope it just keeps going, but I agree.
They're openly fighting against it with interest rates hikes.
They can't go to Obamacare right now.
That's a wet blanket.
I mean, to watch them cheerlead and admit they want to plunge things to discredit Trump.
That is sickening.
Well, what's really sickening is that they're only doing it to get richer.
Yeah.
I mean, you know what I mean?
The problem started in 2008 when that market came down.
It could have fixed it then, but they were making too much money.
So why fix it?
So the biggest money printing in history went on and now they don't know how to stop what's about to come.
There's too much money.
Unfortunately, there's too much money in only a few people's hands.
And that's why I wrote why they're richer getting richer.
Everything is opposite of what they teach you in school.
Their desperate rearguard reaction is to start a race war so we don't notice that they stole our entire future
and know full well what they've done and given all the fiat money to themselves.
It'd be one thing if they gave it to everybody, you just have inflation, which we do have.
Instead, as you said, they've concentrated it in the hands of a few thousand jerks who are all fake liberal dirtbags
and then Trump wades in and you wade in and try to fix it and then they call you the devil.
Absolutely.
The same as you.
So remember, there's fake news.
There's fake money and there's fake assets.
And right now you gotta be very careful if you're in stocks, bonds, mutual funds or ETFs.
You gotta know what's real and what's not.
And your book breaks it down.
It's one thing to ride the bubble up to get out the right time,
but you folks never know when the thief comes the night.
Your book breaks it down, but in a minute and a half, what are you doing with your money?
Well, I'm in gold and real estate and I love debt
and I minimize my taxes because I use debt.
Remember, in 1971, money became debt.
It's fake money.
So when some people are saying get out of debt, I'm getting into debt
and that's why debt and taxes make the rich richer.
But there's a ratio to do it.
You don't, I mean, if you're going to get into debt, you want to get in big.
I'm a hundred percent debt on most of my investments,
but I've been trained to do it by my rich dad.
So Trump, you explain that.
I haven't read your book in 20 years, but you explained you had a rich dad and a poor dad.
Well, my poor dad was my father.
My father was a Stanford University, Chicago guy, but he knew nothing.
He's behind you right there in the photo.
That's my, that's my poor dad.
He was lieutenant governor of Hawaii.
Yeah.
He's a Republican.
He got crushed because he stood up to the most corrupt state government in the nation.
That's the poor dad.
Tell us about the rich dad.
Rich dad.
Well, let me just say that he stood up to, as a Republican, to the corrupt Democratic government of Hawaii and he lost his job.
And then my rich dad was my best friend's father who never went to school, but he owned most of Waikiki.
So I listened to him instead of my poor dad.
So that was smart of you.
I like, I like, I like listening to smart people like you.
I listened to you too.
All right, Robert Kiyosaki, the new book, why the rich are getting richer.
What is financial education?
Please join us again soon.
It was hard to get you on.
Thank you so much, sir.
Thanks.
Thanks for doing what you do, Alex.
I appreciate it.
Thank you, sir.
Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry.
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense.
Sixty years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums of their own, air raid sirens.
But in the 21st century, there are silent weapons for quiet war.
Pathogens added to the food and water, to the lining of plastics that destroy our vitality, turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death.
We personally counter this onslaught with Anthroplex.
Anthroplex is designed with known, organic, concentrated herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
Discover why Anthroplex has turned so many heads today.
It's time for us to take our bodies back into our own hands, and it starts at infowarslife.com with Anthroplex.
Looks, Jones, here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Dropped by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
From over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function, our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run of the public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health, and support the infowar.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
America is a dream and we have to believe in it and execute the open free society ideas to actually live in it.
George Soros calls his operation the open society. It's the opposite. He's trying to hijack the West, hijack the Renaissance, and kill it. We're fighting back.
I'm your host, Alex Jones. This is the Infowar. I'll be hosting with Mike Cernovich coming up into the fourth hour.
And we have some very important guests that are going to be joining us, including one in-studio survivor who I've known for years.
He was in Vegas, but he didn't want to be on camera. Just like when Drudge was here a few years ago, he's going to be over there in the dark with a mic.
He's going to tell you some of the things he saw coming up. Clearly, two shooters the first two minutes, just his video show, off the distance, not an echo.
Then huge shooting coming up.
But in this segment and the next, we are joined by James Broger, and he is a former state assistant director for President Trump.
He has, at JBRO, under score 70-76, he has released a lot of great info in the past with his White House connections.
And I've got to tell you right now, I don't just have the hostage rescue team.
We had Colonel Shaffer on earlier concurring with our analysis, and he's got CIA connections, Army connections.
I have other connections, and they say, yes, I just took responsibility. They've got him taking credit with this video.
That's Patek, and they want to suppress it. They're telling the President, well, it's financial security.
We don't want to trigger ISIS with codes or something.
That stay-behind networks, Obama people from our research, saying that so they don't get to blame for what they've done, show that Trump sits there while they blame gun owners, the Second Amendment veterans and patriots, which they've done.
But James Brower joins us to go over this. Paul's articles linked up on dredgereport.com, former Trump campaign official reports Las Vegas shooter made ISIS tape.
Now, remember, within hours of this happening, ISIS had responsibility, and the FBI said, no, they didn't do it.
But we don't know what happened, but they didn't do it. That's the biggest tell you'll ever see right there.
But again, we have these sources, but I wanted to specifically get James Brower to go into this for us.
And as much as he can tell us from his White House source, because my sources are in the military, they're in the FBI, they're in the CIA, and they say, absolutely.
They say this guy was connected to other attacks. Now you see it in the news today. The bombings in New York.
So so James, tell us you put out some big leaks before that have been accurate. Tell us what your sources in the White House are specifically telling you.
Yes, thanks for having me on again. Alex, I appreciate that.
That's right. You've been on before. Good to have you back.
Well, basically, the whole thing that's going on is, you know, like, that was sort of why I think this was sort of leaked, because of how, like, the response was so quick to shoot it down.
And, you know, usually, like you said, it's always, you always know that usually means that it was ISIS.
And the whole thing is that the tape, and I know if that's pretty much everybody wants the details on the tape, and, you know, I'll share, you know, everything, you know, that I, you know, know, obviously, and basically the tape is definitely like, you know, like a pledge,
not not like a pledge directly to ISIS, but it's more about, you know, the typical people must die for things to change.
And, you know, it's that typical ISIS mentality that they, they, you know, want to kill us. And, you know, it's definitely.
Sure. So he's telling his little, he's like Romeo to Juliet up in the, you know, up in the side of the building, how much he loves it, how he pledges himself, how he pledges things to blood.
And we can put the article and the documents that are in the article, guys, up on screen. This is totally clear. They're covering up an ISIS attack. Continue.
And, you know, and that's where a lot of, you know, obviously, leaks, leaks happen for reasons, whether it's, you know, to get, to get the word out there, because, you know, like I said, to Paul is, you know, I don't think they'll ever really release the tape,
mainly because they don't want to be wrong. They don't want to really spend telling Americans for the last eight years that they have control on this and, you know, that carousels don't exist in the country.
And, you know, it's becoming clear, clear and clear that these cells do exist. And, you know, that's sort of the response to why they haven't really, you know, jumped on it or really said much at all.
You know, that's where all sort of the leaks lead to. And there's a lot more details, too. You know, the whole second shooter thing, he had an accomplice and, you know, there's so much to the story.
And by the way, we were told that by law enforcement day one, and we just reported our source. The media flipped out and said, you're crazy. There's no such thing open and shut. They don't know what happened, but it wasn't Islamic.
It wasn't anti-file. There wasn't another shooter. But meanwhile, that's what I got from law enforcement. Now we have the video of people a mile away saying they saw cops shooting people in hotels, people jumping on them, piles of shell casings.
And then you can hear on the videos. And then 30 seconds later, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam. At man delay. I mean, this is open and shut.
Yeah, you know, and that's sort of, that's why I don't really understand why they didn't cover their tracks better. You know, I mean, with the woods.
Well, usually Islamic attacks are pretty ham-fisted, even if he was able to pull this off. I mean, specifics, though, because I have sources and I heard about this before I even saw you this morning.
That's why I thought, wow, I'm glad the words get down. There was this pledge. They'd said on Monday he'd pledged himself to them. But now I was getting this from good intel. That's why the police are so angry.
Why cover it up? I mean, Trump's got the power to have this released. Or I guess his agencies are an open rebellion against him. Why let them use this against America when it's Islamic attack?
This would absolutely validate everything we're saying. Cool. Look at the target. I mean, they attacked the country music facility.
I know, it's pretty, you would think that that would be enough to really be like, hey, you know, everything, this policy, this foreign policy, this travel ban, all these things we're trying to do, this is why, you know, and obviously he was an American, of course.
But, you know, if you start bringing over people that potentially are radical, you know, eventually that rubs off on other people and then you just have that.
ISIS has said that that was their mission. You know, was to get Westerners to help them in the attacks. So specifically, so you got reached out by your source.
You know, you've made a lot of other announcements that, you know, turn out to be tripping resources, people you met during the campaign. Did they say anything else that isn't in Paul's article, folks should know about?
Well, the whole covering up thing, the FBI, you know, they were unaware of, say, profiles under his alias, but they were given tips that he had some, you know, like with the ISIS name.
I can't even, I'm not even going to try to attempt to say it. I can never pronounce it right.
Sure, the police said he was known to them. And also, we don't have the valet entries. We first broke, Roger carried it. It was confirmed to be accurate that he was checked in two days before that he had a woman there visiting him, these hotel food receipts.
Now we have the m4wars.com story by Paul Watson. Valet entries proved paddock, checked in three days before date, given by authorities. We even have the photo of it by the FBI who put a tag on it.
So the FBI knew this and covered it up. What do you make of that?
No, I definitely think that they've, if they have their way of covering up everything, especially when they're, you know, not ahead of it, you look at the Sonara brothers, you know, they knew all about that.
And, you know, what did they really do? So, you know, there's that six month timeline with this, with the shooter where, you know, that's sort of a similar timeline along the lines of the brothers.
So it sort of all lines up, you know, it's that same radicalization period that, you know, a lot of these people go through.
And then after that, they come back or they initiate their, their plan and, you know, people end up dead because, you know, a lot of times I don't really think that they want to win this war on terror because, you know,
Exactly. That's the dirty side. Stay there. James Brower, J Bro underscore 7076 on Twitter. I want to come back and ask you what the next shoe to drop is and what other intel you've got from inside the White House.
But this is the same stuff I got Monday and Tuesday. And I got more intel by a high level intelligence source today that the crew is witnesses to as well.
But I'm just going to stop right there. And I'm not going to tell you what they told me because I'm not allowed to. But believe me, we're not blowing smoke here.
Everybody knows that is what we keep telling you keeps happening because we're crazy enough to tell you what's really going on. At least we try.
We don't always get it right. But we're, we're dead on about 95% of the time. And I wish I wouldn't. I wish I was wrong.
Before you on this hour, I didn't even plug last hour. I get so focused. That's why it's important for you when we do plug to really take into consideration the financially support the operation and get great products while you're doing it.
A win when you owe it to yourself to support the broadcast. We thank you for your support. We ask you to commit for stuff that's like high quality supplements and things to sign up for auto ship.
See an additional 10% off. But you don't forget to reorder the vitamin B12 or the brain force, new tropic or the high quality way or the super mill vitality or the X2 or the lung cleanse or any of the other great products.
A bunch of specials are about to end. The caveman bone broth's got to end soon. The new specials brain force 50% off great new tropic. Never done that before 50% off.
But I thought this would go for like a month or something. It's going to end in like a week. Is it selling out so quick? Is it so close to cost?
Brain force plus now 20% more 50% off at infowarslife.com or AAA 2533139. That's infowarslife.com. Stay with us. Hour number four straight ahead.
It's designed to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials. We are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com including non nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, deep free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint mouthwash,
unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant. Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life. Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials. Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new Emmerich's Essentials line of organic products. That's infowarstore.com.
Alex Jones
A lot of people say well that's a diversion from them covering up the ISIS video or them covering up. The point is that it happened.
I've had the former head of SEAL Team 6 on, I've interviewed Navy SEALs, I've interviewed Delta Force people, Green Berets, all of them privately and publicly.
There's multiple belt, fed guns and other guns going from other directions. But listen, when you're watching cabbie videos and it sounds like an old War movie or something them and they all are going boom boom boom boom boom boom.
I'm talking on top there in Mandalay. There's two shooters.
But going back to our guests, sir, other points that people should be made aware of, James
Brower, who has worked with the Trump campaign, leaked a lot of key intel in the past.
Other tidbits people should know.
You know, I definitely think people should keep an eye out on DACA.
That's definitely something that, you know, the whole graining of MSD and then family.
I think with the North Korea, I think that's sort of finally come to, uh, finally come
to its, uh, I think red line, if you want to call it.
Oh, yeah.
Trump's talking about the calm before the storm.
Wow.
I'm not bored.
What about you?
You know, I definitely think, uh, you know, at least those two, you know, that's the main
thing.
And of course, gotta look out for them cocks in, uh, the Republican party.
That's one thing.
You know, we got to really keep holding them, uh, accountable and when they, uh, stray off
the, the, the course, we gotta, you know, try to get them back on course and, you know,
if you stand behind our, uh, our bank, you've got your other scoops that McCain plans to
vote against tax reform.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
He's pretty much just going to vote on everything.
No.
With, um, what Trump's trying to do, he's still really, really upset with the whole POW
comment.
Um, he's also upset about, you know, why couldn't I win presidency and, you know, even heard
overheard multiple times really, you know, disgruntled that he could never win presidency.
But, you know, he'll be like the Crip Keeper, they'll roll his coffin in and like a little
arm will stick out and pull the vote lever.
McCain will just be a permanent member of the Senate.
That's probably going to be the case, to be honest, but, you know, yeah, there's definitely
a, you know, the whole tax reform thing, I don't, I don't really see a passing to be
honest.
I think we're going to see a lot of other tidbits from your White House source cause
I already have the same info now that it's out, Paul went with it and, but I had the
same stuff.
They got this video days ago.
People just said, don't go with it yet, uh, plus, well, I mean, the point is you went
with it.
Obviously this stuff's going on.
Any other, anything else they said, um, with, uh, with the whole video tape, yeah, pretty
big.
Yeah, there was, uh, the whole streaming thing.
It was streamed off, off, uh, overseas somewhere.
Um,
By the way, you didn't put that in the article and you hadn't said that and that's, that's
what I have for my sources, a multiple is that he was streaming it to like impress them.
It's totally sick.
Yeah.
And you know, that it was streamed and broadcast, which I assume was probably broadcasted to
some ISIS or, uh, sell or whatever.
Any word on them giving them millions like, Hey, look, you gave me the money I got to
gamble.
I'm a degenerate, crazy person.
And then he's so obsessive, compulsive.
He says, look, now I'm paying you.
I did what I said I'd do.
Um, I haven't heard that, but that, that was something that, you know, I didn't hear it
directly from my source, but I have heard that from other people.
Any other tidbits?
Anything else?
I mean, you could pretty much got it all there, Alex.
All right, James Brower will talk to you soon.
Thanks for the information.
Let's go.
Stories up on info wars.com.
And we have the valet checkout computer information screenshots that he was there three days before
the government said they've been caught red handed, a big, fat, stinging line.
Stay with us info wars.com news wars.com is the tip of the spear.
What exactly is political correctness and why is it being pushed on the American public?
Well, political correctness is simply a form of psychological manipulation the government
uses to control public opinion.
By controlling your opinions, the establishment gets you to not only agree with their agenda,
but to also ensure that your government created viewpoint also influences others in ripple
effect.
And this is how the power elite and the government stay in power.
They use psychological manipulation, they turn the public into obedient sheeple, and
over time we lose our ability to distinguish reality from deception.
But how does political correctness and other deliberate deceptions work?
Well, first, the establishment saturates mass media with their agenda they're trying
to push until it invades every aspect of popular culture and is accepted as truth, such as
global warming, for example.
Then the establishment suppresses any counter arguments through their agenda by calling
critics kooky, nutjobs, racists, or in the case of man made climate change, climate deniers.
You can learn more about this tyranny over the minds of men at info wars.com, PrismPlanet.tv,
and our YouTube channel, Resistance News.
This is Kit Daniels reporting.
Mike Cernovich hosting this hour, and we've got a special guest in studio, but he's in
the shadows over there, just like Drudge did two years ago.
He's been a friend of the show for four or five years, and I've met him before, he's
friends with some of the crew here.
He's a fellow Austinite, his business is pretty close to here, and I've got a shot
for TV viewers of where he was at the country music festival right up towards the right
hand side of the stage.
And so he is here with us right now to break down some of the things he witnessed, because
the reports are there's two shooters, and we already played video last night, and there's
countless videos of folks at other hotels saying there was shell casings, people shot
cops.
You can hear off the distance that up close, bam, bam, bam, at Mandalay Bay, so I'm just
going to call this fellow David, a friend of mine, David, please tell folks exactly
what you witnessed and what you saw.
Thanks for all you do.
We were on the right side of the stage, we were as close as you could get to the musicians
area in the VIP section, they call it the neon lounge, it was about a hundred yard section
where there was an elevated VIP, it was that white tent that I think you've seen in some
of the videos, and then closer to the musicians side were air conditioned toilets, porta-potties
that were on trailers, there's three on one side, one on the other, and then there was
a bar on one side, and then a barbecue place that was supposedly Texas barbecue right there
by the, right at this far as you could go forward to the stage in the VIP area.
So it's a barbecue place, you're in the neon lounge, you're right here in the VIP area.
Yeah, we're in the lower section where the bathrooms were up next to the musicians trailer,
so there's flush with the stage comes out a cyclone fence that, the musicians trailers
that went back towards the strip, they were lined up against that fence.
We were as close as you can get in the general admission section, and it's just packed wall-to-wall
people from us to the stage, as far as you can see all around there.
We're watched, you know, it's halfway through Jason Aldean's show, and you hear a pop-up-up-up,
and it's in the one that's in the distance, I believe, and somebody says, oh, there's
fireworks, and I turn around, and I'm looking, and we're as close as you can get to the corner
of Mandalay Bay Road in Flamingo, so we're as close as you can get to where the eventual
shooter was from.
But in the beginning, you hear that pop-up-up, and it's in the distance, and I gotta admit
I've never heard gunfire coming at me, I shoot a lot of guns, we have ARs, we have all kinds
of guns, and my family, we shoot, and so I know what the guns sound like going away,
but coming at you, it's a whole different world, but the first rounds were not coming
at us, they were going in different directions, and I assume that when they were shooting,
somebody was shooting over at the tanks at some point, and that was probably in the beginning
trying to blow those up as they've come out and said, but my first reaction when I looked
back was, okay, it stopped, there's nothing there, that was probably just some anomaly.
I look back, and Aldean plays for another 10 seconds, and then I see a spark come off
the right screen, where we were as a weird angle, you couldn't always see the stage,
so we're kinda looking at the screen, and I see a spark come off the top of the screen,
and the next round, a volley comes through, and it's a round of over 40, 50 rounds, it's
probably close to 100 rounds, now as I listen to some of the sound, I mean some of the replays
from people, but at the time, you're just not cognizant of it, you're just like, wait,
that's real, and my wife and our friends are, we're up against the gate, the metal divider,
which is one of the dividers they ended up using for to carry people out, we're up against
that divider, we turn around, I turn around, I see somebody duck behind one of the porta-potties,
and they're about 12 foot tall on top of those trailers, and I'm still here in sounds, and
my first reaction is, there's a drug shootout, a gang shootout at the Mandalay Bay, because
it sounds, there's overlapping fire, and when people say there was multiple shooters, it
sounded like multiple shooters, granted there's echoes going off of a 45 degree angle off the
Luxor, and off the different, you know, angles of the, of Mandalay Bay.
Sure, but I mean, I've had the former head of SEAL Team 6, I've had them all on, they
hear it, it's not echoes, and you've got the cab videos and others where it's, barely,
there are bullets coming out of there, but like you and others have said, you hear it
all in the first two minutes, right, there's only one shooter after that, is that correct?
Yeah, after the first two or three minutes, there's only one shooter, and it's coming
over our head into the area behind us, we're on that right side, because you're up under
the stage, and he's got to shoot over you.
No, we're, we're, we're on the right side, closest to Mandalay Bay.
Sure, right here, so you're open.
The people that were on the left-hand side of the stage, looking at the stage on the
left-hand side, those are the ones who stayed longer, and stayed down from what I've seen
in the videos, but the people behind us, they're the ones.
So you were here over on the right, and it's shooting down towards you this way.
Yeah, we're the closest you can get to his field of fire.
And then you're, and then other folks are over here.
Yeah.
So most of the dead were in here?
Most of the dead were in that right side section, so there was a divider coming out
of the middle of the stage, there's a, oh, you know, catwalk for the musicians to run
out through the middle, and then all of the power chords that ran to the sound guys and
the light guys, they were probably 50 yards out into the middle of the field, and it was
divided right side, left side.
Well, we've played the video a lot, we've got Mike Cernovich co-hosting here, but stay
with us some more.
He's got a lot of other issues to cover, and Paul Watson, because we're not a cult here,
he doesn't disagree with me, he just says multiple shooters is a distraction from the
whole ISIS narrative.
So what I'm saying is, I've seen the videos where there's shots 45 seconds apart, clearly
different firearms, top experts have seen this, Mike Cernovich, what do you think about this
whole situation?
Yeah, I'm with, I know what you're doing, and what you're doing is you always analyze
issues from every perspective.
The thing now though is you are like the Yankees, you have hosted the president of the United
States of America.
So even when investigating stories, you have to be very, very careful now, because you
are at the level of the Washington Post of the New York Times, and everybody's looking
to take you out of context and kind of catch you slipping, and that's what they're going
to try to do with the, because we know that you're not saying there's a second shooter.
We know you're just analyzing it and asking questions, but we have to be careful and not
let the enemy media catch us off guard or off guard.
Sure, sure.
Can you overall make though, just of this whole situation, clearly when they come out
day one and say, no Islamic connection, when they say they don't know what happened, but
no Islamic connection, and he acted alone, then the Sheriff's Department contradicts
all that, Cernovich, what are your sources saying?
Well, the New York Times, the reporter for the New York Times had even said that you
should not dismiss the ISIS connection, actually.
A very well-respected reporter on terrorism did a lengthy Twitter essay on why you can't
just dismiss the ISIS.
Yeah, that's because they know what's coming.
So I think that anybody who's not looking into the ISIS connection, remember, ISIS doesn't
take credits for attacks for any old random attack.
They only take credit for attacks that they've actually done and that they've been responsible
for.
So when people are dismissing the ISIS angle right away, I'm thinking, no, no, no, what
are you doing?
But here's what I want to know, Alex.
Why is it, if I'm with Las Vegas at a blackjack table and I shake your hand and you give
me a nickel, that's caught on camera.
So why don't we have any footage of people helping him load the guns, the weapons, the
people who came and saw it?
Exactly.
If they know you're counting cards at a blackjack table, how on earth do they not know 23 guns,
thousands around ammo?
That really is the big issue.
Yeah, four, I think now it's up to 40 guns, 23 long rifles.
If you do the math, he had over 300 pounds of equipment, weapons, firearms and everything.
So I want to know why is Mandalay Bay not released that footage?
And it turns out they are a bunch of SJWs hooked in with the Islamists.
Well if it were, that's the issue is if there were an Islamic terrorist connection that
would be buried by the Mandalay Bay, they wouldn't want that to get out there.
Otherwise, you just release the footage, right?
The footage...
We're going to break.
Stay there.
Mike Cernovich, Ed Cernovich on Twitter.
Going to break this in 30 seconds, David, one of the survivors, you and your wife.
What do you think of this first approximation?
You know, there definitely were multiple shooters.
There had to be.
There's no way that you had the overlapping shooting.
I don't know about everything else that's come out.
But you know, what we heard and what we saw, that first two or three minutes.
A person knows an echo, echo, echo, echo, re-cola, re-cola, uh, you know, uh, no, clearly
it's...
I mean, you can hear, you can hear a heavier belt gun, you hear some other guns that are
firing 30 round mags.
That's what I hear.
And that's what the best soldiers in the world tell me.
But I get what Cernovich is saying, that becomes a distraction of the overall ISIS situation.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the Info War, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWarshot.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship, because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years, because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWarshot.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new auto ship feature at InfoWarslife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at InfoWarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Remember the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
And let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire
meals.
Woo!
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at InfowarsStore.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA, it's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely
associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the infowar.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this
country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you
can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together.
We're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield and InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Wow.
You know, I got to say as we send out this SOS, Alex Jones here back live, I'm sitting
here with David who I've known for five years and he's a nice, smart entrepreneur, Patriot
here in Austin and he's not giving us full name or getting out there in the light because
he didn't want any repercussions.
But as conservatives or patriots, we don't make a big deal out of things, but he literally
was in the main fire area, people getting shot all around him with his wife and he was
talking about just the sound of those bullets coming right by his head.
Just hear him, you feel it come by, there's like a wave in front of it, the difference
between seeing people with shootouts on television or movies and actually being in the way he's
just calm.
It's not like Dr. Phil or Oprah, he's crying and we're going to him in his lip shagging,
he's just a Patriot in here telling you what went on.
But regardless, this appears to be an ISIS attack and that's what our sources are telling
us, that's what Mike Cernovich is saying, investigations leading towards.
We know the FBI covered it up.
We know now it's coming out, it's on infowars.com, that we have him checked in days before, we
have the valet, we have the parking stubs, we have the food being bought.
That's all confirmed now.
So we've got him day one saying it's not Islamic.
We've got him day one saying that he checked in a wrong day.
There's clearly a cover up here, Mike Cernovich.
What do you think's behind this and why would they want to cover up if it is indeed an ISIS
attack is the target, the motive, the history, the connections, ISIS taking credit, I mean
this is hiding in Blaineview.
The left's already busy blaming conservatives, liberals, gun owners, America, but then we're
not supposed to speculate when the facts are pretty clear.
Oh, well let me segue too into a horrific story from the New Republic that I sent, you
know, Nico and the great crew.
The New Republic is claiming that Gavin McKinnis and I celebrated the Las Vegas shooting.
This is, I sent him the screencap, the link and everything.
Let's put it on screen, but I mean that's a fiction publication, when that publication
is not calling for overthrowing the president, I guess they're putting this stuff out.
Yeah, and that's how desperate the media is.
What was the name of the headline?
I'll put it on, I'll get them to search it or they missed it.
Okay, they say, Alt Light celebrating, Alt Light celebrating Las Vegas shooting is the
headline.
But that's the CBS vice president and all the Hollywood stars.
That's not us.
Yeah.
Yeah, why the Alt Light celebrated the Las Vegas massacre.
When I saw this, Alex, you know, I'm used to being lied about repeatedly and very rarely
do I read something that makes my stomach churn where I think, how could they do this?
Like to show that any of us would celebrate this or to claim that Gavin McKinnis supports
this.
This is the New Republic.
That used to be the publication for Bill Clinton.
Remember that?
That was the official publication that Bill Clinton would read on Air Force One was the
New Republic.
Celebrate.
And where's the actual quote?
I'm reading it.
I don't see you guys saying that.
Well, no, the idea that we would is, of course, appalling.
But that is how desperate they are to distract from Islamic terrorism, that now they're just
outright fabricating, oh, well, they celebrated, first of all, the Alt Light is a term created
by neo-Nazis.
Is there anybody who actually uses the term Alt Light?
You've always been critical.
You've never been said you're part of it and they say you are.
That's a hell of a return.
You're going to come back and host the rest of the show in a moment.
I want to get your full breakdown on this, Mike Sarnovich, but first off, just getting
back to the loose ends.
We have videos of people at other facilities saying the cops are there, bullets, people
shot.
I think this was a much larger attack.
That's what I've got for my sources that are very, very high level.
This is going to come out.
What is the left going to do when it begins to come out?
I believe if it comes out as Islamic terror, David, what do you think?
If it is, I mean, it's incredible if it comes out that it is and they're holding that back.
That's crazy.
I mean, it's real quick.
One thing I just want to say is had that not been the crowd it was, there would have
been far more deaths.
We really have to thank God that the people that were there, I'd say 20% or 30% of them
were former active duty or veterans that were in there and then you had a ton of first responders
in there.
They knew how to react in that situation.
We didn't.
You would have seen a lot more deaths in that scenario if that wasn't the crowd that was
there.
What type of things did you see, just the way they were rendering aid, the way they
went to cover?
A lot of folks started running towards the building.
We were there with friends who were first responders.
We went and took cover underneath that, the porta potty, the toilet trailer and the bullets
are coming over.
It went on for seven minutes and our friends said, look, people are going under the stage
or not the stage, but the bleachers of the neon lounge, the VIP lounge area.
My wife and I ran across there while they were still shooting and made our way down
that direction.
Our friends were going to follow us.
They didn't.
They stayed.
They took people out afterwards, he told us, and they used the fencing to carry people
out.
The first responders, the police on the ground, everybody was pretty amazing on how they did.
These are the people really doing this hard work, meanwhile, the NFL takes a knee during
the time to honor them.
Yeah, I mean, it's a shame.
You survived this with your family.
Any other pieces of info you'd like to impart to folks?
I've known you for a while.
People have told me five years when I first met you and you've done some work for us.
You've done some nice things for the operation.
Just have the goodness of your heart.
If I'd have thought we'd be having a discussion, are you surviving a mass terror attack?
It's Twilight Zone.
Yeah, it is.
I mean, it was surreal when it happened and until you have a gun fired at you, you don't
know how you respond and you don't know what it is.
People were screaming and crying and everything and just pray for all the victims, pray for
the families of the victims, those people and donate to the victims.
The funds that are out there, I think there's a GoFundMe site that...
I noticed none of them are out there saying, take somebody else's rights out of this.
They're just such good people.
They are.
We've got the war room coming up and if you've got more to say, I'd love to have them.
I have one more thing real quick.
I would like to say is one of the officers who were there were doing their best with
what they had.
Most of those guys were only carrying sidearms and they're trying to defend people against
somebody using long arms.
Even if you had a rifle, I don't know if I'd have been shooting at the hotel because I
might miss and shoot somebody else.
No.
I mean, what do you do when you're 600 yards away, even if you see the muzzle flash?
I'm a good shot.
I can shoot bulls out at 400 yards, but I mean, I don't think I could make that shot
at 600 yards.
We were at that closest corner where if you saw the video where the policemen who were
hunched down behind that mason wall, the block wall, we were 30 yards behind them.
At that point, I think you're about 250 to that window and 250 yards, but nobody had
a long gun over there.
The long guns were on the backside and the trucks on the backside of the venue.
And the other thing is MGM owns that ground underneath that concert and MGM owns Mandalay
Bay too, right?
And there's all the weird Islamic connections.
So yeah, it's a little too strange.
Well, this is powerful.
So we've got another three hour show coming up.
If we could, while you're here and you're going to run your businesses, if you want
to get with one of the folks and have them just audio record any other points you'd
like to make.
We'd like to air it on the war room.
Thank you so much, David.
We're glad you survived.
Thank God.
All right.
I'm going to turn this over to Mike Cernovich at Cernovich on Twitter, a great investigative
journalist, filmmaker in his own right.
Thanks for letting me crowd it on you today.
It's hard to get you to host the show.
You're a busy guy, but it's good to have you here.
So tell us what's coming up in the next 30 minutes when you host.
Well, very, very, very important for people to know that Alex Jones was right in the Hollywood
casting couch, the sex trafficking, the abuse of women, the sexual predators, Harvey Weinstein.
Nobody was more connected to Democrats than Harvey Weinstein.
So before you go, I have a quick question for you.
Why did Barack Obama, who took millions of dollars from Harvey Weinstein, send his
own daughter to interview with Weinstein knowing Weinstein is a sexual predator?
I don't think those daughters are really his daughters from people we know they're just
cut out beards.
The amount against Obama that he's gay, it's just that him and his whole fake relationship
is a fiction.
What do you think?
I'm very disturbed that he would send his own daughter in to interview with Harvey Weinstein,
who everybody knew, but the media wouldn't cover it because they were afraid of...
Hold on right there.
About Cernovich is taking over.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion.
Visit InforwardsLife.com to secure your chemistry.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion Drink Mix at InforwardsLife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of InforwardsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality, and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest-secured, you're fighting the tip
of the spear in the Info War at InforwardsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Refresh your breath with Immerses Essentials Organic Mouthwash.
Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing
effect while adding a pleasant, refreshing taste.
Immerses Essentials Mouthwash is non-GMO, certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals,
or other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated, containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Immerses Essentials Mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Immerses Essentials.
Visit infowarstore.com to learn more.
That's infowarstore.com.
As most of you already know, I am a voracious consumer of news and information, and in the
last four or five years doing more and more research, I came across the fact that the
elite establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors, in many cases,
had much better nutrition than we do today, and our ancient ancestors sought out the bones
of the animals that they were hunting, killing, and then processing, and so I set out to develop
Caveman, but to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken, but seven other superfood
ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time.
Infowars isn't just fighting the globalist, we're getting results, and we're expanding
in the face of the complete media assault and winning because of your support.
Caveman is back in stock, people absolutely love it, so please secure your Caveman today
at infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free, triple A-253-3139.
It's not just our water we need to filter, it's not just our food that needs to be cleaned,
it's the air we're breathing, especially for our children.
The artificial particulates, the chemicals, is absolutely weighing down our immune systems.
The same team based right here in America that brought you the Alexa Pure Groundbreaking
Water Filtration Systems have now developed Alexa Pure Breeze, whether it's your home
or office, you owe it to yourself, your co-workers, your family, your children, to the best job
you can to purify your air.
The elite are masters at poisoning our environment, while themselves doing things that mitigate
or avoid most of the toxic effects for themselves.
The general public doesn't.
The Alexa Pure Breeze will be a steal at $300 for $500.
One of these systems can keep 800 square feet incredibly clean.
This is a system I'm personally putting in throughout my house, replacing older, more
expensive filters that didn't do as good a job.
Find out why this system is so revolutionary today, and then fullwarstore.com.
That is another great Cernovich production at Cernovich on Twitter.
Everything he does is 5 to 10 million views.
Amazing to see the common sense of that.
Will they disavow the sexual predator when the Clintons have their own house of skeletons?
We have to demand that they disavow.
That's what I said earlier before, the final segment is you have been on the forefront
of women's rights for decades by taking on the real predators.
The real predators like Harvey Weinstein, John Travolta had claimed that he as a young
boy was forced to filate Hollywood directors and stuff like that.
Everybody in the media and the Democrat party were complicit in part of a conspiracy of
silence to protect Harvey Weinstein.
This shows once again that Alex Jones is right, but they're not going to give you the credit
that you deserve.
Why can't they just say Alex Jones is right about the Hollywood people?
Why won't they just say that?
Is the house of skeletons, the house of pedophilia, the house of rape beginning to collapse?
Why is this coming out now?
The door has been opened and I think the pedophile stuff is going to come out.
I was actually approached by a world famous childhood actor who wanted to come forward
with the story and I was going to go forward and break the story, but then he told me he
can't do it anymore and I go, why, he goes, you don't understand, they're going to come
for everybody's family and he just kind of disappeared.
I've talked to some of those same famous names and it's because the phones are tapped
and in fact I don't even know.
It's quite a few folks.
Yeah, and if you read that article, the cut, there's a line in there that says that he
beat up a woman, a young girl, he beat her up.
Photographers were all there taking his pictures, but nobody would come forward because, and
I quote, he had too many journalists on staff.
I was about to say, but what about Meryl Streep getting up when they were trying to extradite
Roman Polanski for kidnapping and raping an 11-year-old girl, Aina Lee, until she was
bleeding everywhere?
I don't want to be gross.
I'm not into that.
The folks need to know, I've got daughters.
Everybody's got daughters.
You've got a daughter.
Makes me want to kill people.
I'm not saying I am, but these are like old pig-like men raping little girls and they're
not even doing it, you know, it's hurting them even worse.
It's like the worst thing you could do.
And then Meryl Streep gets up at the Oscars and praises him.
It's like, what the hell's wrong with these people?
Meryl Streep also called Harvey Weinstein a god.
She goes, I would like to thank god.
Oh, I mean, Harvey Weinstein.
So there's no doubt now that Meryl Streep is part of a conspiracy of sexual predators
and they can-
There's no doubt.
I mean, who knows?
They use women and children as procurers.
Is she like what they drive by on the ice cream truck, like, look, I've got a puppy.
I've got ice cream.
Yeah.
That's what I told them.
Harvey Weinstein-
I mean, I mean, do people like Meryl Streep, because we know reportedly the women who lured
the 13-year-old in for Polanski to go in her, you know, rape her in the rear end, I mean,
who knows?
Yeah.
Well, Jeffrey Epstein actually had a woman, just Elaine Maxwell, who is allegedly his pedophile
madam.
And that's what she would do.
She would say, oh, I'm a model recruiter.
So I can imagine that Meryl Streep-
So just like Renfield recruited for Dracula, it's women and young people recruiting for
these predators.
Right.
And Meryl Streep, and again, that's why they all hate Trump because, and that's why they
hate General Flynn, because they were investigating the pedophiles and the pedophilia.
That's the real big story nobody wants to talk about, is the real reason they went after
General Mike Flynn is because he was really focusing on pedophilia and he had found, he
had happened upon the story accidentally, and that's why Deep State freaked out.
And of course, hopefully this comes out if, you know, unfortunately General Flynn can't
talk to anybody because lawyers advice and everything.
But there's more of this, and that's the whole point is, there's a reason the media keeps
freaking out about us and trying to frame us for a story we had nothing to do with.
And by the way, not to make it about us, but I've got all these articles saying we're
fake news, even though we didn't say there weren't shooters there and myself and others.
And then they say ban us.
And then Google's now banning stuff, some of our stuff as well, but then claiming that
I said no one was shot when I've been saying day one, it was real.
I mean, this is, like you said, it's next level lying, Mike.
Yeah, I actually had that.
I'm going to be on HBO tonight.
They're doing a big special on me.
And they came out of my own house and lied about things that I had written and kept trying
to check, made me and kept, that's what they try to do.
But the way I look at it is, if HBO wants to spend $100,000 to put my handsome face
on television, then I'm not going to get it.
Well, they don't get it.
It's just like Megyn Kelly.
They made me look like an idiot and edited it, but people didn't care just because they
hate them already.
Even though I look terrible because what they did, everybody still loved me because by the
system attacking me, they make us the hero.
They don't, they find that they're so narcissistic, Sernovich, they don't get how much they're
hated.
Yeah, they don't understand that Conor McGregor, even though he lost the fight, it's not about
if you win or lose.
It is about what kind of people in America will stand up on behalf of the people who've
been silenced and bullied.
And it's about who will get in the arena.
Yeah, exactly.
So they can come in and try to hit you and dig stuff up and take you out of context.
All people know is that guy, that guy right there is willing to stand up against the globalist,
stand up against the pedophiles, stand up against the Hollywood people.
I mean, the whole thing about Harvey Weinstein, I would have broken that story any day of
the week, but everybody else in media covered it up for decades.
I'm going to ask you again, why is it breaking now?
Well, you know, there's a good question about maybe there were other things he was worried
about.
So Harvey Weinstein before the show.
Yeah.
So they detonated just like Red Adair would blow up an oil well with dynamite, so it
quit burning.
You've got to go ahead and give him a story up front to make it about that and not the
other stuff.
Yeah.
So he didn't just like oysters.
He didn't just like oysters.
He also likes snails.
Yeah, that's exactly the issue was that I think what was going to surface are things
much more nefarious.
So because of that, he just gave them the story and said, okay, I'll let you call me
a sexual harasser.
I'll let you say that I tried to get 19 year old women to watch me shower, but let's not
talk about anything else that there might be underneath there.
And then, of course, the media, which covered up for him for decades as part of a conspiracy
of silence said, okay, so you'll give us this one story, but we just can't talk about the
other stuff, which we don't want to talk about anyway, because it'll hurt Democrats.
Okay, well, we'll run this one story and let me ask you this because I'm sitting here
shifting gears.
I'm here taking over at the end.
Hopefully you'll come on the war.
I know you're a busy guy, but we've got, I've got the Las Vegas, Nevada country music
fest in my hand, Route 91, I got this from a friend of mine, a guy that I've known for
four and a half, five years, a great patriot in the community.
He and his wife barely survived the attack.
They went with cops to the event who didn't even hide.
We're like, I'm going to make them heroes.
It's true there was dragging people, bleeding, you know, to save you as they're getting shot
at.
That's just the training.
Great people.
And I'm sitting here looking at this.
This, this, this really happened.
This really unfolded.
And why have Trump has the intel that it's an ISIS attack?
Don't he release it?
Well, I, I know they're telling me it's an investigation, sir.
And there's coded messages, but I mean, listen, Mike, I really got this from the hostage rescue
team.
They really, these are real people.
This really happened.
So I think this is going to come out.
What are they going to do when it comes out or can they spend it?
Well, the same way they, they call for hood shooting work workplace violence, right?
Remember that a major for almost four years.
They said it wasn't Islamic.
Yeah.
So Islamic terrorists shot up a bunch of people on army-based murder people.
Hitler killing, you know, millions of people.
That was workplace violence too, right?
Well, you know, there were their moderate Nazis, you know, you must not let your hatred
of Hitler allow you to tarnish the moderate Nazis out there.
Of course, who are peaceful, loving, right?
Let's be clear.
You're, you're against, you're being sarcastic.
They'll say you're saying that we're saying like radical Islam, we need to criticize the
whole thing.
Right.
Right.
Right.
And they're like, Oh, you know, but people make slide of Nazis.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
They fired Kurt Schilling for making a meme about who actually has killed more people
that actually radical Islamic terror and Jihad has killed more people.
And then he gets fired from ESPN.
But of course, if you go on ESPN and you say white people deserve me murdered and we should
murder all white people, well, then you're okay.
And ESPN will keep you.
And if you support Martin Luther King and say that's racist, they say you're a white
supremacist.
Yeah, exactly.
People are waking up.
So that's the whole point.
All right, Mike, I'm going to hear you in the final segment straight ahead.
Mike Sernovich, hopefully he'll be on the war room today as well.
Coming up in T minus 18 minutes, I'm Alex Jones.
This is the info or spread those articles.
It was Thomas Jefferson who once said that our country is now taking so steady, of course,
as to show by what road it will pass to destruction to wit by consolidation of power first and
then corruption.
It's necessary consequence.
Jefferson was warning us about the global elite, the 1% of the 1% consolidating the
world's wealth and subverting the people's voice in government.
Unfortunately, we didn't heed his advice.
We now live in a neo feudalistic society in which we're treated as indentured servants
who only exist to serve the needs of the establishment.
Political office no longer represents the voice of the people, but rather the initiation
process politicians go through to gain acceptance into the aristocracy.
Simply put, we the people are responsible for civilization and culture, yet we're suppressed
by tiny elite who have organized into criminal gangs that operate governments around the
world.
We falsely believe that everything is simply black and white, one extreme against the other,
conservative versus liberal, but things will change once more of us realize this truth.
As Thomas Jefferson also said, enlighten the people generally, and tyranny and oppressions
of the body and mind will vanish like evil spirits at the dawn of day.
This is Kit Daniels with infowars.com.
Protect Your Skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body.
This natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need
sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used, and
we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products
to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
At infowarslife.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high-quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure
deep earth iodine crystals, this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Remember the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We now have proof the media has covered up Harvey Weinstein's acts.
This isn't only about Hollywood.
He has been a major backer of Hillary Clinton, major backer of Barack Obama, major backer
of Charles Schumer, major backer of the Democrats, according to an article in The Cut.
He assaulted a young female journalist, threw her on the ground, smashed her head in, photographers
from the New York Times took the picture and they never ran it.
Photographers from every mainstream outlet in the world took the photographs and they
never ran it because they have to protect the Hollywood predators, the Hollywood sexual
predators at all costs.
So even though Weinstein has been caught now, caught being a sexual predator, all you're
going to do is take a look at the guy and nobody would ever let their child around him.
And yet Barack Obama sent his young daughter to intern for Weinstein.
Go ahead and explain that to me how that works.
What kind of payback is that for the millions of dollars that I don't even want to think
about the implications of that because it's too horrific as a father of a daughter.
But Weinstein, rather than owning it and taking responsibility, he is now blaming a vast right-wing
conspiracy.
So let's check out the video where he is freaking out.
I'm not rich like you guys.
You notice he says, you've always been good to me.
That right there is the buried lead, Harvey Weinstein is saying, you've always been good
to me.
In other words, you have always covered up the sexual predator offenses.
You've always covered up the cast and cast in Hollywood.
You've always tried to prevent anybody from investigating pedophilia in Hollywood to the
child molesters.
There was, of course, an actor to a glee caught with 40,000.
Yeah, Harvey Weinstein said he could spend or suppress anything because there were so
many journalists on his payroll.
And that article is horrific because so-called reporters from the New York Times and the
Washington Post were there and they took pictures and never ran it.
So now you know why they call us fake news.
Now you know why they call Infowars fake news and Alex fake news and Cernovich fake news.
They don't want us looking into this stuff.
They want to control the narrative and they are willing to cover up sexual predators, casting
couch practices, the sacrifices that some people claim that they do.
John Travolta claimed that he was forced to give a fallacio again to when he was underage.
You don't have to look very hard, but that's what they do.
And then, of course, there was a Hollywood actor, Glee, big show, 40,000 child pornography
images.
He was such a pedophile that he carried them around in a thumb drive.
There were four thousand, he couldn't be away from, and this, by the way, because a lot
of people go child pornography, we're not talking about a 17-year-old, 364-day-old girl
who looks maybe 20.
Year 10, he had images of six-year-olds in sexual positions, six-year-old children, sexual
acts, and he was such a legit, he would carry it on a thumb drive.
Was he sharing that thumb drive with other people in Hollywood?
Were they swapping images around?
Were they trading pornographic images, child pornography, like baseball cards?
Nobody in media wants to ask this, they'll go, oh, isolated incident.
How many more isolated incidents do we need?
Let's talk again about Jacob Short, yeah, the Glee star, Mark Sailing, child pornography.
Why is this not a bigger story?
Why is the media afraid of us asking questions about pedophilia and pedophiles in Hollywood?
They're terrified of it, right?
They're terrified of it.
The question is, why?
Why don't they want us to ask?
Well, Harvey Weinstein said, you've always been good to me to the media.
I love you guys, you've always been good to me.
Thank you for covering up for me for decades.
What else are they covering up?
And then, of course, you've got to remember Anthony Whitewiener going to prison now for
21 months, child pornography.
The mayor of Seattle accused of multiple cases of pedophilia.
There's so many, I was actually talking to my journalist crew at service.com.
And I go, guys, I can't keep track of all, we have to do like a list of all the Democrats
who have been caught up.
We got Jacob Schwartz, who was an honored guest on CNN.
You can find his picture with Brooke.
There's a news anchor, Brooke something or other, I forget her name.
That's the thing, his people are so irrelevant to me.
I don't even know their names or how to say it.
But Brooke, who's a CNN anchor, was hanging out partying with Jacob Schwartz, who was
caught with child pornography.
At least 11 mayors accused of child sex related crimes since 2016.
This is an epidemic.
Everywhere you look, Dennis Hastert, by the way, there are Republicans doing it too.
That's the whole reason Republicans in Congress hate info wars and hate everyone listening
as much as the Democrats do.
So this is not a partisan issue, by the way.
This is a very, Democrats do seem to get caught more than Republicans, but there's more than
enough of this in the Republican world to go around.
So my question is, why would Congress not hold hearings into pedophilia in Hollywood?
Why not?
It's a federal crime, child molestation, child pornography.
These are all federal crimes.
So why will they not hold investigations into pedophiles in Hollywood?
Well, because just like Bill Clinton would travel with Jeffrey Epstein on the Lolita Express
and have sex with underage girls, the people in the House of Representatives, the people
in the Senate, Republicans and Democrats, they're going on yacht parties with Harvey
Weinstein and other Hollywood people, and they are partying, and they are doing things
that most people couldn't even imagine doing.
So Congress will never see a vice-writer accused of raping multiple women.
You can't even keep track, by the way.
That's why people go, why do you guys get so fired up?
Because we can't even keep track of all this stuff.
You have a vice-writer, which is a social justice magazine, accused of raping multiple
women.
Jacob Schwartz, who partied with Robbie Mooc, who was Hillary Clinton's campaign person,
whatever her name is, he was a guest on Chris Cuomo's show.
So why is Chris Cuomo, who said that 13-year-old girls should get used to looking at penises?
This is all proven.
A lot of times people, we're not even in the realm of speculation right now.
We're not even the realm of, well, imagine or who knows what's going on.
Chris Cuomo said on Twitter, this is how degenerate these people are.
They are so degenerate that it doesn't even occur to them, hey, don't say this in public.
If you think that 12-year-old girls should look at penises, you need to keep that to
yourself, bro.
That's not the kind of, like, that's real sick.
There's nobody in the CNN room who'll be like, hey, bro, just like when Alex and I, when
we talk, Alex, you go, oh, just make sure people know you're being sarcastic.
Or I'll say, hey, Alex, make sure people know that you're only asking questions, you're
not making a statement, right?
Because we know how that could look to the outside world and how that could be used,
right?
So you have people, we don't live in a thought bubble.
Now at CNN, they live in such a degenerate pedophile thought bubble that Chris Cuomo
has no problem in public saying, hey, if you don't want your 12-year-old daughter to see
penises, that's your problem, buddy.
You're the bigot.
You're the bad.
You're the, what is it?
Pedophobia.
Yeah.
If you don't want your 12-year-old daughter to see penises, that is because you're a pedophile.
That's going to be the left's next big move.
Pedophobia.
CNN did an article, Do Pedophiles Deserve Sympathy?
Again, you can find this stuff.
This isn't me thinking, well, what if these people said it?
This is all said.
So we know that CNN has argued that pedophiles deserve sympathy.
Chris Cuomo believes that 12-year-old girls should see penises, and if you have a problem
with that, you're a pedophile.
And Jacob Schwartz was a guest on Chris Cuomo's show.
Jacob Schwartz worked for Mayor Bill de Blasio, friends with Robbie Mooc, big hot shot Democrat,
caught with child pornography, the media, they always want to bury that.
But God help us.
If somebody who follows us on Twitter, posts an offensive meme, posts an offensive tweet,
then suddenly there's a big problem.
So there is a cover-up, Harvey Weinstein is a tiff the iceberg, Harvey Weinstein is
just a creep.
But now we're going to go find a pedophile.
So go in after him, he can't be stopped, thanks for listening, Mike Cernovich, Cernovich.com.
