We now take you live to the resistance.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Commence.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's official, the AG is criminally investigating Hillary for being
a Russian spy.
The whole house of cards is coming down, but first let's get to this key report where
YouTube admits massive censorship.
YouTube is admitting that they've altered the algorithm and are using human curators
to manipulate the search results for certain topics so that the videos that show up as
the top results are from mainstream media channels instead of independent channels
no matter how popular the videos that they produce are.
The way that YouTube used to work is that when you search for a topic, the top search
results used to be videos not with the most views as most people think, but videos with
the most watch time, meaning that when somebody clicks on a video and if they keep watching
it, it starts racking up the amount of time that people are watching it, and that some
total adds up to the total watch time, showing that the video is what those people are searching
for, not if they just find a video and click off of it immediately because it's deceptive
or some clickbait title or something.
So the videos used to be relevant to the search or videos that are relevant to the search
that people liked watching.
But now YouTube is admitting that they've altered the algorithm after searches are turning
up videos about conspiracy theories.
In fact, my friend Gary Franchi over at the Next News Network sent me this screenshot of
some of his analytics showing his video directly being affected by this algorithm.
This chart here is the amount of views per hour that his video was getting over a 48-hour
period, and so this is about 3,000 views per hour just chugging along, chugging along,
drops a little bit there, this is probably early in the morning, 2-3-4 in the morning,
starts to pick up again here, and then all of a sudden, boom, such a steep drop-off,
which can really only be explained by some change in the algorithm.
And just lo and behold, we have YouTube admitting that they changed the algorithm to then favor
major news network channels.
James O'Keefe's project Veritas recently did an undercover investigation into YouTube,
and they got a YouTube employee who is the lead brand and diversity curator to admit
that they are censoring independent channels in favor of mainstream news outlets.
We can't have people finding Alex Jones' videos too easily.
We have to bury those at the bottom of the search results.
By the way, did I miss pronoun this person earlier in my video?
I didn't mean to.
That's a crime in California now.
I don't want to get fined to go to jail for calling this thing a guy.
By the way, this person's job title is literally brand and diversity curation lead at YouTube,
which gives us quite a bit of insight into the manipulation that's going on at YouTube,
and who's doing the manipulating.
Gee, I can't imagine why we have so many conservative videos getting censored on YouTube,
getting demonetized, and getting removed for violating the community guidelines when there
are people like this making the decisions.
By the way, here's the same person during a different part of Project Veritas' investigation.
It looks like they're at a different location, different day, wearing a different sweatshirt,
and look at this.
The sweatshirt says Google printed on the sleeve, and it looks like it also says Black
Lives Matter printed on the front.
This whole fake news witch hunt at the mainstream media launched immediately after the election
last year has primarily been focusing on Facebook.
Oh, fake news is spreading through Facebook, Facebook, but they're now focusing on YouTube,
and they hate us, and they want us taken down.
Here's an article from BuzzFeed, how YouTube serves as the content engine of the internet's
dark side.
Everybody knows that Twitter and Facebook spread bad information and hate speech, but
YouTube, which pays for conspiracy theories seen by millions, may be even worse.
By the way, this article came out just only a month before the YouTube adpocalypse, the
advertising apocalypse, when YouTube just took their advice and demonetized most news channels.
Folks, and it's a lot worse, the Democrats have openly announced a plan to sue info
wars out of operation by the end of next year.
We're going to expose that.
We have all their documents, please stay with us.
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best
selling product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle, and we're now purchasing so much
of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able
to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off, and I thought I could offer this for
maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is, a whole bunch
of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's 1996 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free, triple eight, two five three three
one three nine.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's the 18th day of October 2017 on this Wednesday edition.
We are reaching record numbers of people every day across the planet, all part of our amazing
human race, despite the admissions of major governments, major corporations, major bureaucracies
to censor info wars.
And yours truly and our team, and that means censor you and your will and your support
for this broadcast, because we are seen by the globalist as the heart, as the spirit,
as the Bible of resistance to their globalist operations.
And instead of just blowing me up at a car bomb, which would turn me into a martyr, they
are trying to destroy who I am and who info wars is by building straw men and straw women
that do not represent us that are facsimiles, and then advertising that fraud and then discrediting
that fraud and destroying that fraud, not the real McCoy, not the bona fide real deal.
We are witnessing a private corporate world government openly at war with the nation state
and all forms of independence, all forms of freedom, the family.
This is their stated goal.
And they've gone from denying it's their goal, building it in the shadows, to now openly
coming out and saying it is their sworn operation and their sworn directive to attack Christians,
to attack the West, to create cultural and racial divides, to medicalize the populations
through medical tyranny, to deindustrialize and make the population completely dependent,
to move people also away from the farms and ranches and to make us completely domesticated
and controlled.
We are facing 21st century, high tech, eugenics based technocracy.
Terms like deep state shadow government, false flag, all of these are terms I popularized
on this broadcast that are now household terms and words.
I'm not giving myself credit.
Listeners though need to understand what you're watching and what you're listening to is what
the enemy fears and that's for a very important reason.
We understand the globalist operation.
We've simply studied their own program and their own operation and we know that if we
expose that it's horribly anti-human, extremely authoritarian, viciously greedy and hateful
and covetous of information and freedom and that it seeks to enslave humanity and seeks
to break us down into biological artificialities.
You see, it's not like Blade Runner where humans create a race of superhumans to serve
them.
This is where the technocracy, the elites who've never been able to capture and fully
control humanity, biologically turn us into artificial biological facsimiles of what we
were through genetic engineering, through the GMO, through the vaccines, through the
culture, through the food, through the water, through the programming until we are no longer
human and need them to exist, making them masters artificially over humanity by removing
our humanity.
It's the only way they can conquer free will.
And we see every metric, the cancer, the neurological disorders, the gut disorders, the skin disorders,
every new disease popping out every week, the life expectancy plunging, infant mortality
exploding, diabetes, type 1 and 2, up multi-thousand percentage points, pediatric cancers up over
20-plus thousand percent, many are 10,000, but some are over 20,000 percent up.
It is a biological holocaust.
And the globalists divert you from all their real biological and chemical holocaust by
claiming they want to carbon tax, carbon dioxide, and oh, they're going to sue your company
because your clothes have 20 times less lead in them than an apple does or kale does, but
then they're going to spread HIV and hepatitis and all the rest of it, forcibly putting into
the blood supply.
I'm talking about California.
You want to know the future.
Look at Sweden, look at California, look at Germany, look at the UK, look at all the
programming and that's the future they've got in store for all of us.
Bottom line, they're coming for you and your family.
Look at the Washington Post headline.
California makes it a misdemeanor to kill somebody with HIV.
Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen.
This is a hate letter to humanity.
This is a global takeover.
This is total and complete bloodthirsty domination.
All posing with a simpering NPR voice meant to put you into a trance.
Everything they do is about putting you into a trance, having you sleep, sleep, give in
your will, give in your will, simply turn on the Netflix, drink another beer, sleep, sleep.
Don't worry about it today.
Let us run things, talk like we talk, use only the words we say, join our cult, everything
will be okay, come on in, the water is fine, sleep, sleep.
Everything we do is about awaken.
The sleeper must awaken, the giant must awaken, look around you, you're being forced into
an artificial matrix system.
So that's the big challenge we're up against, but it's the animating contest of liberty
and that's why they hate us because it came out in the Wall Street Journal yesterday,
I meant to cover it, I didn't, please print me the Wall Street Journal.
George Soros, the admitted Nazi collaborator, who CNN says is not a Nazi collaborator, talk
about next level fake news and then I made it up even though he's on 60 minutes saying
it, normally gives here in the United States every year about $500 million from swindles
he's engaged in and bankrupting economies all over the world.
And he admittedly gave over a billion of his swindled money, he's just a front guy for
intelligence agencies to the State Department, $5 billion to overthrow the elected government
of Ukraine and start a civil war there.
He also funded part of the Arab Spring, but he's just one of the top generals of this
satanic order.
He is now transferring $18 billion to his foundation to directly battle the American
people and nationalist movements worldwide and he says it, there's the headline, George
Soros transfers $18 billion to his foundation, creating an instant giant.
Now, what are they doing simultaneously on every so-called late night comedy show, claiming
that I'm a snake oil salesman and that all our products are pure crap, even though most
of them are private labeled, the very ones sold by Jeff Bezos and Whole Foods, that all
the leftist watchdog groups completely leave alone.
And they're openly calling for my arrest and Gwyneth Paltrow's arrest, they picked her
out as a liberal figurehead so it wouldn't look as political when they try to have us
both arrested, which is ongoing admittedly right now.
Simply because they don't want us to get millions of dollars at Info Wars to then fund this
operation to fight the $18 billion of a foreign Nazi collaborator, a literal monster creature
that funded the radical Arab Spring to murder women that were going to college, murder gays,
murder priests, blow up hundreds of churches in Syria and Egypt alone, mass murder everywhere.
This is how they operate.
So his $18 billion of filthy money is to run lawsuits and is to go after the NRA and is
to go after Info Wars and is to go after the Free Press and is to lobby Congress and is
to overthrow nation states, that's the admitted open society's main program.
But it's all philanthropic, see, he puts his dirty money from everything you can imagine,
currency speculation, it goes on and on with all his insider knowledge from the globalist
to overthrowing countries and smashing the Trump Revolution, you can say what you want
about Trump, but at least he's trying to be the president and you know him by all his
authoritarian enemies.
The Hollywood director Rick Linkletter came out and said, you know, Alan's has always
been anti-establishment, anti-power structure, I don't know why he's pro-power structure,
pro-power structure, we have the whole global power structure coming down against America
and our desperate attempt to just at least get control of our government again, that's
why they hate Trump because he believes America should be run by America.
Is he perfect?
No, but he's an American and I stand with him.
I stand with you and we'll never back down.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA PAC technology, bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the PAC bacon or warm and serve.
Lifesaving ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
From part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses, individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
This is Dan Billard.
You owe the IRS money you can't pay.
Our tax debt's crippling you.
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, DanPilla.com.
He's your one-stop shop for the highest quality body armor, period, why would you go anywhere
else?
Go to katiearmor.com and get your body armor today while you still can.
Go to katiearmor.com, that's C-A-T-I armor.com.
Propure water filters, most trusted, most tested.
Right now you can save 25% on the Propure Nomad Gravity System.
Visit and authorize Propure Dealer for details.
It's P-R-O-P-U-R.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying
what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Remember and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infoawardslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press.
All the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infoawardslife.com.
We're not just going to have to end the next week the Brain Force Plus special 50% off.
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric, chaga
mushroom, bee pollen and more concentrate.
You talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey and it's great
to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible.
My son is growing like a weed using it, it's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible.
It is amazing.
InfoaWarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand
the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves, so don't think before what I'm doing, I want to thank
you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Olaan Labe t-shirt, you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit infoawardstore.com today and commit to helping the Info War.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
The globalists are already living in about 2040.
Technology-wise, they're thrown at mission.
They believe they'll soon break completely away from this former civilization.
We are to then be orderly, exterminated.
It'll be done high-tech, where you basically beg for it.
But if you're aware of the operation, you can defeat it.
By the way, there's no joining it.
A lot of people who are soulless or mercenary buy into it short-term.
They are dishonorable, blind people.
Okay, next segment, I'm going to get into the big enchilada.
The House of Cards is falling in a spectacular way of Robert Mueller covering up the activities
of the Clintons, the Democratic Party, in a giant orgy being paid off by the Communist
Chinese, the Russians, and others.
And we have Attorney General Sessions in the Judiciary Committee today, reporting that
he is looking in a criminal investigation of Hillary for basic espionage against this
republic.
Now, we have Mueller transferring uranium illegally in a bag to the Russians.
We have the Democratic Party, most of them getting $10, $15, $20, $30 million a piece.
I mean, the high-level Democrats were all getting paid off by the Russians.
That's what governments do, and we're wide open to espionage in this country via the
Democratic Party.
They've always been the ones that have been working with the Russians.
They helped put the Bolsheviks in in 1917 and visited that social engineering hell on
the Russians they now want here.
They'll keep going.
This is like what they did in Russia.
Why is it so similar?
And why is Russia fighting it?
Because they already got the face sucker after 80-plus years off their face, partially.
Yes, the New York Liberals funded the Bolshevik Revolution.
That's public.
That's in the Encyclopedia Britannica.
The left doesn't play games.
They'll butcher you and your family.
They get a chance.
As long as you're Christian, they want to get you in that FEMA camp and stomp your guts
out.
I'm not saying that rhetorically.
The average leftist wants to literally murder you and your family.
And we now all see it.
They hate America.
They hate God.
They hate working.
They're just a bunch of litigious devil-worshiping scum that hate you because you're strong,
you're honorable, you're good-looking, and you got what they don't have, a conscience
and a connection to God.
And they're not going to stop till they've sexualized every one of your children and
until they've wrecked your whole society and until they've broken down everything and until
they've bankrupted the country.
Just remember that.
They want to shoot you up with as much lead and mercury as they can.
They want to brain damage your family.
They want to see you absolutely sterile and die in a cancer so they can suck all the money
out of you.
And they're never going to quit because they're the enemy.
They will not coexist with us.
They want to just absolutely rape everything.
They hate my guts because I know who they are.
And now I realize even their low-level supporters are actually in on it.
They were never liberals.
They were always fake.
They always had a plan.
They don't coexist.
They will absorb you and destroy you because they have envy.
If you're a good person, they spiritually hate you.
Now, coming up in the next segment, we're going to go over all of it.
It's huge.
So important.
Here's a brief clip of the attorney general saying, yeah, they're criminally probing
Hitler-y.
Here it is.
I'd like to remind you that Deputy Attorney Rosenstein directly supervised the criminal
case when he was U.S. Attorney in Maryland.
I don't think it would be proper for him to supervise a review of his own conduct.
Do you?
It would be his decision.
He's a man of integrity and ability if he feels that he has an inability to proceed
with any investigation.
It would be his responsibility to make that determination and should consult, as I told
you, I would and as I have done with the senior ethics people at the department.
Reports suggest that the Clinton Foundation received millions of dollars from interested
parties in the transaction.
Well, Clinton received 500,000 for a speech in Moscow, June 2010, from the Russian government
Align Bank.
The same month as the speech, Russia began the uranium acquisition process.
This fact pattern raises serious concerns about improper political influence on the
process by the previous, by the Clintons during the Obama administration, as the Justice
Department fully investigated whether the Russians compromised the Obama administration's
decisions to smooth the way for transactions, and if not, why not?
Mr. Chairman, we're working hard to maintain discipline in the department.
It wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on any ongoing investigation.
Wouldn't be proper for me to comment on any ongoing investigation.
They're investigating Hillary.
Now, where did you hear about uranium-1?
Where'd you hear about Podesta's time and the barrel was coming?
Right here, last year, early in the campaign, early in 2016, and then suddenly, Roger Shown
and I, we were the Russians because we were the dutiful, dog-like, hound-like, patriot-Americans
going after the foreign manipulation.
Now, the only reason Russia's coming up is because they accused Trump of it, and there's
no evidence that the Clintons are involved.
Russia is nothing compared to the Chinese Communist.
I mean, the Chinese communists have basically taken over Hollywood, the mainstream media,
half the Democratic Party.
I mean, we are under deep espionage by the Chai Cubs.
I'm not defending what Russia's done.
We've exposed it.
But it's all coming out now.
How beautiful is that?
And Mueller, of course, has been viciously going after Trump because he knows he's involved
as a bag man with the Clintons and his law firm and the companies he's involved with,
personally getting the Russian money and most of it's secret and covering up with the Clintons
and blocking the investigation.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, because we're willing to break this first and force it out, so a
year and a half later, you're now seeing it in the news, where the target?
Ladies have congressional hearings, they keep saying, the vector is in full force.
The vector is Jones.
The vector is Drudge.
They know the vectors.
They know who keeps injecting truth, who is patient zero for the disease of liberty and
awakening that will bring down their filthy tyranny.
But they see us as a disease.
So that's why you need to commit to financially support us and buy the t-shirts, the books,
the videos, the supplements, all of them and sign up for auto ship and get an additional
10% off on the already great deals to commit because we're under massive attack all over
the places you see and behind the scenes, I'm not going to get into at this point, but
I will by governments, state governments, federal unamens, stay behind networks, globalist
disinfo squads, infiltration operations, you name it, we are the American Republic.
We are the resistance and we don't get Soros money from bankrupted overthrown countries
and Arab Springs, that murderer funds, that Nazi piece of garbage.
We're funded by you and if you'll fund us, I guarantee you this pledge, I'm never giving
up and I'm going to ram these people right back to hell.
Hey Daniel Brieman, why new manna, storeable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead and we take this charge
seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value, new
manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today, call 888-597-0-775, 888-597-0-775, online discounts available
at www.powerprepper.com, www.powerprepper.com.
With nearly 70 years of history engineering bunkers today, Atlas Survival Shelters is
still the authority, Atlas offers 18 different choices from commercial tornado shelters to
underground nuclear fallout shelters, starting at just $99.99, with 100% financing available,
comfortable interiors and state-of-the-art air filtration systems, Atlas Survival Shelters
are the most popular private survival shelters in the world, call 1-855-4 Bunker Now or visit
www.AtlasSurvivalShelters.com Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three
things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the
InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose AutoShip before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
AutoShip because we hold back a surplus for AutoShip customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareShore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new AutoShip feature at InfoWareShore.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip.
Win, win, win at InfoWareShore.com, free shipping on orders above $50 and all AutoStock items
are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
InfoWare's Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver
designed to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Prepare this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and supercharge
your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Blue selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and
overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
These conspiracy theories were first spread by radio talk show host Alex Jones.
But to get the employee at YouTube on tape admitting that they do it, I mean you must
be a threat if they call you out by name.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones is a lunatic.
Because they know that these are legitimate use of organizations.
And at that point somebody decides they're going to scroll past that and go find Alex
Jones.
Well, they were looking for him to be a method.
That man is a threat to this country.
There's a guy on the radio.
His name is Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
Time to stop submitting in this charity.
It's time to realize that we're being enslaved.
I heard that on Alex Jones.
Info wars went even further.
Info wars.
It's a radio show hosted by Alex Jones.
We are in an information war and we are losing that war.
Nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great man.
Info wars.
Info wars.com.
Info wars comes to mind.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Right now their war is the Info wars.
You watch Info wars.
Info wars.
I've got a chag going.
Looking at widely reported information from data.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.com.
Info wars.
Info wars.com.
Info wars.
I want freedom.
That's what I want.
And that's what Jason wants.
What you need to listen to Alex Jones
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live. Let's jump right into news that for our listeners and viewers
Is a year and a half old?
It was February 2016. We first wrote articles and did live video slash radio reports
Breaking down the previous FBI investigation under Robert Mueller
Before Comey came in of the Clintons selling out to Russia uranium deals you name it
Gas prom gas and oil deals. We're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars to their foundation
Not just the millions total in speeches they gave in Moscow now imagine if Trump
Was giving uranium on the tarmac of some of the strongest pure issue uranium ever discovered to
That the Federal Security Bureau the FSB or the equivalent of the Russian KGB
Slash FBI they were both hats in the FSB
former KGB
Imagine if Trump was giving uranium in a silver
James Bond style briefcase
To them for Hillary Clinton
That's mainstream news and then the same Mueller years later comes in as a special counsel
Really a prosecutor and only goes after Trump and says oh my gosh Trump's son
Met for 10 minutes with a lady claiming that she had proofs that Hillary was paid off by Russians
Of course the campaign was looking into that they better be
But they didn't need to meet with her it was in the New York Times in 2015
We've already covered this but what's the big news now in the Hill report and others and
Hannity breaking it down one of the few good outlets left on Fox
We have the documents
We have the witnesses. We have the FBI reports that were given to Mueller and
then to Comey that were completely and totally killed because Mueller's law firm and
Companies that Mueller sits on the boards of are heavily invested with state-run
Mining and energy companies and gas companies and wait for it defense companies in Russia
And it's in the FBI investigation Hillary as a secretary of state was signing
waivers just as Tosh Plumlee told us on air. Let's get Tosh back on
Farmer CIA contractor very famous even involved the Bay of Pigs Tosh Plumlee said look it's all about Hillary and
And the import-export bands that the State Department has she's operating her own government under Obama
He said this was the start of Obama's second term and they are the ones flying the weapons in and out of
The US all over the world and fast and furious was part of a weapons program into Mexico into the Middle East to fund the
Arab Spring that started five years ago
Everything Tosh Plumlee told you was completely classified
Directly from NATO and the CIA and the Army and a shadow group in the shadow group
battling against this sellout of the country
They death-threatening the Justice Department called him they threatened us we moved forward and I'm not telling you
Hey, aren't we great? I'm explaining to you that we've done what nobody else will do
We have executed on every cylinder. We have told you the truth. We have over delivered
Because we're not given into the globalist, but you need to understand
They are coming after us with censorship and control and behind-the-scenes stuff that I'm not ready to get into yet
openly to shut us down you name it and I'm just gonna stop right there
So we need your prayers and
And we need your financial support and we need you more than that to spread the articles and the videos and get around
The sensors and the blocking on Google and YouTube and Facebook and Twitter
Hand deliver the stories print them off download the videos have your neighbors over show them
You can show them Google executives saying number one goal stop Alex Jones
Because they know who blew them wide open on the Devil worship child molestation stuff that they had to then change the
Subject on and claim we'd retract it totally made up who blew them wide open on the Russia issues
Who blew them wide open over and over again info wars and our platform of guests people like colonel Schaefer and
Dr. Corsi and Matt drudge who came here exclusively almost two years ago and laid out everything to you that was gonna happen in the next few years from a
High-level Supreme Court justice and other people who'd been even higher in the government
And I'm gonna stop right there
We've had sources at the highest levels of this plan because there were people who weren't perfect
But they weren't out to get America and they didn't want to bankrupt the country and they didn't want to transfer our power to communist China
They're the globalists selling the country out and they know we're awake. They know we're informed and they're scared
we come back I'm gonna play a boil down of the
Judiciary committee hearings and then excerpts of Hannity last night where they did break a lot of new info, but confirming everything we told you
19 months ago
Everything that we broke down here. No wonder they called us Russian spies
What are you gonna do when you're on tarmacs with uranium illegally for Hillary?
Transferring to the Russians and then Hillary's doing deals selling out one-third of our uranium to uranium one
What are you gonna do when you're the international globalist selling out nation-states to the highest bidder actual traders?
What are you gonna do
You're gonna blame your enemies the American people for what you are. We're the people getting us out of TPP
We're the folks getting us out of globalism unelected groups
We're the patriots fighting to get the jobs back to take care of the veterans to cut the taxes to get the economy going to
Stabilize the Republic to cut the size of the federal government and we're delivering delivering delivering delivering because you
The American people of every race color and creed who are just one race red-blooded humans
Understand what's happening and understand what the elites doing and know when you see the whole mainstream media against somebody
You know, they're the establishment and you know who they're attacking the good guys
And you know we're fighting as hard as we can right here with you
But you better understand there's a civil war in this country right now in information warfare
They're trying to start a physical one to beat up and attack and intimidate everybody
So that we supposedly back down and give up. Let me tell you something
I got so much energy fighting you people
That I absolutely love it that I'm enemy number one next to Trump
My only frustration is that I can't execute good enough to take you down and I'm not strong enough or smart enough to get you faster
I'm so angry at myself. We're not doing more and not being stronger
And I've seen every angle they got coming and I usually don't even execute on it when we have total victory if I started truly
Executing but I swear before God on the altar of liberty
Eternal resistance to you to quote Thomas Jefferson and I ask God to take full control of me and help me do a better job
We'll be back. Stay with us
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best-selling product
Brainforce now Brainforce plus there's 20% more in each bottle and we're now purchasing so much of it from the major
Organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able to get it for less
So I'm offering for the first time ever
50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is
Blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already you're stocking up. They know how great it is a whole bunch of organic
natural healthy known
Neutropics and if you want good clean focused energy then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time
It's a good deal at $39. It's
1996 at info wars life
Com or simply call toll free
Triple eight two five three three one three nine
Refreshing of breath with Emerson Central's organic mouthwash
Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant
Refreshing taste Emerson Central's mouthwash is non-gmo
Certified organic made without alcohol
chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial
Properties that work well to help tone gum and freshen your breath. This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 bucks water
Emerson Central's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gum and canker source go organic today with Emerson Central's
Visit infowarstore.com to learn more. That's infowarstore.com
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor
That's right
Now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers
Go to infowarstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
That's easy to use and let me tell you something
It is perfect for freeze-drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals
Whoo, that's what I'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating
You know like what you get at the grocery store. There is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain
97% of the food's taste color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze-dryer
So what are you waiting for check it out right now at infowarstore.com
Vitamin mineral fusion visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemister
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great-tasting
Multivitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of
Essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of infowars life
We've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2
Super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
Manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of
Multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived
Or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured
You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
You're listening to the Alex Jones show
Now take you live
We now take you live to the central Texas Command Center and the heart of the resistance
So America show because there is a war
Was down but not out and it's now awakening to the unelected global government that's been set up by a bunch of ruthless
Psychopathic devil worshipers and it's all gonna come out
In fact reportedly Julian Assange coming up
In just a few weeks is gonna drop the motherload hammer
On
Mueller and all of his Russian collusion so get ready for that
He kept waiting to see a Mueller would drop the made-up Trump investigation and actually go after the Clintons
But he hasn't so that's all going to be coming reportedly
According to our boffins at 4chan have been proven to be about a thousand times more accurate than CNN
But look at these tweets from L president a
Donald John Trump the guy that would never be president. Wow FBI confirms report that James Comey drafted letter
Exonerating crooked Hillary long before investigation was complete. We told you that a month ago
I just love how mainstream media always sits on stuff
You literally get news here days weeks months or years or decades before I mean, it's just true
That's why they hate us because see we'll put it out there first when we have the documentation
Or other great researchers will have them on we're just a big focal point of human intelligence
And then it builds and builds and then forces out mainstream. I mean that that's why they hate us
And I just keep telling you that because they're coming after his folks. They're coming after you
They're coming after anybody that stands up for you when you stand up with us
Here's Trump people not interviewed including Clinton herself. Comey stated under oath that he didn't
Do this obviously a fix
Again, comey stated under oath that he did not do this, but he did it's obviously a fix. Where is the Justice Department?
These are Trump's tweets
Last night as it has turned out James Comey lied and leaked and totally protected Hillary Clinton
He was the best thing that ever happened to her
And he lied and said that he didn't leak the memos, but he did and then he lied about what was in the memos
I mean, of course, they're a pack of literal criminals
colluding with Russia China and everybody else shelling us out to the TPP that would have more power than Congress
Rick link letter is in the Daily Beast article
Asking
Famous director friend of mine. I wouldn't even call him Hollywood. He's Austin
He's a good director smart guy
He's like I don't know why Alex is always anti establishment, but now he seems to be pro establishment pro establishment
You've got the whole global government the mega banks the power structure trying to stop Trump from jump-starting the economy
Trump's like a medic with defibrillators
Trying to shock my heart back
He could be a bank robber. I'd still wanting to turn my heart back on but he's not
Trump is a champion Trump is demonized thousands of lawsuits against him death threats
They're his whole family's under attack and I am a fellow traveler. I
Am experiencing what Trump is experiencing to a lesser degree and it makes me absolutely
See him as a kindred spirit. We are brothers in arms in the battle for America in the second American Revolution
So you bet Rick link letter who said nice stuff about me in the in the article
They tried to get him to do a hit piece. He's promoting his new film
They're saying why'd you put him in movies, you know, was he like this before like this before I was anti-establishment
Because the globalists were in full control. This is our counter-revolution
This is us trying to take the flag back and we're having victory
to total war
This isn't hype folks look around you what's going on. This is epic and
We're winning every special election
Libertarians are taking the Republican Party over our vision that we launched 10 years ago
With the Tea Party to take over the Republican Party is happening
It's unfolding. We're promoting an ideology that's popular and sexy and successful
We're promoting 57 Chevy's and Marilyn Monroe against a North Korean or Venezuelan model
We're going to win if we execute
prosperity
The only problem is can you handle all the success? Can you handle all the choices? Can you handle it?
Or we let a bunch outside globalist scum come in and take it all over
So Trump's calling Comey a liar
He is a liar Senate Judiciary Committee probe into Obama Russian nuclear bribery case is criminal the hell boom
Attorney that worked with Mueller
Says Mueller head Russian bribery scandal from Congress must resign now was a corrupt attorney
Sean Hay discusses uranium-1 scandal with Sarah Carter and John Solomon
Trump hits back at McCain be careful at some point I fight back
I think God's already fighting back against old John McCain
That's all coming up. But right now. Let's go to this compilation of Hannity and the Judiciary Committee with the Attorney General saying Hillary is under criminal
Investigation, let's go ahead and go to that clip
Democrats are concerned that Russian Tampa Russia's tampered with our election results in 2016
Well six years before that they tampered with our net our nuclear security the case proved that the nuclear Russia Russia's nuclear industry
Had bribed their way and compromised the American trucking company that moved all of Russia's uranium in the United States
That's a national security threat and for two years the Obama administration
Hillary Clinton and everybody who's been quoted has said the Obama administration had no knowledge of a national security threat
And that's why they didn't have any problem approving the uranium-1 deal
Well, guess what tonight we have a real national security threat that was proven in real time in
2009 and it's going to be interesting to see what Congress does tomorrow morning
Chuck grassy has a hearing with Jeff Sessions on the seat, and I think you might see some interesting questions
I want to ask a question that looks like history, but it was in the news recently
Yesterday I believe according to government documents and recent news reports the Justice Department had an ongoing criminal and investigation for
Library extortion and money laundering into officials for the russian company making the purchase of uranium-1
That purchase was approved during the previous administration and resulted in the rations owning 20% of America's uranium mining capacity
What are you doing to find out how the russian takeover of the American uranium was allowed to occur despite criminal
Conduct by the russian company that the Obama administration approved to make the purchase
Mr. Chairman
we will
Hear your concerns the Department of Justice will take such actions as is appropriate
I know and I would would offer that some people have gone to jail in that transaction
Already, but the article on talks about other issues
So I without confirming or denying the existence of any particular investigation
I would say I hear your concerns and they will be reviewed
This is stunning that the Attorney General the United States Eric Holder
He hid the information
He knew about the bribery the kickbacks the extortion the money
And he also knew as well as Hillary and had to sign off along with Hillary Clinton on the deal
Even though that we know that they're trying to influence every aspect of our security and get control over America's uranium
They still allowed the deal to go through
Well, and these are many of the same players, right?
You had Rod Rosenstein Rod Rosenstein then was head of this investigation when he was in Maryland
Looking at the trucking company and remember that's right
You have a trucking company that's moving American uranium that is involved in the one that puts Mueller into take down the president
Tons of issues and they're moving a national security asset uranium and you have Andrew McCabe
Who's the deputy director of the FBI now who was also charged with that investigation?
These people are literally
Is Mueller involved in this?
Yes, and Mueller who was in charge then
That is the investigator himself
So we got Mueller having to investigate his boss now Rod Rosenstein who also and Andrew McCabe of the FBI and probably James Comey
They all knew about this
That's exactly what we're looking at pause for a moment
Back up a few seconds. You notice what's happening?
This is gonna hurt the country in many ways when this fall comes out
So they held back and they're still trying to put Trump in his family in prison or overthrow him
Send their Russian agents when there's no connections and you've got the Democrats weren't Russian agents
They were just pimping us like America was a whore for two dollars out to whoever'd buy it. I
Mean these are like pimps that got 50 John's out the door and you know the John's are putting cigarettes out on the woman's face
Kind of you know last leg before they shoot the woman in the back of the head and throw her throw her in the river
And that's how the globalists were treating America and now they're so angry and so upset that the sleeping giant
Finally woke back up and threw these monsters off of us and we're stumbling out the hotel room door
Hoping we can find our family somewhere down the road after we just got gang raped by 10,000 dudes and
And seeing it and all of them are pissed because they they hate us
They wanted to degrade us and bring us down just like they want to sexualize your children. They get off on it
Now financially support us. We've got some of the biggest sales ever. They're absolutely about to end 50% off brain force
We've got 50% off on some other products and through a pledge never done that before
30% off some malvitality 10% additional off we sign up for auto ship free shipping at infowarstore.com on order three dollars or more
But just commit to financially support us because the globalists absolutely hate it and we're gonna defeat them and crush them
If you keep supporting us so fund us now
Not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it
Why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most
I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host
Mechanism right now with all the refugees
Spreading disease around we have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it
You have the neem in there
You have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood. I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year
All right, well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today. It just came back in yesterday living defense info wars life
Com and folks you can't lose full of stuff. It's great for your body period and
You support the broadcast info wars lives.com. Thank you doctor group from the global healing center. Thank you so much for all your work
Sir on this great product
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's essentials
Perfect for face and body this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection
We source ingredients from nature producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins this natural lotion contains
21% zinc oxide which is the largest particle size used and we do not use nano particles
The larger the particle the safer it is for your body
The organic oils help hydrate the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most
Sensitive skin EmRick's essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's essentials
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit info wars store.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion
You're listening to the Alex Jones show
Hello, this is Hank Hill, and I'm telling you what you need to listen to Alex Jones
Live from Austin, Texas
Broadcasting worldwide
It's Alex Jones
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live hour number two
I have one of the top coordinators to John Burt's decided joining us for a couple segments coming up
In about 20 minutes to talk about the danger of a constitutional convention
I know it sounds like a good way to get things done, but they could totally rewrite the whole Constitution during one
They probably stage a big crisis in the middle of one
So we're gonna look at that and how far we've come exposing globalism and then I
Do intend to open the phones up and Gerald Salente joins us the last 30 minutes of the third hour and then Roger Stone
Joins us talk about vindicated everything Roger Stone wrote down here
A year and a half ago has now come out about the Russia situation and more weapons secrets transferred by Hillary
Simply amazing and now
We have congressional hearings with Jeff Sessions the Attorney General saying Hillary is under criminal investigation
He says I will not get into things that are ongoing investigations to ask is she being investigating said well
I won't get into ongoing investigations. What's that tell you and
So we know that the whole uranium one thing is now coming out
It was a total FBI report spiked by Mueller and spiked by Comey and
They were you bag men delivering it getting money themselves
literal bag men on you know tarmacs the case of Mueller and
So that's why they're so frothing to stopping because they just committed gargantuan crimes
And let foreign governments Pakistan run the DNC computers. I mean the list just goes on and on
This is such over-the-top stuff. It's mind boggling. They got away with this much and coming up
Trump tells McCain you listen here, buddy. I fight back and I'm getting ready to slap you upside your little head
Politically, so we're gonna have that coming up as well
And then some other incredible news
I haven't gotten to yet dealing with the missing security guard that popped up on CNN that's best buddies with the Mandalay owners
Turns out DeGeneres has invested in the MGM as well big time. That's coming up conflict of interest
But here's more of the Hannity report last night. There was groundbreaking in many ways just for the fact that's on mainstream news
And that we do have more intel it was much worse than we even thought but we were on target
It was just the rat hole was deeper. We targeted the rat hole correctly, but only went down a few levels
It got even worse as the basement fell into a whole nother sub level
And who knows what's beneath that devil worshipping pedophiles, of course
But that's what it's about. That's what the bottom of this globalist rainbow
So it's not a leprechaun and it's not a pot of gold. It's pot belly pedophile devil worship nest. Let's go ahead and finish the club
Would like to remind you that
deputy attorney Rosenstein
Directly supervised the criminal case when he was US attorney in Maryland
I don't think it would be proper for him to supervise a review of his own conduct. Do you?
It would be his decision. He's a man of integrity and ability if he feels that he has a
Inability to proceed with any invest investigation
It would be his responsibility
To make that determination and should consult as I told you I would and as I have done with the senior ethics people at the department
Reports suggest that the Clinton Foundation received millions of dollars from interested parties in the transaction
Bill Clinton received 500,000 for a speech in Moscow June 2010 from the Russian government Align Bank
I just a month as a speech Russia gate began the uranium acquisition process this fact
pattern raises serious concerns about improper political influence on the process by
the previous
By by the Clintons during the Obama administration has the Justice Department fully investigated
Whether the Russians compromised the Obama administration's decisions to smooth away for transactions and if not, why not?
Mr. Chairman we're working hard to
Maintain discipline in the department. It wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on any ongoing investigation
There you go. Hillary's under criminal investigation. No other way to read that finally
The Republic like the Phoenix from the ashes is rising. They want to fight
They're scared now. They understand we want one
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract L tryptophan
Lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
Wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
That goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life calm and say goodbye to fatigue
That's info wars life calm
And it's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say I don't know what's gonna happen to me into this
But you want to fight you better believe you got one
From the front lines of the information war it's Alex Jones
That little snippet was from a speech I gave in Dallas seven years ago
I don't know how all this is gonna end
Do you want to fight?
You better believe you got one
And now the globalists have got that fight they've been looking for and they're hitting the alarm buttons everywhere
They're getting indicted. They're getting overthrown elections from Australia to Austria to the UK to the US
To Brazil they are in full panic mode and I know I've told my crew
This Russia thing is a pack of bull. We all know it is
But let's stop covering it defended ourselves because I'm sick of hearing about it
Let's fight the globalist on everything else. They're doing and let's talk about getting the economy going again and
Jumpstarting the nation and moving forward, but now it's big news
Because Mueller covered up the investigation. Comey did they lied to Congress. They transferred uranium
Mueller was a bag man doing it. I
Mean, it's just incredible that everything they've said Trump did they've done. I liken this to say a divorce proceeding
Where
Your husband is the judge and you're the wife and then the judge sits over the hearing of his own children and takes him away from the
wife or
Your wife is the family court judge and you're the husband and she takes him away from you and it'd be like Hitler
sitting at Nuremberg in judgment in 1946 in
Germany for the Nuremberg trials and
Hitler's up there
calling in Herman Guring and
calling in
All these other guys and saying how dare you do this for Hitler?
And they're like mindfuhrer. You are the judge. I followed your orders mindfuhrer
My leaping my leech in my my leader my gout lighter on my
group and
I mean, that's what's going on here. Oh
You'd say Hitler cannot be the chief justice
over the Nuremberg Tribunal
Let's pull up some photos the Nuremberg
Tribunal, please the Nuremberg court put those on screen for TV viewers
Remember if you're a radio listener listening on over 200
Of our wondrous affiliates across the United States
Please support those local stations support their local sponsors become a sponsor
Send them a weekly or monthly tithe in the information ward
But whatever you do remember you can always tell your friends and family that may not be in your listening area about info wars.com
forward slash show
Or all the other platforms and podcasts and things where people can pick it up. It's the sharing of the live link
It's the sharing of it on Facebook Twitter YouTube that gets around the censors
And now has us reaching close to 60 million people a week
Our peak was 87 million the week of the election our previous peak was 40 million or so 41 million now
Our new peaks are 60 million
Ladies and gentlemen that is exponential so it's got the enemy scared though and they're coming after us
So that's all coming up
also anti-trump dims
exploit vets to attack Trump right after backing NFL's taken me and
They've gone and dug up a few wives of troops that have died and a few congresswomen speaking for the wives
Basically saying Trump hates the military totally fake contrived made-up situation
Also, everybody always talks about the Kurds being the perfect angels in the Middle East and that's because they're a kind of in-between
Group that hasn't been very expansionist
but they have been working with
Some of the other groups in the area to help push out Christians and take over their land as well
So we should remember that there's an article on info wars.com how Kurds used ISIS and Antifa
Well, they came and fought to expel Christians in the Middle East the Antifa came
They're aligned with the Kurds and they enjoy the anti-Christian bent. There's even videos of it
I mean, let me tell you folks left to see Christians as their enemies
And even if a Muslim is gonna kill them of their gay, they don't care that's liberal and trendy
But if you're just a mainline Christian, you've got to be killed
It's just a it's a cult
So that's coming up as well
And then we've got this report coming up Vegas survivor who died suddenly had planned group to expose cover-up
To the middle column on dredgerport.com
That's why I like the drugs design better than info wars because he can have a hundred articles if he wants and stuff
It's important from yesterday can still be on the site if it ties in with some new breaking news
So you can add things that you know add to the research add to the information info wars bombshell story yesterday afternoon
Scrolls off in a few hours and then you can't even find it on her site
But it's a big article by Don Salazar in the middle column of drudge report calm
We're gonna be getting into that as well
But first here is a clip of Trump doing a radio interview
Talking about the fact that you've McCain thinks
That he's just gonna be able to keep coming after him and making stuff up and doing all this
Well that Trump is going to hit back and the story again is up on info wars calm and news wars calm
And is a really important story to Steve Watson article
Trump hits back at McCain be careful at some point. I fight back. It won't be pretty. I think god already struck
old mccainy
Or karma did let's go ahead and play that clip of the president
Do you think it'll be in good shape by the midterms?
I think so. I think we'll have a lot done. We need some votes from some of the republicans that
For some reason they weren't there on health care. They should have been we thought we had it
But john mccain voted no, which was a shocker. We were taking shots at you again yesterday. Well, we it's a shocker and
You know, you heard what he said yesterday senator mccain. Yeah. Well, I hear it and people have to be careful because at some point
I fight back
You know, I'm being very nice. I'm being very very nice, but at some point I fight back and it won't be pretty
All right, mr.
Okay, so that is the chris plant show that that great interview with the president that is powerful
Information right there and again the president has come out called
Mueller a liar to his arrogant face. Mueller acts all powerful and
Struts into congress like he's the president like he got elected
When I'm not on the tarmac of secret Russia secret Russia meetings with the kgb fsb
Transferring uranium for Hillary illegally which they admit when I'm not blocking criminal investigations of the fbi into her and bill
Selling out our military secrets in one third of our uranium. I'm out trying to bring down the elected president defeat this country and calling the president a liar
When he said that Obama didn't call many servicemen. I remember it in the news
Four years ago three years ago that Obama wasn't visiting service people very often and that he wasn't calling all of them
That was a thing that u.s. Presidents had always tried to do before
You obviously can't in world war two or you get hundreds of thousands dead people, but uh, it's a serious situation
They're a pac alliance scum and you just look at Mueller who covered up for the clinton crime syndicate and obama and the bushes and 9 11
And the Saudi arabian connection of the 9 11 stand down that were totally vindicated on now
With the congressional 28 pages. It is simply incredible
And trump was against the iraq war they always lie and say he wasn't I've played the clips here
But again, that's because cnn was and the fake left was and they know how pathetically discredited they are
Here's an la times article. There's also one in the wall street journal
George Soros has pumped 18 billion into open society foundations making it a philanthropic giant
Yeah overthrowing the elected government of ukraine funding the era of spring that killed over a million people mainly christians gays women and priests
And I mean it's incredible. What a wonderful guy. He gets it all from looting getting insider
Trading knowledge the old nazi collaborator. Well
So we're not funded by Soros or any other big corporation. In fact, we know he's funding groups quarter backing trying to shut us down right now
So all I ask you to do and you've always come through is to commit today
To go to info war store.com and get great products. You need water filtration air filtration
Well, we sold out of the air filters high quality supplements
You name it that you and your family need sign up for auto ship
So you don't forget to support each month or every 60 days or every 90 cancel anytime
With the click of a mouse for free get an additional 10 off and we have free shipping and through a plex the
Pill form basically of supermail vitality 50% off never done that
But I want to move it out the door 30% off supermail vitality 50% off brain force the great new tropic
It's all there info wars life.com the biggest sales ever because you're really responding
So as we sell a lot more I can lower the price to fund the operation
But we need to sell a ton to defend ourselves and expand the operation in the face of the global
So I want to thank you all for your support but commit today to support the info war at infowarstore.com
Katie armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market and we've succeeded
With the release of our cqb technology, we now offer the most comfortable concealable rifle threat body armor available
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor and active shooter kits for $129.90 delivered
Check out the promotion sales tab at katie armor dot com c a d i armor dot com
Water is the single most important thing your body needs
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family since 2005
Thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency get to go burky dot com
We're call 877-886-3653
877-886-3653 go burky dot com
Hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile
Unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this
Primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com
This is dan pillard. You know the irs money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you
I've defended people from the irs for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too
I wrote the book on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case
Call 800 34 no tax to finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs
There's never been a better time to solve your problem call 800 34 no tax. That's 800 34 no tax or my website
danpillard.com
Men give your body the support it needs with info wars life prostigar
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance
Info wars life has set out to bring you
Formulations that are not only the highest quality out there
But formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend
The prostigar formula does just that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body
Total support. It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto
lycopene plant sterols
zinc vitamin d3
selenium and copper
Prostigar is something that the men on the info wars crew take every day and from our research
It's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body get prostigar on your side today
Exclusively at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health
Bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100
Organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
Ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
Which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones
You may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2
and bio true selenium at info wars life.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
He never gives up. He's alex jones
Broadcasting from deep in the heart of texas worldwide
Well, you can't give up the stakes are too high the globalists literally want to impoverish us totally control us
And have authoritarian power over humanity. That's what they're craving. They're mentally ill. They're sociopaths
They're psychopaths and that and history shows that america is the experiment and the renaissance is the experiment
Of trying to change that and turn that around but now the bbc and every other state-run media outlet in europe
Is saying the west is inherently evil. We've got more clips of that coming up later
uh vegas survivor who died suddenly has
Had planned a group to expose the cover-up and was organizing the witnesses the fbi took all the footage told folks not to talk
We know it is a coming Mueller
pro-doge of the clinton's that isn't running the cover-up there in vegas
But for this segment and part of the next i wanted to get robert brown on because i've seen his research and
Seen some of the speeches he's given
He is a coordinator and regional field director for the john bursa society covering montana while enuming
North dakota and south dakota. He's best known for his lectures on the constitution
He's produced six of the lectures on dvd series knows the constitution is the solution
Which is gaining popularity nationwide. He and his family reside in billings montana and uh, they're they're battling to
Wake folks up and defend the republic, but i wanted to get him on
to just to
In general talk about his view of the trump revolution other populist constitutional revolutions happening
And and and what he is concerned might derail it or how they might sucker punches because i've had i've seen a lot of people
That i respect and like pushing a constitutional convention
So we should talk about what those are briefly?
As a solution to fully retake the country well, we're already beginning to do it at the state level and culturally and at the federal level
We have the trifecta now as soon as we dig out the republican establishment
So i tend to lean his direction that a constitutional convention is one of the only things the globalist could use
To try to overturn the constitution in the middle of rights, but let's get his
Take on that right now robert brown jbs.org
Uh, what is your expert analysis on this?
My concern here is that in today's political environment
This would be the exactly wrong thing to be doing to be having a article five constitutional convention
I look back to the expertise of james madison
where in his day
He was very concerned about a growing movement in his time to have a constitutional convention to make changes to the new
Constitution they just established
And his main concerns he pointed to was the present temper of america and the present ferment of parties
There was such political discord at the time. He thought that opening up the constitution for another convention
would just lead to chaos
And I have to ask are we in any better circumstance today?
Do we have better political harmony or are we in political discord again?
I think the answer on that one's quite clear
It would be absolute chaos. Of course all the lobbyists would be vying for position on
Getting their ideas into the new changes of the constitution
So in today's political environment, this is a crazy idea
In addition to that, I think justice galia said it best when he said this is not a good century to write a constitution
And I would back that up with my own experience that as I've traveled around the country
Speaking on the constitution. I find most people even those that are politically active are pretty ignorant of what the constitution already says
And so the types of amendments they tend to come up with
Tend to do more damage than good because they are not sure of the constitution
They're cutting out that's right. It was written by
Real by geniuses marveled at around the world by other statesmen and researchers could really
Bind down corruption and gangs and monopolies and try to create a system a platform to empower humanity
Didn't mean they were perfect in their time
But the idea is the bane of globalists the bane of tyrants and it's why we see globalist organizations for decades
Pushing a con con and as you said you see their whole plan to destabilize the country
They would take a con con as the time to launch their their bolstering style revolution that they're already trying to push right now
Absolutely whereas those of us who value liberty
We don't have any need for any changes to the constitution simply enforcing what it already says
would make massive
inroads towards
Stabilizing our country creating financial process. It's like a submarine. It's not broken if the doors are open
You go under water and it floods. You got to close the doors
Yeah, precisely precisely
And so as I look at things here one of the things the founding fathers did point to is in times where the constitution is just being ignored
They never pointed to using article five to make changes to the constitution
What they always pointed to was constitutional enforcement
As a classic example of this the alien and sedition acts of 1798
Which were clear violations of among other things our freedom of speech. It made it illegal to speak against the actions of the president or congress
Madison and jefferson recognizing this was a great encroachment against the clear meaning of the constitution
Didn't say we need to change the constitution
They said we need to enforce the constitution. They came up with the the uh, kentucky and virginia resolution
That's right. You don't need a new constitution just because they're ignoring the old one. They're going to ignore the new one
Precisely I compare this often to
Imagine having a sporting game where none of the refs have ever read the rules and have very little idea of how the game's supposed to be played
And so most of the players have never bothered reading the rules either. They know they don't need to follow
So they say let's write new rules
Right. Oh, let's write new rules. We're not using the ones we already have
That's what's going on with the people in congress
The people are supposed to be as hamilton put it the natural guardians of the constitution
We're the ones that are ultimately the final rep on whether the constitution is being followed or not
And yet none of us know what it says
Nobody generally has much idea of the constitution. I often run constitution quizzes around the country
And you're hard to find anyone that can even get a passing grade on it
Because we're ignorant of the constitution
And as long as we don't know the rules, they don't have to follow them exactly
Let me ask you this question until recently. You usually didn't hear conservatives push
concons
Now I'm I'm hearing more and more from fox news
You know, I've had guests on heard their perspective on how it's needed and I've overall disagreed with them
I mean, I could see how there was a total awakening
You know, we could you know, perhaps have a few new things for things that are more modern
But don't change anything that's old because it's worked so well, but why suddenly are more and more conservatives pushing it?
Unfortunately, I think a lot of them are getting desperate and see this as a great idea
It's being portrayed in ways that I don't think are realistic though
If you were to honestly pull up the anchor of our constitution right now and drift to the center of political thought
Would that move us closer to the mindset of madison or marx?
Versus back in 1787 when it was written
Obviously our nation has moved far in the wrong direction and it's a very dangerous political environment
We don't understand the history
Like the founding fathers did to create the constitution as they did and look
Confederate general stuff. I'm like
Charles Barkley and others I mean who even pays attention to that
But it's being brought up to tear that down and then say oh the american flag flew over slavery
Get rid of it get rid of the constitution and now just a few years later
What we predict is true the left is saying the country's bad the bill of rights is bad the constitution's bad in england
They're saying get rid of the whole government
It's racist too because it actually is protecting the people and has those those rights enshrined that that weren't given by government
But we're only pointed out by the constitutions
This is a direct globalist war on the nation state to replace it with the un system where you have absolutely no rights
Absolutely, you know one thing I often look at here is the left has a tremendous amount to gain
By making changes to the constitution whereas on the right those of us that value limited government
We couldn't do better than the provisions that are currently in the constitution take for example to push for a balanced budget amendment
Tell us about that robert brown of the jbs one of their top constitutional educators out there
Uh over four state area. We're going to come back and get his his take on this and other angles and other attack plans of a con con
stay with us
It's a no-brainer a big burky water filter is the one you need period
You need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride
Pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors best decides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all in only two
Cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent off
ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click one eight seven seven nine nine burky or big burky water filters dot com
That's one eight seven seven nine nine b e r k e y
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well after ten thousand years someone has finally come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun
Which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition
non-toxic and no batteries required
Thirty nine ninety five plus shipping and handling use discount code gcm and receive 15 percent off your purchase at bug assault dot com
Fire your fly swatter and get your bug assault today
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
Info wars biome defense
probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotics trains that are known
To support digestion and intestinal function our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop
What will be the leading probiotic on the market?
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public
So please take advantage of it today support your own health and support the info warm
Thousands of years ago there was a basic form of chivalry
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense
60 years ago when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs
They had drums of their own air raid sirens, but in the 21st century there are silent weapons for quiet war
Pathogens added to the food and water into the lining of plastics that destroy our vitality turn off our hormones
And accelerate our journey towards death. I personally counter this onslaught with antroplex
Anthroplex is designed with known organic concentrated herbs to create the basic
Foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body discover why anthroplex has turned so many heads today
It's time for us to take our bodies back into our own hands and it starts at infowarslife.com with anthroplex
And we're not just going to have to end to the next week the brain force plus special 50% off
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth to the murek chaga mushroom bee pollen and more
Concentrate you talk about next level meal replacement next level compared to whey and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes
It's incredible. My son is growing like a weed using it. It's bigger than I am already 15 incredible
It is amazing infowarslife.com 50% off caveman, but only a few days left
It's about to end and folks the globalist hate it when you do this
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless. We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high
The globalists win. We're all slaves. So don't thank me for what I'm doing. I want to thank you
We're all in this together and when you get the great molon lobby t-shirts
You get the great books and videos you're fighting the tip of the spear again
Visit info or store.com today and commit to helping the info war
You're listening to the alex jones show
You got a business that you didn't build that somebody else made that happen
Defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic
It's alex jones and robert brown
We got gerald salinity to cover the waterfront and take some of your calls coming up the next hour
I need to get into senate judiciary opens probe into obama era russian nuclear bribery case
That's up on info wars.com and news wars.com
I got several other mainstream publications admitting that globalism is in trouble
It's an unelected authoritarian system
It better be in trouble and vegas survivor who died suddenly had planned group to expose cover-up
She was a young 29 year old 28 year old woman. This is crazy. That's coming up, but robert brown
Is a coordinator of the regional field director of the john bert society
Uh covering four states who?
Again is one of the first organizations to expose the globalist conspiracy back in the 1950s when we discovered the cia
Uh had actually put malice tongue into power. That's how the john bert society started people are like what and now it's all been proven
It's all been declassified. Uh, it's just crazy. So he's a historian on this jbs.org getting in the dangers of con con finish up
Uh with the j with the dangers of the con con and then other threats you see
If this was a ball game where you'd see team america team republic versus team soros team globalist and uh
Where in history you think we are right now in your view of trump?
Very good questions where we left off first of all was my
Explanation that really the left has a tremendous amount to gain for making changes to the constitution
Whereas those of us that believe in limited government couldn't do better than
the enumeration of powers for example
On the one hand we have people pushing for a balanced budget amendment
Which would only say congress can't spend more than they take in
Instead of that if we were to get back to congress only spending money on the enumeration of powers
You would see a reduction of over 80 of federal spending. You'd see a surplus annually of over two trillion dollars
So much better and it would also rain the federal government back to what they're actually supposed to be doing within their jurisdiction
So it doesn't have any comparison here what they're trying to accomplish through a convention versus what the constitution already says
but the other thing I want to really focus on is
As constitutionalists originalists conservatives
We really have two angles of attack to get back to the constitution and both of them begin with we the people
We need to understand the constitution and demand adherence to it and as more and more of us do that
We have two angles where we can attack big government and rain it back in the first one is state legislatures
You've heard many times of the concept of state nullification, which is exactly what Madison
And jefferson turned to with the alien and sedition acts
They said the states need to refuse to comply with this in fact
Hamilton and federalist 16 says if the cooperation of state legislatures is not necessary
To give effect to a measure of the union
They have only not to act or act evasively and the measures to feed it and that accounts for a majority of federal programs
They require the states to help implement them
So if the states are concerned of the federal government overstepping their bounds stop helping them that's the first step
But in addition to that angle of attack working through the states and nullification
The other is this people directly holding their members of congress accountable
I cover this in a video that can be found on youtube called the power of 500
Where we found that a team of about 500 people in a congressional district is enough political sway that when they're working coordinated
In holding their elected officials accountable to the constitution
It has a tremendous effect on them
We did that with my own congressman montana a few years ago within a few months
He began following the constitution very well because he felt tremendous pressure from the people
So these are the most powerful tools we have number one the state legislatures number two the people themselves in fact
Madison referred to the people themselves as the ultimate redress of constitutional violations
These are where we really need to be focusing and it starts with the people understanding the constitution
Which is why as you mentioned in my introduction there
We produced a this video series the constitution is the solution to help people become familiar with
the important points of the constitution that they need to know
To rein the federal government back into their jurisdiction
If the federal government were following the constitution the enumerated powers
They wouldn't be involved in most of what they are doing and most of the areas where we feel oppression coming from them
That's ultimately the real solution. I see we're in that transition period where if we work enough
To help educate enough people we can turn things in the right direction
but without that
The statement from thomas jefferson comes to mind if a nation expects to be ignorant and free
It expects what never was never will be there's nothing we can do
To get our nation back on track without the american people
Understanding these principles of liberty and the constitution and that was my next question
Two or three minutes ago listening to you the democrats and the globalists admit they want to dumb down population
They write white papers two plus two equals five common core
They know they can't beat free market. They know they can't beat the constitution. They know they can't beat the weapon
Of the renaissance the flower
Uh of 1798
They know and so they just ruthlessly want to create dependency
And ignorance so you're right you educate the people and in the basics of liberty and freedom and history to paraphrase jefferson and
Uh tyrants will vanish like phantoms at dawn
the problem is
That they know we're winning now
I mean you go back to the 1950s when the john birch society was founded by mainly patriots and government and others
Were actually aware of the plan uh to turn us into a communist slash socialist program
Imagine how small that started and now in 2017. We're beginning to get the upper hand
But you know the winds could change very quickly the enemy could pull off some really dirty tricks. They've already been trying it
We're forcing them to accelerate their authoritarian plan
So I see a major violent collision not by us, but by them in the near future
Soros was giving 500 million a year to try to bring down the u.s
Now he just put 18 billion in his people literally are actively trying to destroy me
um
And everybody else. I mean these are monstrous people. So just getting off the constitution and taking off your professor hat
Looking at trump. Why do they hate him so much? I know he's more of a pragmatist. He's just not out to get america
He believes in some basic americana that shows you how bad hillary would have been that they're just horrified of trump
Where do you see that battle going in the few minutes we have left?
Speaking of george soros, for example, we see george soros funded organizations on both sides of this battle on changing the constitution
We see some of them saying no, we do not want to have an article by convention
We see others that are saying yes, we do like wolf pack
He's playing in funding both sides of this battle. That says something and I think you can do some interesting analysis on what he might be able
to gain from that funding both sides of the battle, but ultimately
This is the the real issue. We the people
Are the greatest power in this country and as you're saying we're starting to see an awakening
This has got them terrified if the american people enough of us wake up their game is over
And that is really our mission our mission is yours as well as the john birch society to wake people up to what is really going on
To have enough people standing up to what's going on
Otherwise and this is really a race to the finish if we can wake up enough people in time
We win if not, they win. That's ultimately what it comes down to
You're absolutely right and
Look hillary had two billion dollars trump had four hundred million. He beat her. We have a few million dollars. They have 18 billion, but
Force feeding us propaganda is backfiring now
And so just because soros is all in throwing a fit with all his stolen money from every scam you can imagine
Currency speculation bringing countries down funding revolutions against elected governments. I mean
They've got indictments out for him in multiple nations
So don't be intimidated folks. This is a desperation move by this monster and his cohorts
We are winning because we're promoting freedom and when you take action and when you speak out and when you get involved
Like robert brown's doing nothing on earth can stop us and most importantly pray to god
For providence. We will defeat this old wicked nazi collaborator. We will defeat the globalist
Their system once identified will never flourish. It's an authoritarian planetary plan. They were so delusional
They thought we were so dumb that no one would ever study the plan and now the work of the john burt society has gone from one person
to
Planetary awakening to the globalist system and that's why they're a very
Small but focused organization and that's why I always support the work. They've done robert brown. Great job. Thank you so much
God bless you
Thank you for having me. We'll be back with the latest news and information Gerald Salente your phone calls and a lot more
I'm alex jones. This is the info war
With a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs
In the history of info war's life
We've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2
Super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
Manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin mineral products
And this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab
Standard that means it's clean. That means it's pure and rest secured
You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
alex jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide
I'm also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100 organic coffee on the planet for more than a decade
My favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern mexico where the tiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown
Arabica beans we have now managed to secure be sought after beans in a highly customized blend
Discover and try a bag of the patriot blend 100 organic coffee at infowarslife.com
This coffee gives you a long smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
That's so many other coffees give me personally hands down. This is my favorite coffee
And it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the tiapas Mexican farmers dropped by the site today
Order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed available in original or with our immune support infusion blend
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee
Available at infowarslife.com
You know someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to america it'll come in the name of liberalism
You're a white man
You're a white man
Welcome to the war room the latest expansion in info wars live broadcasting
We are live weekdays from three to six p.m. Central at info wars.com slash show
And this youtube channel right here that you've landed on please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications
You can follow us on twitter at war room show
We are going to have the most powerful guests the most powerful host
Will he be hearing from alex jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls?
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long the silent majority is no longer silent
This is the war room
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with emmerich's essentials
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com
including non nano spf 30 zinc oxide sunscreen
Deet free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash
Uncented body wash tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant
Emmerich's essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified usda
Made with organic our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality
Feel good about using emmerich's essentials start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new emmerich's essentials line of organic products. That's infowarstore.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
Defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex jones
Vegas survivor who died suddenly had planned group to expose cover-up. We're gonna be getting to that and more
Jaguars president apologizes for team kneeling during national anthem in london
And meanwhile mark faber a super high-level economist one of the smartest guys out there one of the best records of predicting things
There was all this criticism of western europe and saying whites are inherently bad
And he just basically said thank god, you know, the united states got settled by europeans because
There's a civilization here and he got fired from his company
Now look
I wouldn't say something like that because history is a lot more complex than that
But the truth is everybody was barbarous
But then you've got the bbc and two pieces i played just yesterday on the same show saying whites are inherently evil and bad
I mean it's pure nazi ideology but flipped around
So that's coming up
because
If you want to see what it was really like because I read a lot of history books were written about people that were there
French trappers british trapper people with educations that wrote the first in the camps go watch the movie rather than
That's what it was like
The native americans would say if you don't join us to help kill the other group
We're gonna kill you and i'm not saying they were bad. That's just how the whites acted
The whites 2000 years ago in britain were human sacrificing people
2000 years ago the native americans in mexico were doing it same stuff same behavior. They said bigger pyramids in mexico
What's mexico today, I mean
But there's something different after the dark ages
Where we were burning people that knew about herbs or science
The renaissance came 550 years ago
So the white man was just as barbarous and backwards as anybody else
Except the chinese were more advanced. They were very barbarous though in the japanese
But something happened it was the christian ethos met liberty and
sort of valuing human life and it took a process
Of hundreds of years to start achieving what the west has done the west trailblazed human liberty
So yes, I say thank god for the renaissance that took root in europe
And I don't think phaber put the historical
Accuracy on it
I'd say he spun it into a more reactionary vein instead of just directly looking at history and what really happened
But there is a war on history going on right now. I mean it's like
The city of z i've actually read mainline history books about what really went on at that time none of it's true
england didn't believe that there was ancient pyramids in the americas
They'd already found him hundreds of 300 years before 400 years before
The whole movie's like those savages can't build anything. They're backward scum
Just to make it's just and none of it's even historically true
And then one of the famous explorers is a coward and all this other stuff. It's all sjw made up stuff
It's just phony is the justice league
I mean you can't even watch historical movies now and not be bombarded with this weird white knight
Virtue signaling crap
So you're gonna get phaber on the other side saying well, I'm not against whites. Thank god they settled america
I mean if whites are so bad
Why is everybody trying to get into the countries that whites built people say other people built those absolutely every group exploits other groups
No one ever denied that the west for 550 years has been trying to stop it
Go to another country see how barbarous they are. That's all I'm saying
See I feel so good about myself. I don't need to look down on other people. So I feel powerful
But I see racism and cultural warfare from the globalist left these ruthless corporations playing us all off against each other
That's what the cia does with anthropologists and sociologists is go in and study groups
That's where they send in first to a country. They're going to take over for decades to learn everything and to have their professors write books
scholarly tomes
on the infrastructure of the area
And the cultural systems to divide and conquer them later and I'm going to get more into that in a moment
America and our republic is under attack
Because the globalists know that a free open society the idea of America
Is absolutely at loggerheads with the globalist system. They're trying to build
That's scientifically directed a technocracy totally authoritarian that is completely cold-blooded
absolutely anti-loving
Altruistic and committed to total complete engineering of the human species
And mass culling of 90 of the world population. That's what ted turner. That's what bill clinton. That's what bill gates
That's what george soros. That's what all of these groups are pushing
That is their set destiny and overarching plan
and now we have george soros
coming out who normally gives a couple billion dollars a year globally to overthrow free and open societies
And cause culture wars and 500 million a year on average to try to destabilize the us and cause race and cultural war
He has now bellied up to the bar and put 18 billion dollars of his stolen loot
Into the kitty
That's all in
I
That is completely and totally all in
To try to overthrow the americana 2.0 rising from the ashes
1776 part 2 that we're witnessing
Trump's not perfect, but he believes in the republic. He believes in the free market
He believes in empowering the average person and having a true
competition based system and because of that the globalists had already thought they had full control of america and then the world
Are in total panic mode in an existential battle seeing their entire authoritarian world government
crumble and collapse in front of them and so george soros funds media matters cnn msnbc all these legal groups
and other operations that are
Uh openly suing trump thousands of times setting up and suing us as well
Trying to sabotage our suppliers trying to shut down our support base trying to get us kicked off radio and tv
Trying to have us criminally investigated trying to have us shut down
But I have the republic behind me
And common sense and awake population to defend
Against you. I'm not those poor sad hard work in eastern european peasants that you helped round up for four years
When you sent them to death camps soros and you thought you could bring down america
You're gonna find out we're not gonna go so easy
So he's 18 billion dollars in to this fight right now
And he thinks he's gonna break your will
But here's the good news hillary had almost three billion dollars trump had about 400 500 million
But he had the people and so he won and so this force feeding of his culture war
And trying to buy off groups. He isn't gonna help him
It's gonna blow up in his face because no army can stop an idea whose time has come
And he made pay off anderson cooper to say he wasn't a nazi collaborator
But we've got him on tv saying he was a nazi collaborator. So i'm asking listeners and viewers of this transmission
Now more than ever to understand when you spread the articles when you spread the videos when you spread the live
Feeds at info wars.com forward slash show or facebook google twitter or other platforms or you spread the podcast
Or you spread other systems
It is funding a revolution globally against these technocrats
And when you buy the products at infowar store.com you are involved in a revolutionary act against these globalists because pennies
Against their thousands of dollars and millions
Against their billions is all ready defeating them and will defeat them the fact that he's gonna have to put in
Hundreds of times a year what he put in previously of his stolen loot just kills him
So i'm asking you as the enemy ups their power against us
As the enemy comes in like a flood the spirit of the lord will lift up a standard against it
And info wars is imperfect
But we are seen by the enemy as the standard as one of the main standard bearer operations against them
And that's why we're under attack. So rally around the flag my friends and financially support us today
Commit get great deals on supplements get great deals on t-shirts
Get great deals on water filtration and and non-gmo heirloom seeds and high quality organic copy and so many
other great products at info wars life dot com
info wars store dot com or triple 8 253
3139 and we've got to end it in a matter of days 50 percent off our best-selling neutropic. That's our brain pill
20 percent now more in each bottle of brain force 50 percent off anthroplex
That's the pill form of supermal vitality and a bunch of other specials that are about to end at info wars life dot com
Or triple 8 253 3139
again
If you simply commit and fund us and sign a ferato ship 10 off additionally and remember to fund us each month or every 60 days
Or whatever you click that will make this operation continue strong in the face of the enemy and we will defeat the scum
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
Seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body
That's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the usa
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war
It is a classical 360 win
This is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get
You owe it to yourself. You owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
That patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of america
To reignite those rush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together
We're changing the world now. It's time to change our bodies with z shield and info wars life dot com
Not a group you developed living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system
But right now we're dealing with massive
Parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees
Spreading disease around we have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it. You have the neem in there
You have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year. All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today
It just came back in yesterday living defense info wars life dot com and folks you can't lose full of stuff
It's great for your body period and
You support the broadcast info wars live.com. Thank you doctor group from the global healing center. Thank you so much for all your work
Sir on this great product
You're listening to the alex jones show
Oh
Coming up ladies and gentlemen, Gerald Solente is going to be joining us for the
Balance of the transmission or 54 minutes and I intend towards the end of the hour
It also opened the phones up so folks can talk to him the globalists have tried to launch a culture war
It's failing. They're now trying to launch one in England saying that their government and their history is evil
They are trying to cover up the mass shooting that happened two and a half weeks ago. That's fully imploding
Uh, just everything the globalists do turns into pure garbage now
and on top of that
Now trump has come out called Mueller a liar. Mueller was the backman for uranium
Mueller killed criminal investigations at the fbi into hillary not just transferring uranium
But also weapons components when she was the head of the state department. I mean, we've already known this but to see everything
We broke a year ago
But even more info come out and to see the day after hannity covered it
Senator grassley talking about it and sessions saying that yes, there is a criminal investigation of hillary
Wow how the worm has turned
Right down the few minutes we have left in this short segment. Let's go ahead and go to this article
Vegas survivor. This is an info wars.com article
Vegas survivor who died suddenly
had planned
An organization to expose the cover-up. She was going to create an organization of survivors
who were going
To expose what they really saw well the video survives the videos the fbi didn't get and then a race off people's phones
then you've got the
Timeline changing five or six times you've got video of shooters down the road and eyewitnesses to it
And all the military experts including military experts
that testify in court
Munitions experts acoustics experts clearly shooters at mandalay
Inside and out we first broke that
clearly shooters other areas
Not just at mandalay, but at other casinos
A woman who died days after surviving the ill-fated october first country music festival in las vegas. She lived there perfect them to get to her
Wanted to organize a group a survivors group in order to flush out the strange event
Who they didn't want that because they had credibility and they had standing in court
Facebook conversations reveal and you've got screenshots of all of them on info wars.com by the way the fbi erased those as well
kimberley
Shomal 28 died suddenly on october night at her apple valley california residents
She also lived in vegas part of the time five days after posting her version of events to facebook
The day's following the massacre fringe reached out to shomal over october fourth post in which she describes someone setting off firecrackers near the venue
And detailed being chased by numerous people
concluding at one point there was more than one gun firing hundred percent
More than one and of course we had witnesses saying they were told to get out
You're going to be dead in 45 minutes then 45 minutes later the shooting starts and people inside mandalay
Saying that there had been people shooting inside that later came out too
Everything the people told us everything our fbi sources told us is coming true. You've got a protg of muhler
Who was then appointed to head up vegas by comey right before he left
And we've got federal sources saying this guy is as bad as the day is long
One longtime friend of shomal's who asked to remain anonymous provided info wars screenshots
Have a conversation he'd have with her in which she
Indicated planning to organize group of survivors ordered to piece together things
That's info wars.com adan salazar article
Breaking it all down you can read her last photos and last words
She wanted you to investigate. Will you investigate?
You can share my comment for sure she wanted to say to everybody they wanted to organize a group to find out the truth
Others have been
Dying suddenly you weren't even shot as well
So they were planning to blame this on the second amendment all our intel says it's an isis attack
We've got british intelligence head coming out and saying they're seeing exponential islamic attacks
Well, yeah, you bring in record numbers of unvetted military aged men who invaded syria into your countries
You're gonna get attacked the government's answer is of course take all of our rights
That makes it a false flag. They brought in the groups. They knew what attack gerald salente the trends forecasters straight ahead
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best-selling product brain force
Now brain force plus there's 20 percent more in each bottle and we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic
Manufacturer here in the united states that we've been able to get it for less
So i'm offering for the first time ever 50 percent off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is
Blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already you're stocking up. They know how great it is
A whole bunch of organic natural healthy known
Neutropics and if you want good clean focused energy then brain forces for you and you're supporting the broadcast
At the same time. It's a good deal at thirty nine dollars. It's nineteen
Ninety six at info wars life dot com or simply call toll free
Triple eight two five three three one three nine
Crashing through the lies and disinformation
It's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
I'll tell you this everything the globalist media pushes is more and more blowing up in their face
trendsresearch.com best-selling author researcher
Trends forecaster Gerald Salente joins us for the hour. I'm not going to go into his whole bio or how he's
Basically been in all the media you can imagine
Uh, the the bottom line is I want to get his world view about where we are historically
I remember what was it five years ago or so? They were saying the economy was dead
America was over
Everything was done for
And he said well, I'm going to double down and believe in americana. I'm going to go buy
At a strategic point the four corners in kinks in new york where the revolution first got hatched even before
Uh, what we saw happened at the green dragon in uh, or what we saw there, uh in
Philadelphia at the constitution hall
And so he doubled down. He said down the road. You know, who knows what with the stock market
But he said I believe in a reassurgence of americana and quality and main street and people waking up
And so now I wouldn't say we're winning but we're in the thick of the fight and all over the world from austria
To brazil to australia to the uk to here to catalonia people are fighting back for independence
Doesn't mean they're always winning but every time they fight back they get stronger each time is trump perfect
No, but you know a man by his enemies the globalist hated because he's trying to be president
He doesn't want one side of deals that screw america over and just the idea of that that america wouldn't have the highest corporate tax in the world
By design to ship our jobs in china that we wouldn't ban coal when everybody else has it
That we wouldn't be involved in economic sabotage of our own nation
As the globalists sell out america the world for their own power
That's why the enemies of the country hate trump so much and it's why he's so loathed by ignorant people and by parasites
That I have to defend him even more because in this historic time
I want to be up there signing my john handcock my alexander jones on the declaration of independence
The biggest and the boldest because make no mistake. We are risking our lives our sacred honor our treasure our families in this great endeavor and
I just want to beat the globalist
But if we're successful when the next history transmissions are written
And transmitted I guess directly into our brains on distant star systems
Uh, your progeny my progeny will look back on this time as the deciding crossroads gerald solente great to have you here
Thank you. It's always great being on with you. Um, I'd like to pick up what you're saying about globalism
And the dangers of it and how it is really going in reverse in a lot of places
Except here in in the united states. You mentioned what's going on in austria. They just had an election last week and the
Freedom party came out of nowhere and and now they're somewhere
You saw what happened in germany a couple of weeks ago with angela merkel getting trounced by the afd the alternative for deutschland
You see this secessionist movement in california
And whether you like him or not not our kind of guy because he's a Rothschild boy
Macron over in france a new party
The point that i'm making is that they're very fearful and they're saying it
Here's a quote from wolfgang schwaveler who was the former german finance minister
Until merkel just got trounced. Here's what he warned the people about. I want everyone to listen very carefully
There's no chance germany will ever relapse
internationalism
The afd's voters. That's the alternative for deutschland voters were dissatisfied
Felt excluded were angry about perceived
Injustice and worried about how the world was changing
I want to comment on this because his words are very important
How dare we should relapse internationalism? How dare those germans want to hang on to their ethnicity?
Their culture and their heritage. How dare the italians the french
The americans or any other culture
Wants to hang on to what made them who they are. How dare they respect their ancestors?
And the cultural greatness that made them who they are when they should become globalized
This is the arrogance the words that are being spoken
But being ignored and you listen to his words again
Devoters were dissatisfied felt excluded and angry
Felt excluded a wolf gang. Could you add this up? You were a finance minister
You could probably do a little bit of addition. You got eight people that have more money
Than half the world's population according to oxfam felt excluded
We're all getting screwed by the multinationals wolf gang who you suck up to and who they pay you off to
Like the clinton's and all the rest. I want you to get back on this amazing break now. But let me just add to what you're saying
It's not like it's some natural migration of people and cultures coming together or something
It's global mega corporations that are tax exempt above the law saying we're bringing in groups to politically control you
We're going to raise your taxes exempt ourselves at the uu level from the very taxes and then dictate to you
How you're going to live your life? We're going to bring in 10 million people 80 percent of which are military age men
And then tell german women don't wear skirts and ban from switzerland
To germany you name it. They're having uh, uh, sweden having to ban outdoor beer drinking and october fest because the radical muslims will kill you
I mean imagine saying submit to an outside
anti-liberal ideology
Allied with a bunch of megabanks with george soros funding it breathing down your neck
In some mass cuckolding of europe. I mean, it's just crazy the arrogance of outside megabanks coming in
Saying we're going to totally dominate you
It is and that's what's going on and look what's going on you're talking about taxes
Look at this bs with amazon. They're they're bragging over here in jersey that they're going to give them
You know all this dough as tax breaks. What is this guy worth?
You know 86 billion dollars and we got to give amazon tax breaks. Nobody gives me tax breaks
Oh, you're going to create jobs. Yeah, I got a great job for you go to college
get a degree in shipping
And packaging and you could get a job at amazon and be in debt 40 000
But then amazon admits that they've got robots that are coming in the next few years to replace you
And apple's got the worst slave factories with suicide nets 17 hour work days where they force drug and abort babies
But it's okay because they're liberal and they gave money to black lives matter
And then you got a a jerk like christie bragging
That they're giving them all these tax breaks let any other state beat it. I got one for you
How about fox con the one over there in wisconsin from taiwan that makes apple computers
They're going to give them something like, you know, uh, a three billion dollar tax break something ridiculous
Hold on jerry. We got to go to break, but you're absolutely right and let's not forget
Bezos gets a dollar 48 us taxpayer subsidy on all the packages
He ships a little thing. He got congress to do so folks again when you order from amazon
You're literally cutting your own throat. They're even going to bank. We're up walmart
We're going out to break with zero salinity on fire, but since you mentioned it. Here's McCain arrogantly talking about ugly nationalism
At some elitist meeting with we the people projected behind him when he's saying we the people at the tpp
Unelected the secret will have more power than congress and trump comes along
Destroys tpp moves it back to congress and they've got the nerve to sit there and claim that they're with we the people
You mean we the globalist above the law megabanks. Here is john not long for this world mccain
To abandon the ideals we have advanced around the globe
To refuse the obligations of international leadership and our duty to remain the last best hope of earth
For the sake of some half-baked spurious nationalism
Cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats and solve problems. He's got funded isis
Spurious nationalism
See they're saving the world though. They're the globalist. They're going to tell us how to live our lives
They're going to have jumbo jets, but you can't have a call
That's what this little bomb is saying. They're the elitist
Oh, thank you mccain. Thank you
He says on he says unpatriotic as an attachment to any other tired dogma
Of the past that americans consigned to the ash cheek the ash heap of his americans consigned america to the ash heap
You hear that and can't even get it out of his mouth
Go to hell mccain. We'll be right back
Heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you
But the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops
Horror circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america
My blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm feeling everyone how much healthier I feel
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent
Should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardio vascular system healthy
Order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305
That's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
In an emergency you need a fire now, but what if the wood is wet?
No problem for insta fire our non-tossic fire starter packs lights wet wood floats and can even burn on water or in any weather
Sustains winds up to 30 miles per hour and each pouch weighs only 1.75 ounces need an emergency or camp stove
Get the insta fire inferno stove that boils 20 ounces of water in under three minutes with controllable heat and temp from 425 to 1500 degrees
Pre-shipping go to insta fire.com and use discount code radio 30 at the three times for 30 off your order insta fire fire in an instance
Dr. Carolyn Dean wants you to have a free chapter of her new book the magnesium miracle second edition and it's available at magmiracle.com
In your free chapter Dr. Carolyn Dean explains how magnesium is essential to support the structure and function and overall health of your body
Your free chapter is your guide to learn how to support your heart, bone, metabolic, lung and mental health with this powerful mineral
The magnesium miracle second edition is available on amazon, but right now get a free chapter at magmiracle.com
spelled magmiracle.com
Please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality
Products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you choose auto ship before checkout
We give you 10 off on your order at info or short.com number two
You're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers
number three
We're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month
Just go to info wars store.com select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order
As you know i coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature in info wars life.com
This is a sure win 10 off on auto ship win win win at info wars life.com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
We're not just going to have to end of the next week the brain force plus special 50 off
I'm gonna have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth to the merechaga musher and bee pollen
And more concentrate you talk about next level meal replacement next level compared to whey
And it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes. It's incredible
My son is growing like a weed using it. It's bigger than I am already 15 incredible
It is amazing info wars life.com 50 off caveman, but only a few days left
It's about to end and folks the globalist hate it when you do this
Where the tip of the spear because we're fearless
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high the globalist when we're all slaves
So don't thank me for what I'm doing. I want to thank you. We're all in this together
And when you get the great bolan lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos
You're fighting the tip of the spear again. Visit info wars store.com today and commit to helping the info war
You're listening to the alex jones show
Live from the info wars.com studios. You're listening to the alex jones show
The war was lost
The treaty signed so the globalists think it's in style to destroy nation states
And it isn't that the uk or europe or the us are perfect or brazil or anything else
The globalists are trying to overthrow as well right now. We have populist uprisings. It's that people set them up
They weren't perfect, but they were post-colonial most of them and they were trying to have basic human liberty
They got set up during the renaissance
Before globalism, which is just a new form of colonialism, but a technocracy based system in their own words
And now notice you've got mccain speaking out against the nationalism
With the iconography of we the people the constitution behind him
But no american flags and remember
At the dnc the first three days of the week. They had no american flags
And again, i don't worship the american flag, but what are they trying to replace it with this globalism
That just comes out of nowhere that that these elites just make up top trends forecaster jerry solente is our guest trends research
Dot com but look at the nfl commissioner
He's on fox right now. He's having a press conference. We put it on screen the nfl symbol is an american flag
But see now they won't kneel
Or they won't stand during it. They want to kneel
To make a big issue out of it
And again, it lets americans understand. Wow, there's an outside corporate force
That really wants to get rid of the nation state and
Basically demonize it and you have to ask yourself. Why are they doing that because they're replacing it with something
Well, you better find out what that something is. They've already looted the third world. They set up
Factories where they have suicide nets that charles solente was mentioning. They mean business. They're totally and completely ruthless
Well, he came out three weeks ago and told trump
You disrespected the nfl when trump said you disrespected our veterans our country
You have a right to
Say you hate america if you want to the difference is you don't work for a company go out there dearing it
Then be disrespectful and then whine when you've made 200 million dollars like capronik
And then when you have two bad seasons wonder why nobody will hire you so you sue claiming you're being discriminated against because you're black
When the nfl is 90 black
So again, it's an example of globalism
Trying to destroy america and actually waking america up. They thought they had intimidated us
We were asleep their intimidation now. They're slapping us in the face
Woke us up. That's my view charles solente. What do you think about these battles?
They're losing hollywood collapsing ratings down numbers down nfl collapsing mainstream news collapsing
Everything they're doing collapsing now that they tried to force full domination on us
Well, the nation's collapsing, you know, I was listening to this song, you know, california dreaming when were you going when I was coming on the air
And I was thinking about it
there's no uh
There's no songs about the cities anymore, you know going to kansas city. She's my tallahassee lassie
Oh, I shouldn't say that. Maybe I'd be sexist if I sang tallahassee lassie, you know
But there's no songs about the cities anymore. I was just thinking about it when you know, chicago my kind of town new york new york
We've lost the identity
Of who we are
It's time. It's part of that
Globalism and multinationalization
We shouldn't have any certain qualities of where we grew up who we are and what
Represented us as we grew up. Don't even think about that. Just turn into
Totally blank
And that's what they're shoving down our throat again. We were growing up all these songs
About where what city you wanted to go to?
Because it was unique. It had its own culture. It had its own style gone
Gone into nothing. Oh by the way, everyone listening out there, you know, I know I've been out in your place
I know how hard you people work
Put your money where your mouth and ears are everyone listening. It's not a free ride
Info wars isn't one of these non for profits
You know all these people that like these universities that pay all these coaches and presidents
Millions of dollars and don't pay any taxes
This station has to stay alive by supporting them like we do with our trends journal and our information
So I put my money where my mind in my mouth is and I buy info wars products
By the way, Gerald, I know while you're raising this people should support you as well trendsresearch.com
We're under attack the dirty tricks. We don't want to get into the air. You've been through it as well
They really try to stop us because we're effective and you've written books about
Bringing back local economies bringing back true diversity
Globalism in diversity lets the corporate board claim that they represent all the cultures like the warden in a prison
And then they direct society
But the final frontier we have to fight them is voting with our dollars voting with our feet voting with our reviews
And that's what you're letting people know is
George Soros may have just put 18 billion in trying to kill the trump agenda
That's like literally 50 60 times. We normally does a year or more
That's a sign of desperation Gerald. Do you agree? Oh, it is. Look what they're doing in Hungary. They threw Soros out
You know, they're trying to stop them
You know, look Alex the only way this country is really going to change as I see it
And you can see it around the world is what we talked about with the AFD party in germany the freedom party in austria
There's a chinko stella the five star movement in italy on and on we need a new party in america
We need a new way the democrats and the republicans are nothing more than the bloods and the crypts
Murderers and you called for this for 20 years. Is it trump taking over the republican party?
No siding sometimes with other groups. They're basically breaking their back partially
What trump represents is the perfect analogy. He is no party
Both parties are against him in so many ways, which is showing the opportunity for a new way now
He's not aligned with either of them. That's why neither of them support him
I'll be honest with you when you were always harping on this
I'd say look, I don't think it's going to happen at this time
But I think trump is an example and all the special elections we've seen
Any mainline democrats losing any mainline republicans losing the people want true populism from the left and the right
But the power structures fighting it fighting it fighting it instead of at least embracing it on the surface. They're so arrogant. They're not
No, they're not because it's against their interest because who are they?
Prestitudes they get paid by their corporate johns and their washington whore masters
I mean look at this stuff coming out. I just read about this guy jake tapper
He used to go out with monica lawinsky writing that disgusting stuff about her and this guy shoot his mouth off with this arrogant attitude
Look who we have over here in new york with this qualmo chris qualmo
I remember him when I said to all the tv shows they bring him around with his little aides
He was talking about you know sports and pop culture and now he's this arrogant guy born on third base and 30 in a home run
He'd be nowhere if his old man wasn't mario
Just like his brother andrew the privileged prince would be nowhere
And they're still arrogant even though they have a shadow of their former audience and her plow in imploding
They get more and more arrogant. Do they not know what losers they are?
No, because again, you know, they've never had a work in their lives. It's all been given to them for free
I'm gonna ask us when we come back
Your prediction politically how this is gonna go the different breaks. What happens if they assassinate trump?
The so-called left wants a revolution in october a november 4th is when they launched their main attack
They're promising violence nationwide. I think what we saw
um
In vegas was part of that the deep state covered it up because trump isn't in control of his own fbi yet
And we'll talk the whole russia gait situation with gerol salente now
We know why hillary was saying trump was a ruski because ladies and gentlemen her muller all of them were literally russian assets
They had totally sold out
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices find your happiness with pure soap?
These all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used buy in bulk get a 12
36 or 48 months supply or get items individually and still save big
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now earth friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best
Happiness is five star soap.com. Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at five star soap.com or call
1-800-340-7091 for a catalog calben soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps
That are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils
See their full selection of soaps at five star soap.com. That's five star soap.com or call
1-800-340-7091 for a catalog
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a
revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients
Used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
Our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health
Benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com
Refresh your breath with imrex essentials organic mouthwash
Honor formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant
refreshing taste
Imrex essentials mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol
chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath
His antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 bucks water
Imrex essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores. Go organic today with imrex essentials
Visit infowarstore.com to learn more. That's infowarstore.com
Men give your body the support it needs with info war's life prostaguard
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance
info war's life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas that you can use
On a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend
The prostaguard formula does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto
lycopene plant sterols
zinc vitamin d3
selenium and copper
Prostaguard is something that the men on the info war's crew take every day and from our research
It's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body. Get prostaguard on your side today
exclusively at infowarslife.com
That's infowarslife.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
For every question they don't want you to ask
He has the answer. They don't want you to hear. He is alex jones
Well, I wouldn't say I have the answer to every question notice. I didn't write that liner
I got the cruise being nice
But nine times out of ten. I have the answer
Because the globalist big miscalculation is acting like your idiots
They thought they would build a big giant private corporate world government
Exempt themselves from the taxes the regulations
give themselves
diplomatic immunity
and then
Once the planetary regime was in place
Once they transferred all the nation-state power by the leaders to that new global power in this revolution
of the bureaucrats against
The nations and their peoples they would then bring in a worldwide autocratic authoritarian system. They call
a technocracy
managing and running our lives in a planned
civilization
Where we are a permanent underclass and they are a permanent overclass and that from all their different books and white papers
from Zbigniew Brzezinski to john p. Holdren
Is the
altruistic or liberal or loving of you
If you get into why the future doesn't need us
And you get into what ray Kurzweil and google and others are talking about they go. Oh, you're lucky
We don't just step on you like you're a bug once we merge with machines
We're just going to be the new superhumans and you're all going to be dead
That's ted turner. That's bill clinton. That's uh david rockefeller. That's
Pull it up. Even abc news reports oakford wimpfrey went to secret meetings with the rockefellers
Just six years ago to discuss
exterminating
80 to 90 percent of the world population folks. I know this stuff sounds crazy. They're the crazy ones
Now even though they'd ever get those plans into place
It shows in a 21st century world view what old elites would do when they got inbred and crazy
And we just start wars or start killing people or thinking they were god
It's called megalomania and the old evil nazi collaborator
George soros knows mainstream media is totally discredited. That's why in 1998
60 minutes had him on he bragged and said i'm not ashamed to be in a nazi. I did what I had to do to survive
In fact, it was free market. I filled an itch. I'm proud of it
In 2017 he has
His minion
Get up there from the cia anderson cooper and say it never happened. Alex shone's made it up despite the fact
We have the clip that shows how weak they are. They know they're exposed. So just tell bigger lies talk about hitler and the big lie theory
so
when you financially support us by buying supplements and t-shirts and
Books and videos and all the hottest titles you name it
To help wake yourself and others up more it funds us to continue to reach out to others and have other great brains on the broadcast like
Gerald Salente
And so that's why it's a revolutionary act to financially support this broadcast
And we've got specials that are ending in the next few days 50 off brain force is the known
Highest quality healthy organic compounds for healthy. You're more active focused brain
20 percent now and more in each bottle
We're doing 50 off not because it's not selling we sold so much of it's gotten so popular that
I ordered the biggest order ever of it
So I could do it 50 off to see if my free market idea would work to sell even more at lower prices
Make you even happier and fund ourselves to expand a win-win. It's worked. I thought we had a two month supply
It'll be sold out in a couple weeks at this rate
So I've got it in the special in the next few days and then put it back to regular price until more comes in
And that is going to end in the next few days
Secret 12 40 percent off about to end survival shield x2 40 percent off about to end bio tricillinium for mustard seeds strong strong
Formulation 40 percent off the new specials that will continue for a week or more and throw plexer until they sell out 50 percent off
That's the dry form of supermal vitality and supermal vitality 30 percent off
highest quality known organic high quality herbs ladies and gentlemen
That have passed the strict almost impossible california standards
Until we know someday what we've talked about. We know they're going to do but the point is ladies and gentlemen
It's all available at info wars live.com info wars store.com or triple eight two five three three one three nine
And again, Gerald Salente has his trends journal. He has his free updates
You can sign up for and get as well. It is critical an absolute act of war against the globalist
I know that you already know all about this stuff
But ladies and gentlemen your friends your family your neighbors don't we're in a war people are ready to wake up now
So please support the broadcast. Please get the word out trends research dot com
Gerald we've only got about five minutes left in this segment
I've got another one. I want to get into political correctness and culture war with you
But instead of me asking some of the questions here. What else is front and center on your trends your predictions?
the whole trump era
Different possible futures that you see and what happens if they kill president trump something they're publicly trying to organize
well going on to the the future and what we see is that
We're talking about the populist movements, you know our method of tracking trends is called global nomic
It means making connections between different fields and we're talking about populism and nationalism
One thing to really consider
And again the motto is think for yourself is what's going on with these crypto currencies
This is real. This isn't dying
It's an expression of people's disgust with the fiat currencies and the globalized central bankers
This is like my generation. It was buying gold. I bought my first
gold buy at 187 50 dollars an ounce
And and and now today the millennials their gold is cryptocurrency
It all ties together
We're looking at a breakdown of a fight among the people against the system
And this is one of the ways of breaking the system because if you break the bank, then you're really in trouble
That's why you got a guy like jayme diamond screaming out that bitcoin is a fraud and after all
He should know what a fraud is
He he's saying it because it's going to put the banks out of business. That's why the banks don't like it
Number two very important, and I'm sure your audience knows it but for those that may have not heard it
China is now
Accepting when they buy iranian oil or russian oil
Instead of paying them in petro dollars the us dollars that were based on oil
Prices they're paying them in yuan
And saying you can cash the yuan in for gold
This is big now. Remember the deal of the petro dollar was made between
Nixon and the saudi king back in about 1974
Now they're saying to saudi arabia the chinese
No, we're not going to buy your oil and pay it in dollars. We're going to pay you
In yuan. They're telling the Saudis this
And they may buy five percent of ramco the big saudi company that they're going to the oil field
The giant oil company of saudi arabia that you're going to put on the market
They may buy five percent of this the reason i'm mentioning this
If the petro dollar dies
The us dollar will crash and so too will the economy
This is a reality. This isn't just speculation. It's happening in front of us. So what does that mean?
Well, the crypto currencies they're trying to stop those in a lot of countries. So what will people buy when they're
Value with a fiat currencies dies?
gold and silver
Continue with the breton woods agreement and the petro dollar
What's going to happen china doesn't want to deal with dollars anymore
So they're not taking the petro dollar. They're not taking us bucks. They're giving so when you're buying your oil
I'm chinese. I'm buying your saudi arabian oil. I'm not going to pay you in bucks. I'm paying you in my yuan
But you could cash my yuan into gold
So it's becoming very attractive because once upon a time
You could cash the dollar in for gold
But you can't do that anymore. And by the way, let me point this out
The university of texas and hundreds of other big institutions while gold went down for a while now
It's gone back up some have been buying billions of dollars of it. So the elites while telling you don't get gold
They're the ones that are actually getting into it
Yeah, and again if this petro dollar goes down, you know the us dollar crashes
You'd be going to Walmart's with a wheelbarrow of money
Like they used to do in weimar republic germany. That's right. Let's talk more about the dark side of the economy
We're hoping things get better and we're rooting for it. But what happens if the globalists are able to stop trump?
We'll talk about it with gerol salente
We're not just going to have to end of the next week the brain force plus special 50 off
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth to marik chaga
Mushroom bee pollen and more concentrate. You talk about next level meal replacement next level compared to whey
And it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes. It's incredible
My son is growing like a weed using it. It's bigger than I am already 15 incredible. It is amazing in full wars life.com
50% off caveman, but only a few days left. It's about to end and folks the globalist hate it when you do this
Where the tip of the spear because we're fearless. We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high
The globalists win. We're all slaves. So don't thank me for what I'm doing. I want to thank you. We're all in this together
And when you get the great molan lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're fighting the tip of the spear again
Visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the info war
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival skills
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
Biotrue selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health
Biotrue selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure
Deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
Which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones
You may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and
Biotrue selenium work together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
Discover the power of survival shield x2 and Biotrue selenium at infowarslife.com
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense
probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven
To improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains
That are known to support digestion and intestinal function
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market
To secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
And get started supporting your digestive system naturally
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public
So please take advantage of it today support your own health and support the info war
Protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emricks essentials
Perfect for face and body this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection
We source ingredients from nature producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins
This natural lotion contains 21 zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used and we do not use nano particles
The larger the particle the safer it is for your body
The organic oils help hydrate the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin
Emricks essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life
Naturally protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emricks essentials
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit info wars store.com and learn more about the new spf 30 sunscreen lotion
You're listening to the alex jones show
You are listening to an info wars dot com front line report if you are receiving this transmission
You are the resistance, you know normally if three people been shot dead and others have been shot
There was a guy on the run in a major city. You'd hear about it
But not of ease of black guy who's a muslim
Maryland state police release ID of at-large shooter raheed la bieb prince
Armed and dangerous
Now let's curl down and read some of this article. We're going to post it up on info wars dot com
There you go, uh raheed la bieb is suspected of shooting five people in Maryland business park
This morning
Five people were shot three have been reported dead. He remains at large and considered armed and dangerous the story's developing
But of course it's not on cnn. It's not on fox. It's not because
Well, that's why they shut down the whole story in vegas folks
Because when there's an islamic attack
It doesn't happen. Why are they bringing all these unvetted islamist in the center of the country?
I'm going to ask Gerald salente that the moment also get into the dark side of an economy imploding and where he sees all of that unfolding
Uh, and but but but first I want to get into this
Uh, there is a report out where an economist and in financial researcher that I know it has been a pretty smart guy
And I know that Gerald has at least I've seen written some nice things about
Mark fauber resigns that were saying thank god white people populated america
Now let let's be clear about this
You can read his quote
With all these black lives matter groups and the bbc and others saying whites are inherently bad
I'm going to play a clip of that so he responds saying well
You know whites have built civilization. Why does everybody say they're so bad?
Because you don't see that being built in africa today
You know my issue is this europeans have been barbarous as well
But the renaissance was an idea of not doing that and so why is it under such attack?
I've got a clip right here
of uh monroe
burgdorke
On racism in the uk. This is a program on the bbc
We played a lot of these clips where people going to denounce that white people are inherently evil now hitler said jews were inherently evil
So i'm not saying blacks are inherently evil. I'm not saying
I'm not saying anybody's inherently evil. There's bad groups everywhere can be it can be cultural
It can also be you know genetic tendencies in a family whatever
Just like the guy, you know reporter that did the vegas attack his dad was a convicted psychopath
You know bank robber tried to kill folks with cars. You name it bragged about it. Well this uh
Gz don't use the wrong word. I'll get arrested in california
Has come out as this fountain of wisdom and told us whites are inherently more barbarous more violent more evil actually crime statistics show
Say it's cultural whatever here in the us blacks are 10 times more likely similar numbers in europe
And it's even higher with muslims, but I mean i'm just saying the statistics
But you're saying i'm inherently a bad person. So why don't you resign?
Oh, because it's okay because you're being racist against whites
What you say is five times more brutal than what faber says
I want to play this and then get uh jerala salentes take on all this culture war garbage that i know
He just wants to transcend like i do with us having a unified culture of free market open real societies
Uh, but let's go ahead and play the uh clip of the racist training
If white people want to see an improvement for people of color, they need to understand that racism is not learned
It's inherited and either consciously or unconsciously passed down through privilege
The uncomfortable truth is that the white race is the most violent and oppressive force of nature on earth
My worry is that whatever governments do to tinker with institutional racism
It is so ingrained in the fabric of british society that it is too late to do anything about it
And then i've got all these videos of the new thing is men dressed up like women
But then in demon clown outfits going and scaring kids
At school libraries and it's like look if we can put a guy in a demon clown outfit in a room with a bunch of little kids
I mean you'd run at the park from these guys, but it's okay because they're like this
Group on a pedestal telling you that you're inherently baggage. You're white. What is going on with abc nbc cbs bbc
All of these groups force feeding this. What is this gerald salante?
It's it's happened as soon as trump started running. It's the division of america
And that's when it really began
And and that woman who was mentioning this. Oh, yeah, things are lovely, right?
Aren't they beautiful over there in somalia? How many just died the other day?
Oh, holy little over 300. Oh a beautiful day in the congo
I think i'm going to take my next vacation in molly. Maybe niger. Maybe
Cameroon look what's going on in africa good embed comes in all races creeds and colors
They're doing this to divide the nation and i'm and of course america is definitely a racist nation
I mean after all the last president we had obama. I think he was a couple of shades lighter than me
And who was the attorney general? Oh, yeah, that garbage piece of crap. Oh, I shouldn't say that
Eric hold up hold this eric the guy that didn't bring one of those banksters to jail
I think he was a and jay johnson a black guy and loretta lance, but it's just it. No, it's white people
How about condoleezza rice? How about that low-life piece of garbage who sold us the iraq war
colon powell
Oh, you know what alex
You know what passes through the colon why is he that why is he named after the final part of the lower intestine?
Because he's crap
Look what he did that he should be brought up on war crime tribunals with his little piece of colon crap
showing us this is proof but wait a minute wait a minute wait a minute white people are the only people that do bad
That's not racist. So what i'm saying is are there racists?
Of course there are other people that don't like italians don't like jews don't like of course
They're ignorant people. This is not a racist country
We elected a black and they know we're not so they use our weakness that we don't want to be racist against us
Because they know we have a conscience and i'm sick of it
again
When obama got elected and i'm doing media all over the world. He was gonna be the savior
Remember he won the no-bell piece of crap
prize
After he got it he gets since 30 000 more troops
to afghanistan
Kills over
4 000 innocent people with drone strikes quote i'm really good at killing people
Oh
Does it make a difference when you black white male female?
Whatever religion you believe in good and bad comes in all of them. It's the media that's dividing us now as a trend forecaster
i'm gonna tell you one of our top trends for 2018
You know that they're dividing us if you're a company if you're selling a product
Whatever you're doing sell unity not unity to fight someone go back to remember that song
Remember the how what about the love train?
What about the love train because because they say black lives matter whites and cops are evil
That's not unity. That's race war. We say let's just all come together and be free and be good
exactly
And as trend forecasters we tell our clients
This is a direction to go in as they're dividing you unite. We're all in this together
We're all americans. We're all here because it was the land of opportunity that our ancestors came to
We're here because of the declaration of independence and the constitution
So let's get straight over here. You want to go somewhere else leave
But if you want to be an american live by the principles of what made this country great at one time
That's right. And what the globalists are doing is
They're saying throw out all the rules forget those don't look at them
Even though it's the plan that move forward to try to actually make people have equal opportunity
They want to destroy that and give us the global model. That's totally secret totally authoritarian and has slave factories all over the world
What are we doing listening to these people? It's so obvious. Then we get their internal wiki leaks and they say
We're going to use racial division to control the general population while we
Basically use them and make them poor so we can control them into the future. I mean, they're literally dynamiting
The ladders up to success admitting it and then telling us how altruistic they are
Again, look at obama used to brag about all the jobs he created folks
They focus us all right
He created 94 percent of the jobs that were created according to the Harvard Princeton study a temporary jobs
So they're using the racism divisiveness because they're stealing all our dough the money's right
Everybody knows where it went to the 1 percent. Well, I'm making this stuff. So let me ask you this question
Why do they hate trump so much not that he's perfect, but they really hate him
Because he's not a member of the club and he's destroying it at different levels
That's it. And by the way, I was with Anthony Frida a couple of years a couple of weeks ago
He's the illustrator as you well know for our magazine same guy work
And we had lunch with the Robert trump
Donald Trump's brother that Anthony Frida knows and he was very gentlemanly and very, you know respectful
And and they hate trump because he's anti establishment does he do a lot of things? I like no
But he's anti establishment
And he's turned over the whole system and that's why they're against him
We've never had this happen in our lifetime when someone gets elected where they go after them continually
Absolutely stay there do five more minutes with us. I want to ask you about that and what we can do to continue this revolution
Of prosperity before everything totally implodes. Let's talk about that
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a
revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients
Used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
Our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for
Their oral health benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
But with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
And get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life.com and say goodbye to fatigue
That's info wars life dot com
You're listening to the alex jones show
music
Leading of frontal assault on the lies of the new world order it's alex jones on the gcn radio network
Coming up in the next segment i'm introduced roger stone is hosting the fourth hour
Let me get drill salinity sometime to start hosting with us. We've got a lot of new broadcasts war room coming up three o'clock
Maybe not in the morning with the real news
But there's some news that I forgot about getting into as I checked it out. It was true
george soros shorted mgm the week before the attack
47 million dollars meaning I guess he made way way more than that and then you've got
You've got the whole leftist agenda and the in the sjw islamis is that own mgm
And ellen jenette ellen's generous is invested in mgm
And it's part of mgm and owns a bunch of slot machines with mgm or she gets paid money off those ellen's slot machines
So that conflict of interest is coming up as the whole cover-up implodes vegas survivor who died suddenly had planned group to
expose cover-up and look, I know there's a lot of globalists out there, but
george soros
Literally owns and runs the groups that finance the disinfo against us
The lawsuits the lies the projects all of it
And it's an old crazy weird nazi collaborator. It makes you ask when is it going to end?
So we'll talk about that with roger stone the huge new russia stuff drill salinity
Obviously the economy is coming back. I never said we could have a three percent growth again
We did but there's big systemic problems if you don't get the tax cuts done free spending done get rid of obama care
It's designed to bankrupt it by design as you've announced as your analysis has showed
If trump fails if the globalists with interest rate hikes and things are able to beat him as they admit
They're trying to do will they get the blame or will the populace get the blame?
And what can we do to short circuit what they're doing?
The populace won't get to blame this time is going to rot from the head down
The imf came out with a study. They just showed that the g20 nations have a total debt of one point
Excuse me 30 13.5 trillion dollars
They're not going to be able to pay that off
It's all of the private equity groups the hedge funds all of this gambling that's been going on with this cheap money
And trump talked about that during the campaign
They built a bubble that's ready to burst
It and again, you know just as a fish rots in the head down
This crash is going to come from the top down and we're already seeing it in certain markets
The high-end homes the ones one three one five million. They're not selling like they used to they're not selling at all
In some areas the high expensive luxury condominiums are in selling
We believe it's peeking out at the top if interest rates go up too fast
They're going to go up 25 percent in december
Excuse me 20 25 basis points in december and that's not a lot that'll be able to hold it
But if they raise them say three more times in 2018, you're going to see this thing come down
They won't blame it on the populace. They won't blame it on trump. They'll blame it on the bigs
That's where it's coming from and those are the globalists
They're taking over the entire world. They've taken over the markets
So when this stock market goes down, who's it going to affect the five percent because the rest of the people aren't in it
Well, so the other thing too that's important is that you know, we were the you know me a lot of years
When trump got elected within days
We said the trump rally was real
It's still going on if there's not a correction and there has to be one at the end of this month
We're saying there'll be about a 10 correction
In january february or march, but if we make it through
October then it'll be free-sailing until then because the market is you know, it's blown up
But again earnings are well earnings are high. So that's positive too
All right, Gerald Salente always thought-provoking always powerful trendsresearch.com everybody bookmarked that and Gerald
Please join us anytime you want to come on not just when I think to get you on please
We're live like 10 hours a day now. So please join us on this transmission and the others. Thank you so much
All right, thank you and thank you for all that you do. We're in this together. This is an exciting fight
Now we're fighting really some corrupt bad guys and it's fun to fight them
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best-selling product
Brainforce now brainforce plus there's 20 more in each bottle
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic
Manufacturer here in the united states that we've been able to get it for less
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is
Blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already you're stocking up. They know how great it is
a whole bunch of organic natural healthy known
Neutropics and if you want good clean focused energy then brain forces for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time
It's a good deal at $39. It's
$19.96 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free
triple eight two five three
Three three one three nine
You are receiving this transmission. You are the resistance
live from austin texas
Broadcasting world wide
It's alex jones
Roger stone's hosting the fourth hour then the war room with elin shroyer and roger stone is coming up
Now I saw this a few days ago and I mentioned it
But I burrowed into it and actually went to the securities and exchange commission
And we'll put that on on screen in a few minutes and confirmed it
And with everything else that's come out. We're getting a really clear picture. You got sjw is that own the mgm
They're telling all their employees will give you a time off you name it
If you just double the amount of money that we're giving if you match it
We'll match the money you give to soros groups to the southern poverty law center
To the national islamic council here in the u.s. Which is basically the muslim brotherhood hamas connected
And then all this happens. There's a big cover up the media says isis isn't involved this comey
Mueller
Appointee covers it all up. It's incredible. But here's the headline out of investment watch. Wow
Soros had a 42 million dollar short on mgm
He always gets all the inside knowledge and so I guess made a couple hundred million dollars off that baby put in right beforehand
That was perfect. And then of course you got this young lady
She was start a victims group of survivors that saw the multiple shooters and had their videos taken away by the fbi
Well, she ended up dead. She's 28 that story is up on drugsreport.com kimberley schoemel 28 wanted to investigate. Well, she's dead now
Dead men or dead women tell no tales
I lost vegas security guard breaks silence on ellen after disappearance
So he was going to go on Hannity, but then said he wouldn't
They changed the timeline that he was getting shot at six minutes before they claimed other witnesses said that was shooting inside
The mandalay bay, but also at the Bellagio
Lost vegas security guard breaks silence on ellen after disappearance. Oh and look ellen
ellen owns and is involved makes money off slot machines with the whole mgm leftist combine
Okay
So there you go. And now you got vegas police blame journalist
Laura loomer for the missing security guard because he didn't want to be found they said
He had to I guess get his uh four or five days of debriefing ready before for the story changed yet again
I mean ladies and gentlemen
Soros is like cockroaches meet
Herpes
It's like herpes with legs
It won't go away. It always comes back. I don't want to just sit here and make him the devil that's involved
But every time I got some groups showing me
That's the new york fellow reserve board member or it's george soros funded or it's or it's I mean these people are aphorists
It's okay because as they turn the heat up on us hillary had almost three billion trump four hundred something million
We beat him
He just went from billions a year globally to 18 billion trying to destroy everybody
It's not going to work as long as you understand
This is a war as long as you spread the articles and the videos as long as you get politically involved
As long as you videotape yourself or start your own youtube or whatever you do just get vocal call c-span
Go to info war store.com. Get the great supplements. Try them for yourself. Get a cnn's fake news t-shirt
Wear it out in public meet a lot of people get 50% off anthroplex
Male and female uh libido stamina enhancement. You name it especially the dry form of supermail vitality
It's 50% off never done that before because
I did this thing I go into 50% off sometimes folks love that they buy even more
We bring in even more money doing this
The problem is it sells out of stuff and we have supply problems. Then we end up losing money
This takes a lot of money around this operation. We're trying to expand
Please financially support us commit today an additional 10% off when you sign up for auto ship
You can cancel any time with one mouse click free
Sign up every month every two months every three months every six months
So that you don't forget and you get the things like coffee and other perishables and other things that you need to reorder
Like supplements, but brain force that roger loves one of the best new tropics out there 20% more now in each bottle brain force plus
We have 50% off on that, but it's about to end and we have some other specials as well info war store.com
Or triple 8253 3139 and when you fund this operation you thumb your nose in the face of the scum bags
That stole their money their insider trading and all sorts of shady deals worldwide where he's been indicted and convicted
And overthrowing countries and currency manipulation. You stand up against that nazi collaborating
Sack of crap. So again, thank you all for your help and support. We will defeat the demon no matter what
So yeah, they don't want a car bomb us. It turns us into martyrs
But uh, even the lady investigating, you know
But that's that their car did blow up a few days ago. They just try to kill our names unless they hit you with that polonium
That time roger t-boned your car right after but still their whole russian narrative blew up
How does it feel to be totally vindicated to be the first person on radio and tv a year and a half ago to break down the entire narrative?
You've been proven correct in triplicate
Well, alex, um, I thank you for that. Uh, you were the one who called the entire
uh
charade about donald trump being a sexual assaulter
and the left's new attempts to revive that
already discredited
narrative by getting women to step forward and bear false witness against our president you predicted it
Months ago here. It has come to pass just days ago
look, um when nbc nightly news was forced to cover the fact that the
obama justice department mewler comey macabe
Uh, and yes, rosinstein had been caught red-handed in a massive cover-up
That they knew about russian bribery and russian shenanigans to get control
Of american produced enriched uranium and to get hillary clinton, uh, and her husband paid off
literally millions in order to approve a deal that allowed them to take control
Of our uranium mining at least 20 percent of it. Um, this has a really busted washington wide open
The exact people who are claiming that donald trump
Colluded with the russians are the ones who were covering up obama clinton collusion with the russians. They are so busted
They are so caught red and what was it like for you to now see sessions finally
Putting on big boy pants getting out of his little little little baby shorts
I'm not being mean a fact and saying hillary is under criminal investigation in the judiciary committee meeting this morning
Well not add that to the fact that the senate judiciary committee has announced their own investigation
Into the russian cover-up. It's about time
So mewler and all of their energy was desperately to cover up that they indeed had done it
You were the first to say that about
Uh, because you knew the history and it had been in news years before about podesta saying his time in the barrel was coming
They used that to claim that you had gotten it from wiki leaks, which of course you hadn't but they changed the subject from what they've done
To wiki leaks by extension claiming you're a russian agent when they're on the tarmac literally handing over the uranium
Now let's be clear. I learned about john podesta in the panama papers in january of last year
Uh, I further learned about it in a stunning piece by jerry coursey
Then of world net daily now of info wars that exposed
All of the inside dealing done by let's just get her on she broke it. Oh, what happened to her three days ago
Yeah, blown up. Isn't that amazing the journalists who first exposed john podesta
Literally blown uh to hell uh, but maybe it was natural causes like uh, it's seth rich
Well, and here's uh, and here's uh something else that you have exactly right alex and that is
George soros is the evil puppet master behind all of this the lawsuit against me by protect democracy
This is financed by soros the lawsuit against you from this wacky group in california financed by soros
Why are the are we being targeted?
Because we are on to him and we are exposing him and we are making it hurt
Now this really pains me to say alex, but
The the dinosaur barbecue chain in new york some of the best barbecue. I've had outside of austin texas
locations baltimore brooklyn buffalo harlem newark rochester stanford
Syracuse and troi new york
Taken over funded now by george soros
So do not eat there and research every group the nfl all of it. It's all enemies
But we are boycotting dinosaur barbecue, which is a shame because it's the best barbecue
I've had outside of austin, but you know if he's taken it over, you know
It's what he does. He takes over something good. Then he absolutely burns it down like good fellas. All right. You're taking over my friend
It's a total war for america 1776 part 2 spread the word spread the articles pray for us by the products and we will defeat that dirty
Nazi collaborator he's going down america's rising go to hell george soros go to hell mccain
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well after 10,000 years someone has finally come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun
Which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required 39 95
Flesh shipping and handling use discount code gcn and receive 15 off your purchase at bug assault.com
Fire your fly swatter and get your bug assault today
Fully cooked ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious
I buy some I use some I store some awesome
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life
NASA pack technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or
Warm and serve life-saving ready to eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon ships free at fully cooked bacon dot com
Fully cooked bacon dot com water is the single most important thing your body needs
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family since 2005
Thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency get to go burky dot com
We're call 877-886-3653
877-886-3653 go burky dot com
Hunters anglers campers and survivalists get back to nature expand your horizons with the highest quality most versatile
Unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at sling bow dot com
Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool feel the thrill only at sling bow dot com
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
Biotrue selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health
Biotrue selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100
Organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure
Deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
Which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones
You may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
Survival shield x2 and Biotrue selenium work together to support the systems in your body
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo
Discover the power of survival shield x2 and Biotrue selenium at info wars life dot com
We're not just going to have to end of the next week the brain force plus special 50 off
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth to the merech chaga mushroom
B pollen and more
Concentrate you talk about next level meal replacement next level compared to whey and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes
It's incredible. My son is growing like a weed using it. It's bigger than I am already 15 incredible
It is amazing info wars life.com 50% off caveman, but only a few days left
It's about to end and folks the globalist hate it when you do this
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high the globalist when we're all slaves
So don't thank me for what i'm doing. I want to thank you. We're all in this together
And when you get the great molon lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos
You're fighting the tip of the spear again. Visit info war store.com today and commit to helping the info war
You're listening to the alex jones show
This is bernie sanders and I know a lot of my supporters
May not believe this but I listen to roger stone whenever he's on info wars. It's a great program at least in my opinion
I'm roger stone and you're back on the alex jones show
when senator
John mccain was a standing for reelection in the 2016 elections, donald j trump had swept the republican primaries and was on his way
To sweeping the era zona primary
senator mccain was opposed in that primary in a competitive race by state senator kelly ward
I implored candidate trump to endorse ward or at least
At withhold his endorsement from john mccain, but rince previs and others
Persuaded candidate trump to endorse mccain who then
Fairly narrowly won his primary and went on to
Certain reelection as donald trump swept arizona as did all republicans in the november election
That act of kindness in which donald trump could have ended the career of john mccain
Has been paid back with nothing but treachery since that time now john mccain's
red-faced temper tantrums his
Tourette's like outbursts of peak
His seething meltdowns his bitterness and jealousy are things of legend in washington
John mccain is not a man in his right mind
as a christian i'm going to ascribe his uh erratic behavior to his illness and of course
We wish him well in that struggle against brain cancer, but yesterday john mccain went too far
He not only attacked our president, but he attacked the movement and the voters that elected him
This is disgraceful. I think we may have a clip
Uh, if not, we you can uh, you can see that drudge led with this item
now
Donald trump who is a street fighter himself a brawler
A guy who battled his way not only to the nomination over 15 more experienced candidates, but over the wanted
Well oiled extremely well financed clinton machine
Had words of warning for uh senator mccain
He basically said he is not going to return the turn the other cheek forever
He has bitten his tongue as john mccain has scuttled the obama care replacement
It he has bitten his tongue while john mccain said that the russian collusion scandal was worse than watergate
No senator. It's not you have nothing
I bit my tongue when senator john mccain said
Roger stone should be compelled before to come before the senate
And explain his relationship with uh, yukanovich the former president of ukraine and the russians
Well senator i'm going to say this slowly so you can follow me
I have no relationship with either
Your demagoguery is not appreciated. You owe me an apology, but while we're at it senator. I've got a question for you
Why did you meet with olig dera pasca?
Who was a bagman oligarch for vladimir putin during your campaign for president?
You were warned by the fbi that he was a russian agent, but you chose to meet with him anyway
Here's my follow-up question senator mccain. How much money did you ask him for for your?
republican institute a front organization that legally can take foreign funds unlike your
presidential campaign
John mccain was in bed with vladimir putin john mccain was the republican candidate for president colluding with the russians
john mccain should be ashamed of himself
now, uh, let me turn to the controversy that
Has dominated the news today and that is a claim that president donald trump has not reached out to the
Families of our fallen men and women who die in the line of combat
Uh, this is uh, a uh manifestation in all honesty of sloppy
Staff work by general john kelly the white house chief of staff
I have confirmed that president trump has either written to or called
the parents and families of every fallen soldier
That whose information has reached the president's desk
meaning any
Service man or woman whose family did not get proper respects paid by the president of the united states
Did not do so because of a failure by general kelly to provide the president with that information
General kelly is supposed to be well. I'm the source of all information and now we have a smear by uh congresswoman
fred rica wilson a black radical from florida who claims that the president told a floridian widow
Of a service man. Well your husband knew what he signed up for
The president never said that and congresswoman you look stupid in that cowboy hat
Congressman from south florida don't wear cowboy hats
It was stupid looking when you wore it in the state senate
It's stupid looking when you wear it in the house lose the cowboy hat. Will you please?
So, uh, this again is the media seeking to distract from the big news the big news the obama administration
knew about had proof of payoffs by the russian nuclear industry
A massive
145 million dollar payoffs to the clinton foundation
A half million dollar payoff to former president bill clinton in order to get hillary clinton to approve
the uh transfer of the control of 20 percent of the enriched uranium in the united states
To the russians a company controlled by the russian state
James comey knew robert muhler both former fbi directors. They both knew
Attorney general pardon me then u.s. Attorney rod rozenstein knew deputy fbi director
andrew mccabe knew
But no one was informed on the private seas investment board that had to approve transfer of the uranium control
Attorney general eric holder sits on that board. He was certainly aware
But he raised no objection to the transfer of this valuable strategic material to the russians
So what does the mainstream media do? Ah simple
We change the subject you will not get reporting like this anywhere else
On the net or in the mainstream media, which is why I implore you to get to the info wars.com
Uh site where we need your support and where super male vitality in anthro pex plex
Both on extraordinary discount, but the synergy of these two products the very very best help us help yourself
Help your male vitality if you're a he-man like myself and alex jones by going to the site now
George soros will not be happy about your purchase
Hello, mr. Anderson the NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist tired of your internet activity being monitored by big brother
Get virtual shield.com the world's easiest to use virtual private network brows the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and spies
In the dust get started today at virtual shield.com take advantage of our free 30 day trial virtual shield.com
You have the right to remain private
North korea openly threatens the us and launches a new missile every other week their warhead of choice
Electromagnetic pulse such an event would cripple the us power grid for years and leave millions in the dark
Are you ready? You can be with a solar arc emp hardened solar generator
Solar arc works day in and day out to keep your essentials protected
You can have peace of mind knowing your power will be there when you most need it. Visit portable solar llc.com to see emp testing
That's portable solar llc.com energy insurance for your family
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with emmerich's essentials
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com
Including non-nano spf 30 zinc oxide sunscreen date free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash
Uncented body wash tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant emmerich's essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified usda
Made with organic our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life truly feel the difference by going organic
Natural without compromising on quality feel good about using emmerich's essentials
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit infowarstore.com
And learn more about the new emmerich's essentials line of organic products. That's infowarstore.com
You know someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to america it'll come in the name of liberalism
Welcome to the war room the latest expansion in info wars live broadcasting
We are live weekdays from three to six p.m. Central at info wars.com slash show
And this youtube channel right here that you've landed on please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications
You can follow us on twitter at war room show
We are going to have the most powerful guests the most powerful hosts
Will he be hearing from alex jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls?
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long the silent majority is no longer silent
This is the war room
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor
That's right
Now's the time to build your own food storage with harvest rights freeze dryers
Go to info wars store.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
That's easy to use and let me tell you something
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits vegetables meats dairy products desserts and entire meals
Whoo, that's what i'm talking about and when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating
You know like what you get at the grocery store. There is no comparison harvest right freeze dryers retain 97 percent of the food's taste
Color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years
Now that's what i call the miracle of food preservation harvest right is truly the world's best most affordable freeze dryer
So what are you waiting for check it out right now at info wars store.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
Hi, this is former mayor and the greatest mayor mr. Line 11 rudy juliani and you're listening to roger stone on info wars
That was uh america's mayor rudy juliani i dare say if he were attorney general today
Regardless of what you may think of him. I have a feeling that hillary clinton would be behind bars and her husband bill and her
uh daughter with uh
web hubble
Chelsea clinton would be on her way there as well
Uh joining us now a very special guest. We have uh pastor mark burns
Who is the pastor of the harvest praise and worship center in easily south carolina?
Uh pastor burns was labeled by time magazine as donald trump's top pastor
He was named by one of the 16 people who helped shape the 2016 presidential election by
yahoo news
And he has been an outspoken defender
Of president donald trump now many many people have been talking about the prospect of getting
My friend pastor mark burns to run for public office
Some speak about his running for lieutenant governor others
Say he'd make a great secretary of state or state controller
Still others are urging him to challenge
rhino
lindsay graham
Down the road, but here's what people don't know and that is that mark burns started
By playing the keyboards and singing gospel music with a family group the burns brothers of belton south carolina
Now i for one
Believe it's time for somebody in the united states senate who can really rock out and i think that's mark burns
Welcome to info wars pastor burns. Thanks for having me roger. I love that intro
Well, uh, this is uh, uh, I think uh important. I tweeted the other day that you were even casually considering
uh public office and that many many south carolina republicans have
openly urged you to challenge
lindsay graham who has been a
Thorn in the side of our president kind of the sancho panza to john mccain king of the rhinos
Uh, we all wish senator mccain. Well with his health problems, but I had no idea after I
Tweeted this the firestorm it would engender
I've learned that you have many many friends and admirers
In south carolina both republican and democrat
And I think a lot of this has to do with the fact that you have been willing to stand up and say things that
No one else is willing to say particularly on the issues of the confederate statutes and our heritage
So, uh, why is it that many people seem to be flocking to your standard?
well, you know roger again people are tired of
um
People saying one thing and doing another people are tired of identity politics people are tired of this race war and
These false accusations of oppression from you know the department of justice people really just want the truth
This attack on the confederate statutes
Will you know pulling the statue down with at not one dollar to a black person's bank account?
And this is what donald trump gets he understands
I'm not going to focus on the fruit of the problem
Which is race wars identity politics led by the delimbs liberals and the democrats
But i'm going to deal with the roots of the problem, which is a lack of jobs
And donald trump understands that
Now it seems to me the entire argument about these statues is an argument about the past
I'm more interested in the future
Uh, all of the black
Black people I know they're interested in economic opportunity. They're interested in safer and better schools
They're interested in living in safer and more secure neighborhoods
Everybody I know in that community wants their piece of the american pie
Uh, they don't want to argue about things that happened a hundred years ago
To me, I think it I think it disrespects abraham lincoln dr. Martin luther king
Uh adam clayton powell jr. Malcolm x these men led and they've made progress. No, we are not perfect
But we are making progress and I think you have said these kinds of things
I think it's why many people are rallying to you
Well, you know, it's not about protests. We got to get out of the protest mindset
We got to get out of protest and we got to focus on progress. How do we move forward again focusing on statues focusing on
The confederate movement back a hundred years ago
It changes nothing for us to date. It is not about
Silver rights to date. It's about economic rights again
Poverty knows no color. You know, what's happening in poor black communities?
Um, our half is happening also in poor white communities and the goal is we've got to focus on the real issues which is jobs
changing the focus on this racial divide that is not bringing us together
And start really dealing with the issues that's going to change all american lives in our country
Again, as long as we're focusing on the on the protests, nothing will never change progress
How do we move forward? How do we work together and how do we bring our arms hand to hand together?
And that's that that that's the movement that's taking place and and you're right roger
I'm just drawn away about in the flatter of the so many people around the country that is saying pastor
You need to run against uh, Lindsey Graham again. I'm so flattered. My number one focus right now
Is to just do what you said
Focus on the real issues that are plaguing our communities asking their communities and guess what black people don't want to hand out
They don't want to they want to hand up. They want opportunities. Uh, they want a chance to say listen
I did this because I'm a hard worker like dr. King. You're not going to judge me
They saw the color of my skin, but by the content of my character
Um, and so people are tired of these identity politics and they want real people who are going to stand up just like
Donald trump and just like hearing mcmaster the governor of this great state of sarkarana
I'm really adamant and i'm focused on helping elect
Uh, the current in comic governor governor mcmasters to continue to carry towards the south carolina
Well, I saw that both you and the president endorsed henry mcmaster
I have of course known the governor back to his days as a
us attorney
He is most definitely the right man for that job and the man to leave south carolina forward
Uh, I hope he selects a lieutenant governor candidate who can help him in the african american community
And yes, I do have somebody in mind who I think meets that criteria
I don't want to get ahead of ourselves here, but
lindsay graham, that's three and a half years away
Uh, whereas there are statewide races, uh in south carolina in 18
Um, I do see the president's endorsement for henry mcmaster as being very valuable and pivotal
Some people said well, it's it's like alabama where the fella he endorsed failed. No, actually
I don't think so at all because luther strange was never a true blue trump supporter whereas henry mcmaster
Supports the president's program for reform in washington as you do
I'm glad I do want to mention uh that uh people can
Reach out to you at burns uh hashtag burns five four two four four
If you want to get in touch with pastor burns and help in his movement to make both south carolina
And america great again when it comes to race issues when it comes to economic issues
This man speaks the truth. He speaks to me. That's why I have been impressed
By the number of people that are urging him to step forward. It's a sacrifice folks
Don't think that donald trump ran for president because he needed to be somebody. He was already somebody
Pastor mark burns is already somebody. He's already having an impact on his community
It would be a burden a sacrifice to run for public office
But leaders must lead and if folks like mark burns don't step forward
Then we are stuck with the status quo
We're gonna have mark burns back here on the info wars to chart his progress
But pastor i'm honored that you could join us today
And I urge my fellow info warriors to follow you very closely
Thank you so much roger i'm so honored to be here and again for everyone that is watching just pull out your cell phone
And text burns my last name to the number five four two four four and i'll be able to connect with you personally
God bless you. Uh pastor burns and come back and see us. I'm roger stone
You're on the alex jones show stay with us
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product
The brain force now brain force plus there's 20% more in each bottle
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic
Manufacturer here in the united states that we've been able to get it for less
So i'm offering for the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is
Blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already you're stocking up. They know how great it is
A whole bunch of organic natural healthy known
Neutropics and if you want good clean focused energy then brain forces for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time
It's a good deal at $39. It's
1996 at info wars life
Dot com or simply call toll free
Triple eight two five three three one three nine
Please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money
While you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win
Number one when you choose auto ship before checkout
We give you 10 off on your order at info warshore dot com number two
You're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listers have been requesting this for years
Because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month
Just go to info warshore dot com select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to
Send you another order as you know
I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at info wars life dot com
This is a sure win 10 off on auto ship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense
Sixty years ago when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs
They had drums of their own air raid sirens, but in the 21st century there are silent weapons for quiet war
Pathogens added to the food and water into the lining of plastics that destroy our
Votality turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death. I personally counter this onslaught with
Anthroplex. Anthroplex is designed with known organic concentrated herbs to create the basic
Foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body discover why Anthroplex has turned so many heads today
It's time for us to take our bodies back into our own hands and it starts at info wars life dot com with Anthroplex
Vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to secure your chemister
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body
Absolutely needs in the history of info wars life
We've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2
Super metal vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
Manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products
And this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab
Standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war
That's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
You're listening to the alex jones show
This is bernie sanders and there's a lot of corruption in this country
And if you want to hear about corruption, then you'll listen to robson stone on info wars those details are true
This is vintage rolling stones a piece written by chuck berry called carol
A one of the legendary covers by the stones in the 1960s
As we said in the first segment we have learned that the nazi collaborator
And a far left troublemaker
George soros the man who wiki leaks revealed paid for the fomenting of violence at donald trump's campaign rallies
The man who is paying for the phony lawsuit by protect democracy that accuses me
completely falsely and without evidence of having
Colluded with the russians to hack the dnc and give the information
To julian assange of wiki leaks a stone cold lie a falsehood a myth a fairytale a steaming plate of horse
Pucky that has been served up by the democrats in the house and senate intelligence committee mr
Soros has taken majority control of the dinosaur barbecue
Chain in the northeastern united states now
This is a tragedy thanks to jonathan tillov of the austin american statesman
i've had
The privilege to have some of the finest barbecue in austin texas austin for those of you don't know it
But is the barbecue capital of the world there is no better barbecue anywhere on the face of the planet sorry you north carolinians
But i must admit dinosaur was a go-to favorite
They have a location in harlem new york not far from my place i live between frederick douglas and
adam clayton powell junior boulevards
When in new york uh and their locations baltimore brooklyn buffalo where it all started
Newark rochester stanford connecticut syracuse new york and troit new york this is a pity
Folks i'm imploring you boycott soros boycott dinosaur goodbye
dino we're not giving our money to a nazi collaborator who is
Fomenting violence in the united states. We know who paid for the phony
Violence in charlotte'sville
We could tell a false flag operation when this fellow
Kessler who is suddenly a white supremacist admits that only a year ago. He was an obama backer
Doing demonstrations and violence on behalf of octupi doesn't sound like a right winger to me
It sounds to me like a false flag. So
Folks join me on this boycott. Let's inflict a little bit of pain on mr. Soros
The other issue that comes before us today
Is the entire question of the cover-up and what will happen next now
John solomon of the hill sarah carter of cirka news and our friend shone hannity
Breaking enormous news yesterday. We previewed it here on info wars as early as yesterday morning
What we have caught is a massive bribery plot where the obama administration
The fbi the justice department were well known known to them that there were
a massive million dollar bribes by
By the russians that there was a hundred and forty five million dollars
Funneled to the clinton foundation that there was a another half million dollars
Given to former president bill clinton to ensure the transfer of our technology
And who led this investigation why it was for at first fbi director robert muller then under fbi director james comey
All under assistant fbi director andrew mccabe and directed by none other than then u.s. Attorney rod
rosinstein these are the very men
Who have set up president donald trump for the coup in which rosin stein on nobody's authority
appointed muller
To investigate a non-crime to find a crime. You see folks special counsel special prosecutors
Are normally appointed when there's evidence of a crime
And the justice department for some reason has a conflict of interest
In this case mr. Rosinstein appointed mr. Mueller
When there was no evidence of a crime
There are two separate questions here, and they're important
One is the question of whether the russians sought to effect our election
Through some poorly written and badly targeted facebook ads
The answer appears to be yes, then there is the question of whether
Donald trump or trump associates or trump family members
Or trump campaign ads or trump friends of many years standing
Colluded coordinated or conspired with the russians to help elect donald trump
And there is to this day
Not a scintilla of evidence not an iota of evidence that that was the case
The senator from north carolina former use car dealer richard bur was forced to come out and said well so far
We have no evidence
And then congressman adam schiff the ranking democrat on the
House committee who stunningly claimed in the hearing in which i participated
That the fbi was allowed to examine the server of the dnc
backed up by congresswoman jackie spear
And vigorously contested by congressman trey gowdy who pointed out that james
Comey and
secretary johnson both sat before the intelligence committee and swore under oath
That the dnc did not let the fbi examine their servers to see if there ever was really a hack
So i think it's incumbent on congressman schiff and congressman spire to clarify
Their comments if they know something we don't know they have some obligation to tell the american people
But the nation magazine piece
Highlighting the veterans of intelligence, uh, like william bennie rey
mcgovern and others who have pointed out that the hard science indicates that the dnc
Was never hacked by anyone
Never mind the russians that this narrative was invented by john pedesta and the democrats to distract
From what we now know from yesterday's disclosures was a million dollar scam
To have the russians line the pockets of the clintons in return for control of 20 percent of america's enriched uranium
What we have here folks is a cover-up
My question yesterday was since it was the hill and cirka news and info wars and
Sean hannity making these exposures would the mainstream media pick up this story and do it justice?
Now that senator chuck grasley's senate judiciary committee has launched an open investigation
Into this treachery
It is highly unlikely that a cover-up can be
successful
Folks, this is the kind of breaking news you can only get at info wars, which is why I again ask you
Go to the info wars.com store where we have some extraordinary
specials going on
For a limited time bio true selenium is 40 off now
You cannot get better 100 organic selenium
which was made
Truthfully from mustard seeds. This is an essential trace mineral that you need in a highly potent all natural supplement
It can boost your cardiovascular and thyroid health and it keeps the body moving and functioning at our healthiest
I have found adding this to my regimen has really helped my workouts
I have been able to run longer do cardio longer and i'm no fan of the cardio
I admit it at the same time you've got an extraordinary special on secret 12
Which is 40 off?
These products are not going to last very long with these deep discounts
Alex jones has really gone crazy in my view and is offering now brain force at 50 off
You're talking about super male vitality at 30 percent off. You're talking about secret 12 at 40 percent off
You're talking about bio true selenium at 50 percent off take advantage of these deep
Discounts today help us fight the globalists make george soros unhappy place your order today
