It's Thursday, October 11th, 2018.
We are now just 26 days out from what, to this point historically, is the most important
election ever.
The entire world is watching.
Now what was the theme of the broadcast on Monday?
What was the theme of the broadcast on Tuesday?
What was the theme of the broadcast on Wednesday?
That the left is escalating into outright terror acts ahead of the election, and they're
going to launch terror attacks ahead of the election, they're going to launch terror attacks
after the election.
They are going to escalate because it's part of a continuum, it's part of a program, it's
part of an operation, it's part of a shake and bake, just like you go to the store and
get some pancake batter and all you do is add milk.
It's a program that the globalists have carried out in hundreds of countries in the last 150
years.
And so right on time, we're going to cover this when we come back from break, a man who
planned DC suicide bombing wanted to stop Republicans suspending electoral process, domestic
terrorist was angry about the country's direction, cooking a giant bomb reportedly at the end
of his lonely cul-de-sac in the basement, complete whacked out leftist, if you go look
at all of his posts, the media is trying to cover this up, but he said that he was angry
about the enlightenment and Christianity and the Renaissance.
It's Christians 500 years ago that created the Renaissance and the medicine and the technology
and the end of slavery and everything, and if you actually read what this guy is into,
it's a very nihilistic system that I would closely resemble to the Jacobins.
And again, why are the Jacobins so critical?
If you talk to any historian of long-term human development, any historian of the span
of human development, you will discover that they all know that the term leftist did not
exist until the Jacobins, previous to that, you had the right-hand path and the left-hand
path, meaning the path of God, the path of the devil, sinister being the left, right
being the hand of God, and it was also associated with the feminine and things like that, and
you had cults and groups that worship the left-hand path, that's why you've got Bathamet
famously with the left-hand and the right-hand saying he basically controls both, okay?
They wanted to temporarily bring that into the world, they wanted to abolish the family,
have nine-day work weeks, limit the amount of months in the year, totally change the
order of things, and overturn reality to blaspheme God, and they were going to sell people on
a utopia under their Luciferian satanic takeover, but at the top they admitted, and their own
documents were seized by the German government and others, and it was confirmed to be accurate,
that Adam Weishaupt's Illuminati was actually behind the whole Jacobin situation in the
French Revolution that killed several million French people, and it wasn't just the elites,
it turned out the elites, a lot of them were running it to get rid of the royal family,
have a mass culling, steal property nationwide, take over the empire, and then reboot it via
Napoleon Bonaparte, so again, that's the real arc of history there, and so when you read
about Jacobins and you understand the program they wanted to carry out, they claimed they
were going to just randomly take people from the entire culture and put them in power,
but instead they just overturned one corrupt system that wasn't completely out to destroy
reality and put in something far worse, which only lasted six, seven years, and then after
that mass culling program, then it brings in the more fascist system, which is what
you see in communist China or other areas where they come in, kill 100 million people,
reprogram everybody, break up the families, put people in communal brainwashing facilities,
and then relaunch the new system that tends to be quasi-capitalistic, but only on the
top, communistic on the bottom, so when we come back we'll look at this gentleman as
the archetypal pseudo-intellectual who thought that he would get the election canceled because
he was worried that the Republicans were going to steal the election, and so this is going
to be a massive bomb, he's going to detonate inside DC on election day to bring in a civil
emergency and trigger the Democrats carrying out larger civil emergencies across the country,
aka martial law. We'll be right back to break this down on the other side, and hopefully
we can all work together to stop it because if you think he's the only one that just got
caught, you're not living on the plan.
We'll be right back to break this down on the other side, and we'll be right back
to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other
side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right
back to break it down on the other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the
other side, and we'll be right back to break it down on the other side.
The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the Empire of
the World. George Washington had warned us against foreign wars. The United States of
Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken. Its former colony, the U.S.,
had to save the empire. Was there ever a vote? Who do we fight for? The Deep State began with
World War I, the United States of Empire, by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
1 of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the High Mountains of Southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques. Based
off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, you've sourced only
the best to provide you with our immune support and wake up America, Patriot Blend Coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate
the world's finest coffee bean. Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in
big agricultural productions, Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great
depth to give you just what you need in the morning. You can even choose to start your
morning healthier with the Immune Support Blend, infused with a powerful blend to support
your immune response and stamina. It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag
of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at InfowarsStore.com.
Infowars Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it. It's a
best source prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries
and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body
and for regularity and so much more. And it synergistically works with our 50 billion
live, active culture, floral life, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold,
and the funguses in the gut. So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new
incredible fiber product and these other products. You can get them separately or together and
make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time. And I'm
doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month. A strongest
concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and
a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out. And I think it's going to be the same
way with this fiber. Get yours today in ForWarsLife.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, Alex Jones here back live. You have to understand that we have
called it yet again. And that's why they want to soft the air. It's why we're the number
one enemy after Trump because we will cover the hard subjects that other talk show hosts
are too afraid to cover. We broach them. We put them out first. We make it safe for others
to be able to talk about it, to investigate it and to research it. We hit the barbed wire
or, as has been said, we are the test pilots here at Infowars.com. Now, we know it's the
left and the globalist that don't want Trump in, that don't want an American re-assurgence,
that don't want a Second Amendment. We know they're the ones trying to shut down Infowars.
We know they're the ones trying to brainwash and sexualize your kids to sabotage the nation
and our future. We know Soros funded violent terror attacks and attacking police stations
and the government buildings four years ago to overthrow Ukraine. We know he's buying
full-page ads in the New York Times saying overthrow Trump and Pence drive them from power.
They've been doing this for several years, the last 21 months. Now, with 26 days out,
suddenly, oh, the left is out blocking roads, trying to create crises, trying to get people
to run over so they can then call them right-wing white supremacists that did it. That's what
local news is doing. And if it just blocks random roads, starts beating people's cars
all over the place, that's their order. So now you have this individual who's busted,
reportedly building a 200-pound bomb in his basement because he believes the
enlightenment and Christianity and the Renaissance is evil and must be stopped.
What's that tell you where he's coming from? And he wants this system of randomly selected
people to run things. That's pure Jacobin brainwashing. Doesn't mean it's an actual
Jacobin or an alimony. It means he's bought into the chili, the Kool-Aid.
And he wants to carry out a terror attack killing potentially thousands during the election
in the mall in front of the Washington Monument when all the kids are there for field trips.
Everybody's out for the election to draw attention to the fact that it isn't leftist that are
staging the terror attacks that he believes will be going on that day or days before it,
that the Republicans are going to stage to blame on the left. You see how that works?
I've got to go out and carry out a terror attack to prove it's the Republicans doing the terror attack.
This guy is the classic cutout. I've done a lot of research on him.
Classic cutout decoy, a mental patient who they would have out there with a bomb,
who they would then load up with pro-Trump paraphernalia, you name it.
There's a lot of different angles they could go with, but the globalists tell you how they even do this.
Remember the movie Arlington Road where they tricked the professor to think he's going to stop the terror attack
but then he actually gets blamed for it. That's exactly what they did with McVeigh.
He was there trying to go around setting up militias to stop terror attacks.
When they said they were going to go out and carry out a real one, he blew the whistle, tried to stop it.
They drugged him up and the rest is history and that all came out in court.
But that's a side issue. Let me go over this article for you right now.
Man who planned DC bombing wanted to stop Republicans suspending electoral process
so he was going to bomb things to stop the election.
Investigators scoured his home and discovered a bomb that weighed 200 pounds
but included only eight pounds of explosive black powder before it was seen as.
Had he been successful, Rosenfeld's alleged plot could have claimed the lives of innocent bystanders
and caused untold destruction, said FBI assistant director in charge William Sweeney.
The 56-year-old Paul Rosenfeld of Tampa, of Japan, New York,
planned to blow himself up on the national Mollin D.C. election day
where an FBI who say Rosenfeld confessed the plot.
News reports about the plot heavily emphasize Rosenfeld's motive to draw attention to sortation
which is a political theory that advocates the random selection of government officials.
It sounds like idiocracy. However, most reports are absent indications
that the accused terrorist appears to be left leaning. Yeah, they're covering that up.
In one of the blogs, Rosenfeld complained about undue corporate influence of democracy
which he blamed on Christian-infused political philosophy from the Enlightenment.
Notice the opposite of what we stand for. What into slavery?
What empowered women? What gave us medicine? The literature? The art? The science?
He also voiced a conspiracy theory that Republicans were planning to claim
that terrorists had infiltrated the Democratic Party as a pretext to suspend voting
and permanently install themselves in the White House.
No, no, that's what Obama was planning. We have the actual documents from 2015,
but he failed because blacks wouldn't riot. Even today, despite all our democratic pretensions in the U.S.,
one might easily imagine a scenario in which President Jeb Bush,
following an act of nuclear terrorism, suspends electoral process under the pretext
that terrorists have infiltrated the Democratic Party. Perpetual dynasty of Bush leaders
with the plausible outcome wrote Rosenfeld. Rosenfeld's leftist political beliefs
will stoke more concern than extreme rhetoric by the likes of Maxine Waters, Hillary Clinton,
and others who've radicalized extremist friends' elements on the left
who may lash out with violent attacks.
So, look, folks, we're going to learn more as this unfolds, but we've seen the globalists
do this under countries. We know the rhetoric they're using.
We know that they've got raw story editors, you know, head editors saying,
you know, Oscar Lees, you're a baby, you know, we're defending ourselves when you got shot.
All this stuff is them normalizing this atmosphere, believing that they can then have provocateurs go out,
carry out attacks, and then the real terrorists behind that will go in and stage even bigger events
which they believe will then scare Americans into submission,
and they believe will cross the stock market to crash, and then they can use this to basically order
the American people to sue for peace with the globalists in the name of stability.
I think they've bet wrong. I think that they're jumping the shark.
I think their intimidation is only making you wake up and realize how tyrannical they are
and that acquiescing to them is only going to cause the total enslavement of our civilization and our society.
We cannot surrender to this. This is capitulation, and I have been predicting that they're going to bomb crowds,
they're going to bomb universities, they're going to bomb schools, they're going to bomb so-called liberal targets,
and then they're going to claim that regardless of whoever did it, it's Trump's rhetoric
and it's Trump demonizing the press that caused it and deserves to now be removed from office.
When Trump's never attacking the press, he attacks fake news, individual liars, and groups that are frauds,
and he says that they're the enemy of our country coming back, which they are.
All they try to do is demoralize us, but here's the biggest issue.
26 days out, you have to understand that this guy's ideology is core,
illuminous brainwashing. It isn't illuminous doctrine.
It's what the illuminous tell the useful idiots that believe the utopia they're going to build.
This is right out of French Revolution stuff, the leftist left-hand path.
That's when you get the term in politics leftist. Before it was liberal egalitarian renaissance,
and they were always wanting more freedoms for individuals, more freedoms for everybody,
and they wanted to take care of the poor, you name it.
You had the right hand that was more like war and dictatorial and let poor people pull themselves up by the bootstraps,
which you could argue has a lot of validity in the whole liberal system, so you don't get too weak,
but you don't want the right to get too out of control, and so you have the more liberal inclination to be nice and sweet
versus the right wing to be real male and strong.
Leftist is not that.
Leftist is associated with liberal. It has nothing to do with it.
It is the Jacobin philosophy of coming in and taking control of society
and then building it in your new image of absolute terror, absolute domination, absolute human suffering
with a tiny elite on top, a human face having a boot stomping on it forever, the priest of power.
Absolute will of domination trampling and being trampled, quote, George Arwell.
We'll be right back on the other side, 26 days out. Countdown to a major decision.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and stoned American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road,
Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
For more than 10 years, visit Gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
And now, because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever
that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
So bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
So go to infowars.com and get supermail vitality before it's gone. This is actually our last run of supermail vitality.
So I want you to experience supermail vitality before it's too late. Unleash the supermail in you.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official oil formula or just want an alternative,
infowars life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and Omega-3s
found in our high quality ultra pure Crill Oil concentrate. Containing powerful antioxidants
such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s. Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil
with less required DHA and EPA. This incredible formula can help your body in many ways,
including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism,
helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula
that contains unmodified high quality Crill Oil concentrate, paired with our ultimate fish oil or you separately.
It's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil, now available at infowarsstore.com.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Alex Jones here. Thank you for joining us again on this Thursday.
Addition 26 days out and I want to be clear to new viewers and listeners.
I know a lot of this can be frightening, especially because you've seen how much of what we've talked about come true.
I'm not telling you all this to scare you. I'm telling you this is going on because we can stop this together
or if they still carry out these attacks, we can be aware of who's behind it and we can mitigate the situation
and not let them use the crisis that they've created to further take our liberties and stampede us off the edge of an authoritarian cliff.
But the most important thing I can say at this point that I always in the still of the night mean to come on air and say,
and then I get on air and get so distracted by all the minutiae of information that I don't get back to basics.
I love God. I know most of you love God and have a relationship with God.
And just because we have a relationship with God doesn't mean we're all perfect, doesn't mean all of us have the answers.
But those of us that love God automatically are humble and we don't feel like we should be preachers
and we don't feel like we should be out telling people about God because we're God fearing
and we realize that we're all wicked as the day is long.
But we're pointed towards God, our Polestar, our North Star.
And I just want to remind everybody and remind myself here, really, that God is not an afterthought.
Jesus Christ is not an afterthought.
And that the most important thing we can do in this critical time is get on our knees,
seek God's face, get in that quiet place the most high,
and really ask God for guidance and ask God what we can do to be strong and to tell the truth
and to reach out and to help ourselves and help others.
And just to pray that God lead, guide, and direct us because it's God that is our general, that is our king,
that is in command and only through divine providence and only through divine discernment
can we understand the enemy's plan and defeat it.
We can't do it alone. It's God.
And God is all about free will.
That's why God allows evil in the world because he's a lot of free will.
He's created us in the image of himself so that we can experience the universe.
Each one of us is our own universe, our own conscious universe, our own system
interfacing with the greater universe that God created.
So you think about that.
That's what our souls, our spirit are, those contained information, that universe, that free will.
And the enemy, vampirically, psychically, energetically, wants to sap that. And that's what this whole attack is, ladies and gentlemen.
And so I just want everyone to understand that I love you, I appreciate you, and I'm honored to know you.
And I just pray that God move on all of us with his spirit, his Holy Spirit,
and raise us up and help us be strong in these tribulations, these times
when the whole world government's beginning to form and the mark of the beast is coming in,
but when the enemy comes in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord,
we'll lift up a standard against it.
And it's going to be during these dark times and these years coming ahead
that we're all going to be tested, and our spirits are going to be tested,
our free will is going to be tested, and this is the test.
This is boot camp. This is the trials.
Because nothing good in this universe is free.
And I just seek God's face and say, please help us be strong.
Please help the blow not fall as hard.
Please help many people come through this test as many as possible
and find you and make it through and not have their soul stolen.
And please help our president and please help the people around him to be strong
and to not be manipulated, and please help the American people, people of the world
and law enforcement and the military and everybody to be strong
and to be wide-eyed and be aware of what's happening
and to stop the enemy's plans and to confound their plans
and to sabotage their plans and that the pits they dig for us, that they fall into
and that the enemy be confused and that we be given clarity and vision
so that we can stop these monsters that would seek to destroy our children
and would seek to hurt the little ones that you've admonished us against hurting
so that we can turn the tide from my children and the other children.
We know we've been wicked. We know we don't deserve anything but destruction and hell.
But you sent your son, Jesus, to a primus.
We can protect the children.
We ask you to protect President Trump. We thank you for President Trump.
And we just ask that your spirit move across the leaders of the world to change their hearts.
We ask you to put up a hedge of protection against Obama and Hillary and Soros
and his son and these evil actors that serve their father.
And we thank you for protecting us from Satan and all of his minions.
And we ask you whatever your plan is to protect us as much as you can
but we understand your plan is perfect and that whatever has to happen to us individually, we accept it.
And we thank you for the gift of consciousness and everything you've done.
We just thank you, the awesome creator of the universe.
We just thank you for everything.
And that's why I don't like to pray on air because I start crying but
we all can feel the presence of God with us right now and it's a very, very special time to be alive.
And the whole future destiny of humanity is being chosen and there will be a remnant to make it through this.
And I just am very sad that most people, most flesh is not going to be spared.
And I don't think the tribulation is right around the corner but it is all being fulfilled.
The mark of the beast, the world government not being able to buy or sell.
Giant images, 20 to 50 feet tall described in the Bible of this beast that everyone worships, that speaks.
You ask it questions, it knows everything and it's everywhere in the world and all the town squares and all the homes.
It's a huge hologram.
And then he doesn't have an image.
He has his machines that it describes like locusts, flying locusts and walking locusts.
You think how a locust looks like a helicopter or a drone and how they're just all mechanized and the beast controls it.
And they're all just huge swarms and mountains of fire and, you know, attack ships coming out of the heavens and huge wars.
I mean, this is going to be spectacular.
We're talking huge robot wars, world government plagues being released.
It's going to be unbelievable.
And then if God doesn't move it at the last minute, the whole earth will be destroyed.
I mean, you're going to see all of it.
And it was all envisioned because God gives us free will.
But he also gives you an instruction manual because he's not going to put his children into something like this.
He loves you so much.
He wants you to have free will and it tortures him to see each soul he loses.
But then I wouldn't even call it cheating.
It's not cheating.
He gives us the knowledge.
He gives us the warning and he knows that it'll be at the time when everybody can hear the warning and everybody can see the warning.
And now at a point where almost every person on earth is going to be able to see the warnings and know the warnings and have that decision.
But as they see prophecy fulfilled, as they see prophecy fulfilled, they will then have to know God is real.
And then it's going to get really bad.
And a lot of people that went with the devil are going to actually have the biggest revival ever.
And then the devil is going to say, kill these people and his folks that you see being beta tested with the anti fund, the Democrats and how they're all out.
We kill our babies.
We love the devil.
We love Satan.
This is who they are.
And you have to understand they're just committed to evil.
Like the creator of Minecraft just said, he goes, you know, I used to be like a liberal.
These aren't liberals.
These are these are leftist monsters.
These people are out of control.
These people are demons.
We're going to go to break.
I'm going to come back and do one more segment and then no, Troy is going to take over.
I just want to encourage everyone to remember without your prayers, not your support, we're not going to be here.
Info wars is in your hands and I'm proud of a certain level that we are public enemy number one to Hillary and all these folks like Soros.
But they are working around the clock in real racketeering with the corporations, big tech everywhere to shut us down and demonize me and try to destroy us.
And I just want to be strong for this fight and I want to go on as long as we can.
And that really is up to you.
So we have the biggest sale ever 50% off.
We have free shipping store wide, a bunch of other big specials then for store.com.
And we're having a new Christmas and Black Friday and Cyber Monday, all the sales we had planned out right now.
Because if they take our payment processors, what they're trying to do, they were taking PayPal and they're fighting hard on the others.
I mean, it's total harassment.
Then it will will be in a real crisis.
That's why we want to go ahead and just sell everything out in the warehouse, the super high quality, get your t-shirts, get your books, get your water filters, get it all and help provision us.
So that we're not running on empty if this stuff goes down.
But whatever you do, pray for us and I appreciate you and I thank you.
We'll be right back on the other side.
And I knew we had no future. We didn't do this. So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, m4s.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at m4s.com right now and we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrel's the global Spain win.
This is M4's darkness hour. We're your support. I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
Don't live your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with happiness from InfowarsStore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society.
This new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at InfowarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfowarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO. It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfowarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing, and Survival Still X2 is the pure iodine.
No one else has this from deep earth crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet. It's very hard for me to get. It's the good halogen.
But instead they hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Biotrysilinium goes with it like a horse and carriage. Silinium is an electrochemical. It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together. We have a combo of those. Just experience it for yourself. Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff. Filter your water. Yeah, I find myself some water filters. Best out there for the price when I say it's the last run.
I think it'll be six months or years until we get more. I hope we get more. This is the last run it looks like.
Thanks for watching.
In the distance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
Humanity and goodness doesn't awaken until the enemy is overconfident and launches its full plan.
People say your plan isn't just to take over and be in charge. Your plan is to pull everything down and enslave everybody in just an exercise of raw satanic power.
And the enemy's always, yes, it is a plan. And then people go, whoa, I better fight you. And evil always thinks it's intimidated you.
It has blind spots. It doesn't think a lot of moves ahead. It does the same formulas over and over again.
That's how we've learned how their formulas operate. They think we're weak because those of us that have the sermon can be running everything we wanted to, but we don't desire that.
And so that's why evil is allowed to take over. It's because we don't take our proper place in governance and stewardship over this planet and over the universe.
And until we take our full responsibility to not put up with evil and not be pushed around by it, we will be destroyed.
It doesn't mean I'm on a high horse. It doesn't mean I'm perfect. It doesn't mean I don't repent for things I've done.
But it was always things in the flesh, never consciously trying to screw anybody over, never loving evil.
Now, that said, I want to play a report because I saw this report. I forgot about it and they removed 35,000, 36,000 of our great videos.
And I was reviewing some of my son Rex Jones's incredible videos that he's done lately. And I saw this when he did. Rex Jones challenges David Hogg to a debate from March of this year.
When David Hogg was calling me names and demonizing me and attacking me and lying about me.
And I supposedly said debate me because he'd already challenged me. Then he backed out. My son challenged him.
And so it's these type of videos they don't want out there. So that's why I'm going to re-air this and get it out there.
He's had a million views when they took it down. And I'm just so proud of my son Rex who's now 16. He did this when he was 15.
And I really think he's a man now and I'm really, really proud of him and I love him.
So I thought well we should air this report and then come back with Owen Schreuer on the other side. Here is the report.
Hello Mr. Hogg. My name is Rex Jones and I want to make a public statement about you claiming to speak for my generation about guns.
If you listen real close, you can hear the people in power shaking. They've gotten used to being protective of their position,
chewing safety, the safety of inaction. Inaction is no longer safe. And to that we say no more.
Hogg, you claim that the establishment is shaking in its boots in fear of you. No, they love you. They love gun control. They've wanted this for years.
I could have gotten 51 votes in the Senate of the United States for an outright ban picking up every one of them.
Mr. and Mrs. America, turn them all in. I would have done it.
Here's the legislation that you supported in Georgia, the last assault weapons ban Democrats in your state pushed.
I'm quoting from the legislation right here. The Georgia Bureau of Investigations shall seize and take possession of any assault weapon, large capacity magazine,
armor piercer bullet, or incendiary 50 caliber bullet. Shall seize and take possession of.
It's not enough to simply have a catchy ad on a Monday and then only do it every Monday.
We need to do this every day of the week and just really brainwash people into thinking about guns in a vastly different way.
You've heard people say you'll have to pry my guns on my cold day. Okay.
It is admitted they want to disarm the American people just as they have done with so many corrupt regimes in the past.
Hitler, Stalin, Mao, North Korea. Do you think those places, do you think those corrupt leaders allowed their citizens to have guns?
Do you think the Jews were able to protect themselves when Hitler put them in concentration camps?
No, they were disarmed and that's why they were enslaved.
Hogg, you're a public figure and you call my dad a piece of SHI, you know what?
And you say all kinds of other horrible things. You've challenged him to a debate and then backed out of it.
The fact is, you and your fellow students have been handpicked by the mainstream media to misrepresent the American people
and make it look like the average young American team wants to have their first and second amendment taken away.
Many people in your name, such as CNN, have called for my father to be banned off YouTube and claim that it's bullying to say that it's authoritarianism to repeal the Second Amendment.
Mainstream media uses you as a child human shield so that you can go out and make outrageous statements without anyone being allowed to rebut you without being labeled a bully.
The truth is, Mr. Hogg, that George Soros and the groups funding your anti-gun march are a clear and present danger to this country
and draw clear parallels to Nazi Germany and the authoritarian regimes of the past.
Well, David Hogg, here we are. We're at the Peace Officers Memorial in downtown Austin.
These brave men and women took an oath to uphold the Constitution.
The sheriff in your state did too, but he didn't protect you all.
He stayed outside while the massacre happened and you like to blame that on guns?
I say we shouldn't blame that on guns. We should blame that on the sheriff that failed to act.
But no, you make apologies for him. You said that going down a barrel of an AR-15 is dangerous and you understood why he was scared.
Going down the barrel of an AR-15 is that man's job.
And for you to make apologies for him, it's absolutely disgusting.
The veterans who died in the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812, they died to protect this country from the British.
They died to protect their civil rights in World War II and World War I.
American soldiers went across the globe to protect our freedoms.
You say that those freedoms are obsolete, that no one needs a weapon of war.
Were you taught in school, David Hogg, about how our country was founded?
Were you taught in school that at Lexington and Concord, the British came for our firearms and our weapons?
And we said no, and we defended our country with all of our might and strength.
And that's how we became the most free, the most prosperous and the most successful nation on Earth to the date.
Do you know how that happened?
Brave men and women, like the men and women behind me, stood up and they said, no, we will not submit to tyranny.
And that is what you were doing. You were submitting to tyranny.
You were begging to have the rights that our forefathers fought for stripped away.
You say, yes, please take my rights. I say, no, you're not going to take my rights.
Well, I'm 15 years old, Mr. Hogg, and I don't need talking points or a little teleprompter behind my CNN interview screen to get my point across.
I'm backed up by statistics and facts. You were backed up by falsities and lies.
Mr. Hogg, my dad publicly invited you to come on his show and debate him.
You shied away and crawled back under your rock.
I, Rex Jones, would like to publicly challenge you to debate me.
Name the time, name the place, name the venue. I will do it.
Great job, Rex. We're really proud of you.
And I want to thank the listeners and viewers for supporting InfoWars.
It's because you've supported InfoWars and helped us build this organization and this platform that we're even able to be on the air like this today.
And so we've really built quite an organization and quite an institution, dreaded by the enemy, loved by patriots all over the world.
So for myself and my family and the crew, we want to thank you for supporting InfoWars.
I want to thank the crew who puts up with my frustration with the globalist and sometimes my, let's just say, radioactive personality.
I want to praise them and just give them a round of applause.
And I want to thank all of you again for just standing up for the bullies period and how far we've come.
That said, you have InfoWars in your hands.
It's the truth. You are the word of mouth that gets around the censors now without you spreading the word daily on email, in person, on talk radio, on C-SPAN, however you do it.
The InfoWars Army will be defeated and we're a key flagship of the fight.
The enemy's gunning for us, okay?
And at the same time, without your financial support, we won't be here.
And the enemy, you know, I mean, I'll give you the report. Informationally, we're winning. Culturally, we're winning.
But when it comes to our operational structure itself, they're targeting it.
So we're winning the war, but InfoWars, you know, is on fire, basically, both politically, culturally in a good way, but also financially.
If they're able to shut us down, it will be a big victory for them.
And that's why, as you know, they're trying to shut down our shopping cart, everything right now.
They'll get in there and order the great products, the books, the t-shirts.
Most of you, I know, have been on the fence. You spread the war, but you've never bought any products.
You've never gotten a t-shirt. You've never done stuff like that.
I'm asking you today, that silent majority, to go look at the great products, everybody can take some X2.
Even though we're selling out of it, it's the last run, 50% off.
Everybody can try some brain force, an amazing utropic.
Leading competitors are way more expensive than we are, aren't even as good.
It's 50% off, free shipping store wide right now.
50% off on all the supplements, a bunch of other big discounts, free shipping.
All of those big sales rolled into one.
Christmas, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, all at once at m4store.com.
We're going to run this special throughout the month, but some things we'll be selling out.
But I've said we're going to run this until everything sells out, period.
And so we'll have an emergency war chest, people go into the future, and it'll be hardened against enemy attacks.
All right, the next hours come with Owen Shroyer and more.
Back in studio tomorrow, infowars.com, tomorrow's news today.
Years ago, Info Wars Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on, and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development,
this formula uses wild anchovy fish oil,
ultra-purified krill oil,
and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula,
you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from infowarslife at infowarsstore.com.
Coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
The left is unhinged,
as Antifa smashes windows,
disturbed, enraged,
hunting down the very people who backed Trump,
and killed a woman with eggs.
It's a tactic.
You cannot be civil.
November 6, 2018, say no to the mob.
And there's the sounds of the deranged Democrat shooting up the Republican baseball practice.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show.
Owen Schroyer here with you, Alex Jones.
We'll be back in the next segment with some more news.
But we come in with that compilation put together by 4America on Twitter.
And it's familiar to the GOP ad that came out last month
where you just put together a bunch of clips of the Democrats calling for violence,
and then the leftist protesters in the streets actually getting violent.
So the Democrats have turned into a angry mob,
and their rhetoric proves this, the actions in the street prove this.
But when you call a Democrat what they are, they tend to get angry.
So the Democrats call for angry mobs, they become an angry mob,
and then people say, hey look, you've become an angry mob.
Now look at this compilation of the Democrat media denying that they've become an angry mob.
Oh, you're not going to use the mob word here.
They are protesting, they are not an angry mob.
You are so human.
Answer your question, you asked her, is it mob behavior?
No, it's not.
He's created this idea of a mob.
But calling them mobs in the way that the leader McConnell has done, it's just wrong.
They are ripping up signs, hitting them.
In the Constitution, you can protest whenever and wherever you wanted.
We believe in the likes of you.
It's a mass, a mob stop, stop.
This kind of like racialized mob language, this kind of Nixonian law and order language that we're hearing about.
The angry mob, the angry mob, the angry mob, even though these were just peaceful protesters.
Peaceful.
Republicans are running on this idea that the left is an angry mob.
That's not an idea, that's a fact.
They are harassing congressmen.
Here they are mobbing in DC.
Here they are mobbing in DC, a guy with a sign, they got arrested.
Here's a male feminist kicking a woman in the face.
Which side was more mob-like?
Clearly, it was the Republicans.
The president was trying to go too far with some of this rhetoric, you know, his talk of mob rule and so on.
I mean, Brooke, have you been to a Trump rally?
Rushing to the top of the Supreme Court and now besieging the front door of the Supreme Court.
That was pretty wild, huh?
So there you go.
The Democrats have created, formed and mobilized an angry mob.
But if you dare call them an angry mob, what?
We're not an angry mob, we're peaceful protesters, you're the angry mob.
These people are totally delusional, totally unhinged, and quite frankly, dangerous.
Ladies and gentlemen, dangerous.
Alex Jones on the other side.
It's easy to install and maintain and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems,
it's time to go big and go home with the pro-pure, whole house filtration system today.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
We cannot continue to rely only on our military in order to achieve the national security objectives that we've set.
We've got to have a civilian national security force that's just as powerful, just as strong, just as well funded.
Michelle Wood says, you know, when they go low, we go high. No. When they go low, we kick them.
That's what this new Democratic Party's about.
Remember Obama said he was building a domestic military? Well, that's what anti-fun all these leftist groups are.
And now the former Attorney General, Eric Holder, is giving them the orders to become more violent.
This country is in a national emergency and they're launching it to attempt to overthrow the restoration of our republic.
If you just joined us on this Worldwide Thursday broadcast, this is an emergency alert to the American people and people of the world.
As I've been saying all week, the Democrats are ratcheting up towards open insurrection against the republic and against the 2016 election and violent terror attacks.
If you just joined us last hour, it's obviously come out that a New York man has been arrested and it's confessed to planning to build a 200-pound bomb to get into an election day to basically suspend the election.
You've got major editors of magazines saying that, you know, Congressmen's Colleges deserve to be shot and that the Democrats are defending themselves.
You've got anti-fun run by George Soros, the Democrats and others just engaging in massive hype for violence and full-page ads saying overthrow Trump, overthrow Pence, overthrow the First Amendment.
You have big tech and all these groups working to do this.
You have Hillary arrogantly preparing to run in 2020, 26 days out, and now the clip you just heard of the former attorney general, Eric Holder, who was deputy attorney general
when the Oklahoma City bombing happened that was blamed on talk radio and that 100% was synthetic staged by the deep state and the Clintons.
Even mainline analysts that know that information that were eyewitnesses, that's a whole other subject.
The point is these people have a history of this.
There he is giving a speech saying when they go low, we kick them, kick them, kick them, and then they go fight, fight, fight.
That means violence.
And so they are giving the orders, they are giving the programming, they are giving the activation.
And we've got the documents that fell into our hands in January of this year, which they confirm are accurate with the Soros group trying to start martial law in 2015 for Obama
using Antifa to try to trick black community into rioting.
It didn't work.
All the race baiting, all the shows, all the cop killing, all of the hype, all the black lives matter.
That is all to create a race war, all the movies, all the TV shows, race war, race war, race war.
This is what Django Unchained and all of this is to manipulate black people into thinking there's a race war so that they can trigger this.
But black folks have not bought it.
Now double the number of blacks, actually triple, that have ever supported Trump, are now in polls.
Same thing for Hispanics, the globalists are panicking.
But let's play this clip one more time of Eric Holder, this slime bag, the guy that said you have to literally brainwash gun owners to turn their guns in.
The guy with this whole history of protecting terrorist groups and taking radical Islamic groups off the terror list.
And the guy famously for infiltrating and creating white supremacist groups and trying to hype up those idiot moron groups as well to create a clash.
This is the individual that thinks you're an idiot.
Michelle Wood says, you know, when they go low, we go high.
No.
When they go low, we kick them.
So think about that.
26 days out, this is just escalating, escalating, seeing what they can get away with, hoping that the grassroots minions go out there and actually carry out attacks.
You're seeing trucks being torched and offices being attacked and Congress people being shot, people's ribs being caved in like Rand Paul and the death threats.
And any Fox News host goes out and gets chased down the street and left this area as her drinks get thrown on to them.
I mean, it's happening to everybody.
And these people are so entitled, they either scream rapist or KKK.
It's KKK, get him.
I mean, you talk about a cult where they teach you a hypnotic word like rapist or a term like KKK.
They probably don't even know what that idiot term stands for.
And they just go completely insane.
It's like a training and attack dog, you know, to stay in German attack.
And then the German shepherd attacks somebody.
They just go KKK.
I mean, this is beyond 1984, 10 minutes of hate brainwashing.
So there's no doubt now that they're trying to launch terror attacks.
They've watched terror attacks.
They are all calling for violence.
They're completely out of control.
And it's all because America's coming back.
It's all because they've been trained to hate America as grassroots leftist.
They've been trained to be inherently evil.
They're sacrament of dead babies.
And they feel the spirit of goodness and just optimism coming back.
And they don't know what to do.
They don't know how to handle it.
They don't know how to deal with a humanity that's awakening to their tyranny.
And so they're just totally throwing fits in an attempt to pressure us back into submission
that it is not going to work.
The PSYOP is not working.
So they're going to engage in massive election frauds.
What Soros does, control an interest in half the voting machines in the country.
They've got to be absolutely watched.
Everybody has got to be on target.
You've got to get everybody you know to go out and vote.
And you've got to just be super, super aggressive and call in politically and peacefully.
All the talk shows you name it.
Remember, remember how when I said Antifa says they're coming to your house to kill you, Congress.
And members of law enforcement need to have your battle rivals by your bed to defend yourself.
They took me off Twitter and said, national news every channel.
Alex Jones called for battle rivals to be used to kill the innocent loving media.
And of course, it was all lie.
Total hoax never showed the clip.
They would show edited, you know, words, one word here, one word there, like word salad and your refrigerator, magnet game.
This is the total war footing they're on.
Total push.
And the Democrats this weekend were in Politico saying, we're going to get even more ruthless.
Well, we're up against a criminal group trying to push us into violence.
And it won't matter.
They're going to stage events and blame it on us.
They're going to stage events and blame me.
And I always knew this was coming if we were successful enough to unseat them.
And so I'm taking one for the team here.
But we can't let them when they stage it blame me or Trump or other Liberty groups because it's going to be pure crap.
So don't buy into the blown up school or whatever or the blown up Washington mall when they say, you know, Alex Jones fan did it.
And then up front, oh, we're so sorry we condemn him.
So they used to condemn you with all the other fake reports all the other straw man, where everybody's in like parents goes, we condemn him, we condemn him, we condemn him.
Alex Jones is a Nazi, we condemn him, we condemn him.
Alex Jones says nobody died at Parkland not true, we can them him we condemn him, we condemn him Alex Jones keeps saying nobody died at Sandy Cook, but saying for years, I believe it happened.
And then they go, we can dem him, we can dem him, we can dem him.
Alex Jones hates gays, we can dem him, we can dem him.
None of this is true.
They just say it.
Alex Jones hates black people. We condemn him. We condemn him. We condemn him.
This is how they operate, okay? And so then, Alex Jones' supporter blew up the college, blew up the leftist professor meeting.
His fan did it. Alex Jones told the guy to do it. It'll be a total lie.
We condemn him. We condemn him. We condemn him. We say kill him. We say, see, this is how they do it.
And so it's the same. Trump says all Mexicans are criminals and he hates them.
We condemn him. We condemn him. We condemn him. None of it's true.
The economy's not growing better than Obama. We condemn him. We condemn him. We condemn him.
Trump is a complete idiot. We condemn him. And then Nikki Haley, who can hardly talk.
She looks like she's on a bunch of Prozac or something. It's like this little leftist darling.
Hey, little Q. Little point for everybody. For people to Q into here.
Little star by this. If the mainstream media likes you, you're not good.
She was brought in. She was a total Trojan horse. Trump's not letting them have the fight they want, so she resigned.
But let me tell you, Nikki Haley's going to run against Trump.
And I mean, you know, she's just a dumbered in a box of rocks and they love her. The establishment loves her.
Alright, back to Owen Schreuer in the ATX. I should be back in the studio for the full transmission tomorrow.
Don't forget we have election night coverage. Kicked off the first time last night. I was supposed to be there.
But I was just too exhausted and I had a muffler problem in my car.
It sounded like a rocket ship. The muffler got broken. I hit a bump in the road.
And so I was not there last night. But I'll try to be there tonight.
But regardless, 8 to 10 p.m. with Millie Weaver and Rob Do and David Knight and all the rest of the great crew.
Alright, infowars.com, newswars.com. Spread those articles. Spread those videos. George Soros hates it when you do.
Alright, ladies and gentlemen, now when we come back, I've got tons of clips to get to and tons of news.
Seriously, it's every day now a new act of violence or call to violence from the Democrat Party. This is out of control.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
B-E-R-K-E-Y
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement, and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too. If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, or go to my website, danpilla.com, that's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
X2. We were selling it for about three years, and then they found out how big it was, and I went to where we were buying, and they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract, and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2.
It literally is so pure that if you put in a peaker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate, it gasses, like I dream of genie, and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago, so I get the price down, and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I wrote the contract last week, and so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run of survival shield X2, and we've got a good supply of it, but it'll be gone a couple months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, M4store.com. If you have experienced it, you know how great it is, I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time at M4store.com right now.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. It's Alex Jones. And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
That's right. Here we are back in Austin, Texas, live.
I've got news to get to a ton of video clips that I'm going to get to in the next segment.
Before I go any farther, though, just want to give a shout out to our affiliates in Florida that got hit by Hurricane Michael.
WYOO101.1 FM in Panama City, WPNN790 AM in Pensacola, WFDM 1400 AM in Fort Walton Beach. Our thoughts and prayers are with you guys.
And luckily, Hurricane Michael wasn't so large in its mass that it really kind of just hit a concentrated area, but the flood waters are rising there.
So hopefully, you know, the damage and everything is not too catastrophic, but wanted to give a shout out to them.
You know, there's one thing we know about the left in America. All of their buzz phrases are lies.
And it's amazing because you can point this out with irrefutable fact, and that's what makes them so angry.
That's why they get so mad because you have the facts that totally destroy their reality. And instead of doing the open-minded thing, the tolerant thing, the right thing,
which is taking a step back and realizing you're wrong about something, no, they double down and get violent.
What am I talking about? Believe women. Women must be heard. How many times did we hear that during the Kavanaugh hearings?
How big of a lie is that? Did they listen to the women that stood up for Judge Kavanaugh that were friends with him in high school and throughout his life?
Nope. Did they listen to the women that accused with evidence and corroborating facts? Keith Ellison? Nope.
How about the treatment that Candace Owens and Ann Coulter get when they want to go speak at a campus and they get threatened and violence breaks out?
So, so women must be heard, right? No, that's a lie. How about Black Lives Matter?
Sure. Black Lives Matter, that is until a black person thinks differently. Just look at Will Johnson. Just look at Kanye West.
Oh, yeah, Black Lives Matter. Hey, I kind of like Trump. Wow, you, Uncle Tom.
Another lie of the left. But, you know, I was thinking about this last night.
And then the next segment, I'm going to play all these clips, folks, that just...
I mean, you already know it, but it's like we have to put it out there into the ether so that it sinks in that the Democrat Party is trying to start.
I mean, you can call it whatever, civil war, mob rule, whatever, anarchy, violence, chaos, destruction.
It's all being caused by the Democrats. They know exactly what they're doing. But here's the key.
Because I tend to look at things from a psychological perspective. I just can't help it.
And last night, I almost... I basically had... I don't want to say a vision. I didn't have a vision.
But the psychology of the left became clear to me in my head, in a vision.
Basically, the psychology of the left. Imagine, if you will, a room full of cardboard boxes.
And every cardboard box, you're in a leftist mind, every cardboard box represents an individual.
So, let's say you're a gay person. Well, the left puts you in a box. You see, this is the leftist box for gay people.
And everything that they believe about gay people exists in that box, and every gay person must exist in that box.
Okay, let's move on. A black man, let's say. Alright, they got a black man in a box.
The black man must think this way. They must hate Trump. They must hate this. They must feel this.
Yeah, that's a great picture. That is a leftist mind right there. It is a room full of boxes.
A room full of taped up cardboard boxes. Now, what does this mean? This means they're closed-minded.
This means they have no room for growth. They have no room for expansion. And their entire mental makeup is 100% based off of identity,
which they then put into a box and stack up neatly in their mind.
So, okay, white male. They go into the white male box. Oh, racist, you know, bigot, all the other things.
That is unless they come out as a good liberal. And then all of a sudden, the whole box thing kind of just fades away,
and it's just, oh, except in, you know, a guilty-to-proven Democrat.
So, the leftist mind is just boxes stacked on top of one another of every identity and race and person and whatever.
And it's just there and it's permanent and it's static. And the boxes can never, you know, go into one another because they've created lines.
So, you can't morph ideas. People can never come together because they have them all in these boxes.
And that's the only way that they think people can coexist is if everyone is in their nice little box and then they can stack them up
and have everybody in their nice box and then virtue signal and social justice warrior the entire thing.
So, just imagine that. That is a leftist brain. That is a leftist psychology.
Every person is put into a box. And if you don't fit in that box, they freak out.
It's honestly like a next level of OCD. It probably is some next higher level social level of OCD.
They have like a social OCD where everyone has to exist in their little boxes and they have to put these little boxes in perfect order.
And if anybody steps outside of the box, if anybody pokes a hole in the box and look at what might be on the other side,
they totally panic and their entire psychology breaks down into madness and hysteria.
That's what we're seeing, folks, because their psychology of everyone being in a box is not reality.
And so now they're seeing this, oh, black people think differently, white people are not racist, like all of this crap,
and they don't know what to do because in their mind, everyone's in a box and stacked away perfectly in perfect order,
like an OCD person's desk. It's like imagine walking up to an OCD person's desk and, you know, pushing the stapler to the other side
and then they get back and they're like, oh my gosh, how did my stapler get on the right side of my desk? What is going on?
And then they have like a panic and a breakdown. Everybody knows people like this.
It's a mental thing. It's a psychological thing. People have been diagnosed with these things. People know that they're OCD.
That's the leftist mind. And so as soon as you go into the leftist mind and you maybe move a box around
or a black man steps out of the box that they put him in, it's total panic, total outrage, total hysteria,
and that's where we're at right now because the average leftist has put everything in a box, arranged it perfectly in their mind,
and that's what makes them comfortable because that, no, oh, I understand everything. I know everything.
I've got everything in the box perfectly organized. I've labeled everyone. I've identified everybody. I get it.
It's an authoritarian in its nature, but it's a psychological OCD on a social level in its practice.
And so this is why they're going into complete panic right now.
They're OCD. They're social OCD people who have put everyone in a box, put a label on everyone, except the problem is you can't do that.
That's not how the world works. People's minds change. People have all kinds of different varying ideas.
But that's why the leftist is panicked because in their OCD mind, everything has to be in the little box where they've put it.
So when Kanye West steps out of the box and puts holes in other boxes saying, hey, look through the box, they go into total hysteria and total madness.
That's where we're at.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit Gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate Bone Broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, Ultimate Bone Broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfowarsStore.com.
With our powerhouse formula, Happys can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, Happys helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happys from InfowarsStore.com.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water, to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy, and drive to get to the gym, get to the park, and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone. This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality, so I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality from InfowarsStore.com.
So the left right now is going into total madness, and at the top, with the Democrat Party and the people that fund these movements, George Soros, they are trying to incite a civil war.
They know what they're doing. These are international criminals, ladies and gentlemen, of the highest order.
Who have had their hands on the levers of power, world power, economic power for decades, whose criminal, cabal, and empire is being threatened.
So yeah, they'll start a little civil war, no problem. It's exactly what people like Hillary Clinton and Eric Holder are doing right now, but let's go to these clips to really break this down.
And now I want to be clear, because we've already put 5, 10, 20 compilations together of the left calling for violence, and then the violence happening.
Breitbart has the rap sheet over 600 documented accounts of assault against Trump supporters. So I just want to be clear.
The clips that I'm playing right for you today are just from the last week, just from this week, just this week.
We've already put the clips of the two, three years of all the compilations of the left. You know it. So I just want to be clear. This is just from this week.
This is just a sample from this week of what's been going on for three years.
But let's go first to Angela Rye on CNN, stoking the flames of racial violence.
Is Donald Trump making America great again?
So I take issue with the question, frankly, Chris, because for me, for my community,
frankly, he has struggled to be great for some time. So when you say again, it's actually an emotional trigger for many of us because I'm trying to harken back to when that again was right.
During the election, Donald Trump supporters were asked when America was at its greatest and his supporters more often than not replied with some time around the 1950s.
That's a lie. That's a lie. She makes that up.
What looked like me is that that was before integration existed in this country, right? That was the era of Jim Crow laws and segregation that resulted in economic depression that to this day we struggled to climb out of.
And so I would just ask when that again is. That doesn't mean at all.
That's because of the Democrat Party. I don't believe it is the promise of the American dream, but I don't see it happening right now for us.
So there's Angela Rye on CNN basically saying, no, Trump's racist. America's racist. It's never been great. Screw you. Everyone's racist.
So there she is stoking flames of a racial war lying about Trump supporters, lying about America.
It's funny for a black woman. She's done pretty well. I mean, multi-millionaire goes on tours. Must be tough. Being Angela Rye must be tough.
Now let's go to CNN again. Listen to what they said about Kanye West.
Kanye West is what happens when Negroes don't read.
And we have this now and now Donald Trump is going to use it and pervert it and he's going to have somebody who can stand with him and take pictures.
That's funny to CNN.
Listen, black folks are about to trade Kanye West in the racial draft.
They've had it with him and he's an attention whore like the president.
He's all of a sudden now the model spokesperson. He's the token Negro of the Trump administration.
This is ridiculous and no one should be taking Kanye West seriously.
He's clearly has issues. He's already been hospitalized. He's already been hospitalized.
So what are they saying? They're saying black people face off against white people.
They're saying black people face off against America, face off against Trump, face off against Republicans, face off against the whitey.
Why aren't you facing off? Why aren't yes, get involved in hate, get involved in the race war.
That's what that CNN segment's all about.
But notice they degrade Kanye West there and then they say, oh, he had to seek psychiatric help, therefore he's not allowed to have an opinion.
Oh, so now anybody who's ever had to seek psychiatric help for whatever, I guess, doesn't get an opinion anymore.
But you know what? Let's just play the left card here.
No, I think they hate Kanye West because he's black.
So there's CNN again, stoking the flames of racial hatred, racial division.
Now let's go to Bernie Sanders, the, I mean, this guy, next level, calling for worldwide communism being mobilized.
Go to Sanders now.
It is time for us to stand up and say there is a better way to use our wealth.
Stand up in closing. Let me simply state that in order to effectively combat the forces of global oligarchy and authoritarianism.
Come back.
So there's Bernie Sanders saying we need to mobilize, you know, we need to have worldwide communism, mobilize, fight back, stand up against the forces of evil.
So here again, now Sanders is the leading Marxist here.
But it's just the same thing, guys.
All right, let's go to the next one now.
So again, we've got CNN causing racial division.
Here's Bernie Sanders causing, you know, economic division, you know, fight back, mobilize.
Now let's go to Hillary Clinton, who just goes full on, let's have a civil war.
You cannot be civil with a political party that wants to destroy what you stand for, what you care about.
That's why I believe if we are fortunate enough to win back the House and or the Senate, that's when civility can start again.
That's a threat of terror.
The only thing that the Republicans seem to recognize and respect is strength.
That is a threat of terrorism.
You better vote Democrats in or we're going to continue to be violent.
Hillary Clinton just threatened domestic terrorism.
Hillary Clinton just called for a civil war saying you can't be civil with Republicans.
Yeah, go out, beat them, kill them, stop them, kick them.
Oh wait, Hillary didn't say kick them.
That was Eric Holder.
She always says, you know, when they go low, we go high.
No.
When they go low, we kick them.
So there you go.
So here, there's all the clips.
That's just from this week.
That is from this week.
The Democrats calling for racial division.
The Democrats calling for economic division.
The Democrats calling for civil war.
The Democrats calling for violence.
Literally.
And that's just this week.
Just this week.
But then you say, you guys need to calm down.
You guys are out of control.
You're forming an angry mob.
All the evidence in the world of it.
Just look at what happened during the Kavanaugh confirmation.
These people are totally unhinged, out of control.
And so you say, you guys need to relax.
You're causing an angry mob.
Here's how they respond.
Oh, you're not going to use the mob word here.
They are protesting.
They are not an angry mob.
Answer your question that you asked her.
Is it mob behavior?
No.
And he's created this idea of a mob.
But calling the mobs in the way that the leader McConnell has done,
it's just wrong.
In the Constitution, you can protest whenever and wherever you wanted.
It's not even true.
Can't come into my house and protest, man.
This kind of like racialized mob language,
this kind of Nixonian lawn order language that we're hearing about.
The angry mob, the angry mob, the angry mob,
even though these were just peaceful protesters.
Republicans are running on this idea that the left is an angry mob.
So this is incredible.
Now let's recall, what did they say about Trump rallies?
When Trump rallies are just loving, peaceful people,
it's just a good time.
It's genuinely a good time. I've been to dozens of them.
And then what did they say?
The Trump rally is an angry mob.
No, it's not. It's loving people. Go try one.
It's a great time.
But then they're out of control.
They assault women.
There's a video of male feminists kicking a woman in the face.
They're an angry mob and they say, we're not an angry mob.
And then you literally have all the evidence against them.
I mean, folks, I'm going to say it until I'm blue in the face
until the cows come home.
We are dealing with mass mental illness in this country, ladies and gentlemen.
We have mass mental illness in this country.
That is not a joke. That is a serious issue.
Well, thank you so much.
If you deserve and experience the power of knockout, head on over to infowarslife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue, that's infowarslife.com.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel
it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied
probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all
day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against
stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support
your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt
justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and
why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us and if you spread
the word about our articles and videos, infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against
these brutal scum bags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at infowarsstore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you, despite
the fact we're trying to block our commerce, and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Glove will stay with
you.
This is InfoWars Darker Sour.
We do your support.
I'm counting on you.
InfoWarsLife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winner
Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winner Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent
laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now, the tip of the spear, leading the fight to take back the nation, it's Owen
Troyer, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So let me get this straight, Brett Kavanaugh, happily married for multiple decades, has multiple
legitimate children, class act, been a judge, even a federal judge for a long time, multiple
FBI background checks, stellar record, knocks it all out of the park.
He gets nominated for the Supreme Court, all of a sudden he's a rapist, all of a sudden
he's a womanizer, he's a belligerent drunk.
And what do we have?
Thousands of protests across the nation stop Brett Kavanaugh.
Brett Kavanaugh and the Supreme Court means we're all going to die.
Like total panic over Brett Kavanaugh because of a fake accusation against him.
So clearly fake.
I mean, it's ridiculous.
And it's as funny as a $3 bill.
Okay, but that's my reality.
Now on the other side of the table, Bill and Hillary Clinton have just announced a nationwide
tour.
Tickets are on sale for as much as $2,500 for Bill and Hillary's speaking tour coming
up, which is basically her campaigning for 2020.
So I'm guessing the leftist mobs of protesters are going to show up at the Bill and Hillary
Clinton speaking tours to protest Bill Clinton and all his sexual assaults, right?
That's right.
They're going to show up because of the rape and sexual assault and all the documented
cases of Bill Clinton abusing women.
They're going to show up and protest at those events, right?
No, they're not, are they?
And why is that, folks?
Because they are in a cult.
The left is in a cult and its minions, unfortunately, are brainwashed and mentally deranged people.
I don't say that as an insult.
I'm not a doctor.
I'm not diagnosing them.
It's called common sense.
It's called, I see it with my own two frickin' eyes.
Boy, it'd be a shame if the Info Wars Army penetrated the Bill and Hillary Clinton speaking
tour, wouldn't it?
Wouldn't that just be a shame if the Info Wars Army was in attendance at these events
and asked Bill Clinton why people don't protest his sexual assaults?
Ask Hillary why she doesn't condemn Bill Clinton for his sexual assaults?
Boy, that'd be awful for the Info Wars Army to do.
The Info Wars Army should not get tickets to the Bill and Hillary Clinton speaking tour
and then film themselves shouting out, Bill Clinton is a rapist, or asking Hillary Clinton
why she won't condemn and disavow Bill Clinton for all of his rapes.
And why doesn't the left protest these events?
The Info Wars Army should not do that.
The Info Wars Army should not show up to the Hillary and Bill Clinton speaking tour and
hit them with facts and show them what a real protest looks like, what real activism looks
like, not fake astroturf.
So the Info Wars Army should not try to get into the Bill and Hillary speaking tours.
I doubt Laura Loomer's going to do it either, of course she's banned, they won't even let
her within 50 feet of a Clinton event, but she'll probably find a way to get in.
So there you go folks, but are people going to show up acting like demonic freaks because
Bill Clinton is getting paid?
By the way, keep this in mind, people are paying hundreds and thousands of dollars,
just pull it up so people know I'm not making this up.
Tickets are on sale for thousands of dollars to these events.
Thousands of dollars to see Bill and Hillary Clinton speak, okay?
This is just their first event in Vegas.
If you go to New York or Boston, you're talking $2,000, $3,000 for seats.
Yeah, here we go.
Here's the take, thousands of dollars for tickets to see Bill and Hillary in Vegas.
And on the East Coast, it's double that.
So, but Donald Trump, meanwhile, he has events, tens of thousands of people.
It's free.
Oh my God, $10,000, $10,000 for a ticket to see Bill and Hillary.
Do you realize how insane our reality is?
Do you realize how insane our world is?
Bill and Hillary Clinton are two of the biggest criminals in world history.
I mean, they have done it, all folks.
Allegedly human trafficking, allegedly drug trafficking, allegedly raping people, allegedly
rigging elections.
I mean, the Clinton body count, and they go on a speaking tour, no leftist protests.
$10,000 ahead to see him, I mean, what?
And then Trump goes somewhere, or Kavanaugh gets nominated, and it's just total panic
for these people.
Wow, this is a mob cult, a mob cult that the Democrats have created.
And now they're saying, vote Democrat or we're going to start a civil war.
Now they're saying, vote Democrat or we're going to just outright engage in domestic
terror.
Now they've already been doing that.
Now they're just admitting it.
Now they're just telling you, because all their other tactics haven't worked.
So now they figured, let's just go ahead and threaten them with violence.
We've already been doing the violence, but somehow they just tolerate it.
So let's actually threaten them with violence and say, if you don't vote Democrat, we're
going to start a civil war, we're going to kick you in the teeth, we're going to kill
you.
And that's where the Democrats are at now.
Of course, people at the top, Eric Holder, Hillary Clinton, they know that what they're
doing, those are just the criminal cult leaders.
Yeah, there's the perfect meme right there.
Hillary Clinton holding America suicide, or Hillary Clinton holding America captive.
So 10,000 bucks to see Bill and Hillary Clinton, oh my, I'm stunned.
And I already knew the tickets were up over $2,000, $3,000, but that just blew my mind.
And people will pay it.
This, all right, I'm sorry, it's just, it's moments like these, the reality of it all,
it's like I get like mind paralyzed or something.
So let's go to this clip though.
This is Kanye West visiting the White House, just so much veritas in this.
And this is why the left is so mad, because Kanye West left his little box.
The left put Kanye West in a box with no holes in it.
They said, Kanye, sit in your little box, this is what we do.
And then Kanye West said, you know what, I'm gonna step out of my box and I'm gonna poke
holes in other people's boxes so that they can see the world around them.
And the left went in a total panic.
And here is, this is gonna be a viral moment, this is gonna be, I mean, this clip is gonna
be viral because it's gonna be very powerful for the Trump Make America Great Again movement.
But it's also gonna be very devastating to the left, so they're gonna go into a conniption
fit over it.
This is Kanye West visiting with President Trump in the Oval Office.
Friends, but this hat, it gives me power in a way.
My dad and my mom separated, so I didn't have a lot of male energy in my home.
And also, I'm married to a family that, you know, there's not a lot of male energy going
on.
It's beautiful though, but there's times where, you know, it's something about, you know,
I love Hillary, I love everyone, right?
But the campaign I'm with her just didn't make me feel as a guy that didn't get to see
my dad all the time, like a guy that could play catch with his son.
It was something about when I put this hat on, it made me feel like Superman.
You made a Superman, that's my favorite superhero.
And you made a Superman cape for me, also as a guy that looks up to you, looks up to
you, looks up to American industry guys, non-political, no bullshit, put the beef on it, how do you
want to do it, five seconds delay, and just goes in and gets it done.
Right now, you gave me the heart to go to Adidas, because at Adidas, when I went in
in 2015, we were a $14 billion company losing $2 billion a year.
Now we have a $38 billion market cap, it's called the Yeezy Effect.
And I went to Casper, we had a meeting in Chicago, and I said, you have to bring manufacturing
onshore, that is onshore, into the core, it's not about the borders, the core of Adidas,
and Chicago is the core of middle America, we have to make middle America strong, so
I had the balls, because I had enough balls to put on this hat, I mean this Adidas thing
may be a billionaire, and I could have lost $200 million walking away from that deal,
but even with that.
So there is just a clip of Kanye West in the White House meeting with Trump, but, see,
and again, Kanye, I mean he's not even political, he looks at things from a very stagmatic point,
which is just a pragmatic point, excuse me, which is the American economy was stagnated,
and he said, why don't we bring the jobs back, he's a businessman, he's seen them shipped
overseas, he's seen what the Democrats have done to the inner cities, so he just looks
at it pragmatically like, well hold on a second, let's bring the jobs back, let's bring the
manufacturing back, and Trump wants to do that, and this is good for America, this is
good for the inner cities.
And then he sees all the attacks, oh racist, woman on the above, and he's like, whoa, what's
going on here guys, calm down, Trump is actually just trying to make America great again, you
know, economically, what are we freaking out about all this stuff for?
But then, then he says, putting on the MAGA hat is like wearing a Superman cape, nothing
triggers the left more than that statement folks, I'm telling you, it's time to start
wearing MAGA hats out, and tweeting out and saying it, oh this is like my Superman cape,
my MAGA hat's my Superman cape, because it does give you the power, the power of not
being intimidated, no fear.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body, that's why I'm introducing Z-Shield.
Toxic metal and chemical defense support, it's made in the USA, it's filled with known
compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports
the info war, it is a classical 360 win, this is the formula that I personally have been
taking for over a year, and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it
comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this
country and the world, that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as
you can be, because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires
the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be, thanks to your support and
your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield and InfoWarsLive.com.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing, and Survival
Still X2 is the pure iodine, no one else has this, from deep earth crystals between
7 and 12,000 feet, it's very hard for me to get, it's the good halogen, but instead they
hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you,
phyllo, all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Silenium goes with it, like a horse of carriage, selenium is an electrochemical, it's kneaded
as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons, so these go incredibly well together,
we have a combo of those, just experience it for yourself, why do you think they fear
me so much?
Very simple stuff, filter your water, yeah I find myself selling water filters, best
out there for the price, when I say it's the last run, it can be 6 bucks a year until we
get more.
This is the last run it looks like, Survival Still X2, InfoWarsTour.com or InfoWarsLife.com
or AAA-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show, you are listening to an InfoWars.com frontline
report, if you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance, and now your host
Owen Shroyer.
The left and the Democrats have created an angry mob, the left and the Democrats have
created an angry mob, wait what's that, Brooke Baldwin wants to weigh in on this, Brooke
Baldwin from CNN, the Democrats and the left have created an angry mob, I mean this is
undeniable right?
Because I believe it's the overreaction of the left, when you see people like Ted Cruz
getting chased out of restaurants by a mob, oh you're not going to use the mob word here,
it's totally a mob, it is without a doubt, there's no other word for it, it's a mob stop,
a mob is what we saw in Charlottesville, Virginia two Augusts ago, a mob is not what
we saw chasing, I'm not saying what they did was right.
What about the people who were at the Supreme Court banging on the walls, what do you call
that, civil protest or is that a mob, I think it's easily a mob.
Yeah, and if there were two parties we'd call it a mob for sure, come on, let's be serious.
Yeah, let me move past the M word because I do feel like that is part of the weaponization
of what's happening now on the right, but at the same time I think you do make a really
interesting point.
So I guess it's not an angry mob or it is an angry mob, so if it is an angry mob it's
not an angry mob though, I'm just trying to figure this out because I see an angry mob,
the Brooke Baldwin said it's not an angry mob.
Hey Owen, really, I just wanted to say that's a nice black tie you got there today man.
What?
Yeah, that one.
This is not a black tie?
What?
This, come on guys, this is not a black tie, come on, come on.
It's definitely a black tie.
No guys, stop it.
This is not a black tie, I don't have a black tie on, next thing you're gonna say I got
a black jacket on too, aren't you?
That's a black jacket.
Oh my gosh, stop it guys, come on, let's get serious now, this is not a black tie, this
is not a black jacket, okay, let's just get serious.
Of course, this is a joke because we see a leftist angry mob and look how the media reports
it.
Oh, you're not gonna use the mob word here.
They are protesting, they are not an angry mob.
You are so human, we're done being polite.
Answer your question that you asked her, is it mob behavior, no it's not a mob?
He's created this idea of a mob.
This is not a mob banging on the halls of Congress, come on.
If we're calling them mobs in the way that the leader McConnell has done, it's just wrong.
It's just wrong, this is not a mob, this is not mob behavior, ripping up signs, hitting
women in the face and hitting men and assaulting this, this is not a mob.
You can protest whenever and wherever you want.
That's right, go into their houses, where they sleep, protest in there.
It's a mass, a mob stop, stop.
What is this brook following, this is not a mob, mass, this kind of racialized mob
language, this kind of Nixonian lawn order language that we're hearing about.
The angry mob, the angry mob, the angry mob, even though these were just peaceful protestors.
Republicans are running on this idea that the left is an angry mob.
Stop this, there's no mob, there's no anger.
When you come down on Brett Kavanaugh describing protestors as a mob, doesn't come down.
Come on, these are not angry mobs, look at these people getting angry and rage, that's
not an angry mob.
Kill her three-year-old child.
There's a male feminist just kicking a woman in the face, that's not an angry mob, come
on.
This is ridiculous, there's no mob folks.
He is a nice looking black guy.
This is not a black tie, these guys, these are not angry mobs, this is not a black tie,
this is not info wars, this is not the Alex Jones show, stop it with this angry mob nonsense.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official oil formula, or just want
an alternative, info wars life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Cril Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and Omega
3's found in our high quality ultra pure Cril Oil concentrate.
Consaining powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega 3's, ultimate Cril Oil can help
you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart
health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping
to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other Cril Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you
the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality Cril Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what Cril Oil
can do for you with Ultimate Cril Oil, now available at infowarsstore.com.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government coverups.
You want to stop tyranny, well so does he, live from the infowars.com studios.
Alex Jones.
And now, your host, Owen Troyer.
Well, I'm a little confused right now because I saw an angry mob but I was told it wasn't
an angry mob and someone said I had a black tie on but it's not a black tie and so I'm
just a little confused and disoriented and it's kind of depressing me because I don't
think I'm a racist but they keep saying I'm a racist and all of this stuff so it's kind
of got me down, now they're trying to censor me.
Sorry about what happened last time man but I just want to let you know, if you try the
new info wars product, Happys, that might help out with your issues going on right now.
Happys you say?
Happys.
Where could I find some of this Happys?
Well maybe to your right, look down, up, sit down.
Wait here it is, from info wars life, Happys?
I believe that's the one.
Alright well, let me give this a try.
Put that on your tongue, swallow it down.
Okay, let me just, because you know, I just, I was called a lot of rude names by CNN in
the break and it's just got me feeling a little down so maybe this Happys here that
the crew is telling, let me just, let's see how this works, tastes kind of like honey.
Maybe just one more for good keeping.
One more for good measure you think?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
For ultimate, for ultimate Happys?
Alright.
Hmm, I'm feeling better, you know what, I'm not a racist, I'm not a bigot, you want me
to drink this whole bottle of Happys?
Just do it.
The crew wants me to drink this whole bottle of Happys right now, alright here we go, psych.
Alright folks, obviously having some fun here on air.
But the truth is the products that we have at InfowarsStore.com do work.
They do have a positive effect and if you give them a try, you will find that out.
And personally, I'm someone that's just so, I mean you could say high off life all day
anyway that something like Happys is not necessarily something that I plan on using or use.
So for me, it's easier for me to kind of market products that I use every day like Survival
Shield X2 or a BrainForce or something like that.
So I just wanted to find a fun way to market Happys, which is a new product at InfowarsStore.com.
But here's the good news, the entire Infowars line of products, the entire Infowars Lifeline
of products right now at InfowarsStore.com is 50% off.
You heard me correctly, the entire line of Infowars Life products is 50% off.
So if you're somebody that maybe needs a little pick up to your emotional or your mood every
day, Happys could be for you.
Give it a try.
It's 50% off right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Now's the time to give it a test, Alpha Power 50% off, Super Male Vitality 50% off, Survival
Shield X2 50% off, Bodies 50% off.
The entire line of Infowars Life products, all the great supplements are 50% off right
now at InfowarsStore.com.
But that wasn't enough for Alex.
He said, well, 50% off is only going halfway there.
Let's go all the way and let's go free shipping store wide.
So 50% off all Infowars Life products and then free shipping store wide.
So if you're not someone like me that takes like 15 pills a day, probably 12 of them are
from InfowarsLife.com, InfowarsStore.com, depends on the day.
And if you're somebody that doesn't do the supplements, there's ball caps, there's t-shirts,
there's books, there's DVDs, there's all kinds of other stuff, flags, you can go get a flag.
So it's InfowarsStore.com.
You will find something.
And if you've been on the fence about trying a product, now is the time to give it a go
with the entire line of Infowars Life products, 50% off.
This is the Infowars Super Sale and free shipping store wide.
The savings are incredible right now, ladies and gentlemen.
And with free shipping too, I think that now is the time to look at emergency food if you
don't have it because you save a ton of money on shipping with that, so check out the Infowars
Life line of select storeable foods, check out the air filter, check out the water filter.
These are heavier items that cost more to ship, but there's free shipping right now.
So take advantage of that.
And you'd hate to think that you need survival food, but we see what happens with hurricanes,
power outages, storms.
And then, I mean, who knows what the left is gonna do when the red wave happens, folks,
you know?
I mean, they'd love to shut down commerce in this country.
And then if they get power, they'll make us a socialist country, and then eventually they'll,
you know, the means of getting food and water will just be shut down.
That's what happens in a socialist country, you see?
So go to InfowarsStore.com.
Take advantage of 50% off, 50% off the entire line of Infowars Life products and free shipping
store wide.
It is incredible.
Okay.
You know, we should be making a bigger deal out of this.
And so guys, let's actually clip off this segment starting right now and go to this report.
Just like you had a man who tried to do an act of tear, radical leftist tear on the 4th
of July in Cleveland.
That's right.
Let's not forget.
The leftist tried to detonate a bomb on the 4th of July in Cleveland.
He got arrested by the FBI.
Now you have an individual arrested, and he was caught with a 200-pound bomb.
He planned on blowing up in New York to try to stop the election process.
Here's a report from CBS New York, 12.
We're going to have the clip.
Out of breaking news in Rockland County.
A man under arrest accused of planning to make a bomb.
CBS News Dick Brennan in our newsroom with the latest on this story.
Dick?
Well, Christina Murray's 56-year-old Paul Rosenfeld was charged in connection with making
an explosive device in his Japan home.
He appeared in White Plains Federal Court this afternoon.
Rosenfeld is accused of planning to blow up the device on the National Mall in Washington
on election day, FBI Assistant Director in Charge William Sweeney Jr. says Rosenfeld allegedly
made this plan to draw attention to his radical political beliefs.
Today, law enforcement has created his home.
Investigators were seen packing up what appeared to be boxes of evidence from the scene.
The 200-pound device Rosenfeld built was found in the basement of his home.
Law enforcement agents also found a system for triggering such a device as well as empty
canisters of black powder.
In the newsroom, Dick Brennan, CBS News.
And so he was also making other bombs.
He detonated other bombs.
He was planning a mass casualty event, suicide event with his 200-pound bomb on the D.C.
Mall as it was reported there.
So, I mean, again, folks, this is radical leftist shooting up Republicans at a baseball practice,
radical leftist assaulting Trump supporters in the streets, radical leftist just going
crazy with acts of mob violence when a conservative speaker shows up in town or Trump gets inaugurated.
Radical leftists plan a terrorist attack on the 4th of July in Cleveland.
Radical leftists plan a terrorist attack on election day in D.C.
Again, again, I say this.
We are lucky that the radical left has not already killed one or hundreds or thousands
of people in this country because they've already tried multiple times.
They've already tried multiple times.
And eventually it's going to get there.
One of these radical leftists is going to detonate their bomb.
One of these radical leftists is going to actually kill people when they go on a mass
shooting.
One of these radical leftists is going to accidentally kill someone when they hit him
with a bike lock or something.
What happens then?
It's not an if.
This is a when.
You know why?
Because we're not doing anything about it.
We're not institutionalizing these mentally deranged people.
The Department of Justice is nowhere to be found.
Where's Jeff Sessions?
I don't know.
Bueller?
Sessions?
Bueller?
So, it's not a matter of if.
It's a matter of when.
When is a radical leftist going to start killing people?
They've already tried.
Thank God they haven't been able to do it.
But it's not a matter of if.
It's a matter of when.
When does a radical leftist pop off and actually get away with murder and a mass terror event?
That's what's coming, folks.
This is not a matter of if.
This is a matter of when.
And the Democrats have all ready said they're behind it, they want it, and they will back
it up and that it's justified.
So the Democrats are a domestic terror organization.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn
American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road, Diamond Gusset
Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com, that's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the
one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes, and drops, poor circulation, and irregular heartbeat
are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized.
Diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look, and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventive
to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305, that's 866-295-5305, or order
online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract, 866-295-5305, or hbextract.com.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists, get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling
bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Sling bow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill, only at slingbow.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids
get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development, this formula uses wild
anchovy fish oil, ultra purified krill oil, and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to
boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive,
and brain health while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's
brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly
refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or
to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright
lights every day.
But thanks to SuperMailVitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against
the chemicals in the food and water, to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with
the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy,
and drive to get to the gym, get to the park, and get exercise that you need for your health.
To go to InfowarsStore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone, this is actually our last
run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality at InfowarsStore.com.
All right, tons of powerful viral clips are coming out of Kanye West's meeting with President
Trump in the Oval Office.
Kid Rock was also meeting with President Trump today as well as others.
Jim Brown was there.
I can't remember all the list of people that were there, but tons of people meeting with
President Trump today, trying to get things done.
The story is on Infowars.com.
Kanye talks guns, race, humanity, and the universe with Trump.
Very powerful stuff.
And just imagine how he's going to be attacked by the left for this.
Oh, I love it.
Let the hate fill you.
That's the left right now.
It's like they have this voice in their head of Emperor Palpatine.
Let the hate fill your soul.
Hate everything.
Hate America.
Hate Trump.
Hate Kanye.
And they just love it.
They just love it, because really, sadly, they hate themselves.
But I'll try not to go into another psychology lecture here.
I do want to say the clips, though, I think that Harrison Smith is probably going to get
to some of those clips on the War Room today.
He's hosting the War Room for me today, which is Infowars Live programming from 3 to 6 p.m.
Central.
I usually host Harrison hosting for me today.
And then I'll be back in studio tonight at 8 p.m. Central to 10 p.m. Central, where we
are doing our extended live coverage leading up to the midterm elections.
And while this is extended live coverage leading up to the elections, it's also us testing
the waters to see if we're ready to launch new live programming, which really is going
to be about how much funding we get from the super sale we have right now at infowarstore.com.
And then, are you going to share the streams?
Are you going to tell your friends and family?
Are you going to tune in?
Are you going to share them?
Are you going to put them out on social media?
So this is kind of us testing the waters to see if we're ready to go to the next level
of live broadcasting.
And it's honestly, as everything around here, it's all determined by your support at infowarstore.com
and infowarstore.com and you spreading those links.
So having said that, let's get to a news blitz.
Let's just go right into this violence again because, I mean, it's redundant, but it needs
to sink in because of how real this issue is, this is the story we covered last segment.
Man plan to blow self up with 200 pound bomb in DC on election day.
Paul Joseph Watson has a story at infowarstore.com.
Domestic terrorist was angry about the country's direction.
Yeah, they hate America.
They don't like America being successful again and because they choose not to be a part of
it, they're left out and left feeling left out and then acting enraged and hate filled
about it.
That's the saddest thing.
These people are leaving themselves out from making America great again.
They could be part of it.
They choose not to be.
You left yourself out.
It's like that bitter child that throws some temper tantrum and then decides not to go
to the group on the field trip or to the group to the ball game or the amusement part because
they had some little tiff that they got upset about.
And then they're just mad and they hold it against everyone else even though it was their
own fault.
How about Eric Holder?
Boy, this guy's a class act, isn't he?
Says when they go low, we kick them and says that this is what the new Democrat Party is
all about.
No, he's right.
He is right.
The Democrat Party is all about domestic terror now and Eric Holder is just letting you know.
Steve Watson has the story at infowarstore.com and Trump responded saying it's a disgrace.
Even, I mean, even Michelle Obama, I mean, my gosh, you got to give people credit where
credit is due.
Even Michelle Obama is rejecting Holder's message saying it's not good for the youth.
So that's interesting.
Maybe Michelle Obama, though, isn't in the criminal enterprise like Eric Holder is.
Maybe she was able to keep her hands clean of all the dirtiness going on in the Obama
administration so she doesn't have to be an outright liar.
But Eric Holder says when they go low, just kick them and that's what the Democrat Party
is all about.
That's right.
Eric Holder is 110% right.
The Democrat Party is all about domestic terror, 110%.
The Democrat Party, I mean, this is a serious question.
What is a bigger threat to America, our homeland, right now, radical Islamic terror or Democrat
domestic terror?
That is a fair question.
That is a real question.
And I think it's probably Democrat domestic terror.
Now, obviously, there's a lot of secret intel about the radical Islamic terror cells that
exist in this country that are just waiting to be activated, like the one that got caught
in New Mexico that nobody reported on, where they killed a kid and they were training kids
to shoot up schools.
Yeah.
So, I mean, but these people are foaming at the mouth and their leaders are telling
them to go out and commit acts of violence.
So I mean, seriously, this is a serious question.
What is a greater threat to our homeland, radical Islamic terror or Democrat domestic
terror?
I think right now, it's probably Democrat domestic terror.
But leave it to the left wing media in this country to say that they're not an angry mob.
Now we played that clip over and over, so I'm not going to play it again, but that's
what they're doing.
Meanwhile, U.S. charges Chinese spy with stealing military secrets.
So Diane Feinstein is finally getting charged.
Oh, no, I'm sorry, Hillary Clinton is finally getting charged.
Oh, no.
Okay.
I was just checking.
It was a Chinese spy.
But again, now notice when the spies and the American operatives in China got caught,
what did China do?
They tortured and killed them.
That's thanks to Hillary Clinton, maybe Diane Feinstein.
I mean, who knows?
We don't get an investigation to Hillary Clinton's Chinese server.
We don't get an investigation to Diane Feinstein's Chinese spy.
But when China gets our operatives, they jail them, torture them or kill them, when we get
a Chinese operative, we just send them out.
When Apple IDs in China lead to mobile payment pilfering, well, let's see, China, the Chinese
Communist government has all of your data now.
They have all of your data via Apple.
So anyone acting in China that wants to get ahold of your data and steal it, they don't
even have to be able to operate domestically, folks.
So just understand that your data is now available for pilfering in China, in China.
Now since China owns all your data now, they can also sell it and will sell it to any third
party they choose, because you know why?
When you clicked accept the terms and conditions for all the crap you ever downloaded on your
iPhone or all the crap you ever downloaded on your Apple, now that became Apple's data.
They own you.
And they can now sell your data and they have.
And then they've moved their operations to China so that they don't get taxed and they
don't have regulations stopping them from having slave-like labor forces making their
products.
And so that's what goes on.
And it's incredible that we have people crying and moaning and complaining and protesting,
and all human rights violations in America, they're putting the kids in cages.
Why don't you go to China for a day?
Why don't you go to China for a day where, by the way, probably everything you're wearing
was made, all the products in your home were made, and where Hillary Clinton and Diane Feinstein
sent classified information.
Yep.
Yes.
Thank you.
Ever wonder how Bitcoin and Ethereum were created?
Verselmedia has helped hundreds of companies and individuals make their own cryptocurrency.
Decentralized blockchain solutions are making the world more transparent and giving power
back to the people.
Verselmedia has helped companies raise tens of millions in the past year alone, structuring
and marketing ICOs to the thirsty crypto public worldwide.
Don't miss the cryptocurrency revolution.
Visit verselmedia.com, V-E-R-C-E-L, media.com.
The Real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for
newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products,
the Real Red Pill Plus.
The Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, and healthy aging process
with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the Real Red Pill, is going to become one of our fellow
InfoWare's favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Regie extract, your Ramate
leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up, all supporting your mind and body
in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the boost in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstores.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash, designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and
they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better
ingredients, Ultimate Bone Broth, infowarslife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth
formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, Ultimate Bone Broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients, such as
turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder
to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate Bone Broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You've found it, the tip of the spear, it is the Alex Jones Show with Owen Troyer.
We're rolling b-roll right now.
I think that, you know what, I'm not sure where that was actually.
I was gonna say, I'm not even gonna say it because actually I'm not sure, but basically
some radical leftist starts charging at a police officer.
You can tell he's enraged and he hops out of his, a police officer just walking across
the street, I guess he's just on foot patrol or something and he's getting a bite to eat
or something, and this crazy guy hops up out of his chair on some patio and starts storming
towards a police officer, and he doesn't take it for one second, he just drops him
like a rock.
Oh, it's so beautiful, just look, here comes the crazed leftist, hey you police officer,
you're bad, you're raised, and boom, sit down son, you're under arrest.
Look, I'm totally against police brutality, I'm totally against a police state, in fact
I'm against the drug war entirely, but police have a target on their chest, and if somebody's
gonna charge at anybody like that, you absolutely should be able to body slam them to the ground,
whether it's a police officer or not.
But the reason why I highlight this police officer is because they don't want the police
to be able to do this, they don't want the police to be able to defend themselves.
So if more of this happened though, I think you'd have less people trying to attack the
police, like when I go to these leftist events and you have these scumbags screaming at police,
waiting on them, insulting them, the police just sit there and take it, you know, maybe
if one of them decided to take that riot shield and just give them a little knock them back
ten years like that body slam did, you think that guy's ever gonna think about charging
a police officer again or anybody?
I doubt it, I doubt it.
So I just want to say, let the police do their job, and if citizens in this country are gonna
get deranged and out of control, they need to be brought down, for this country's good
and for their own good.
Now let's get into some more news here, Pelosi's San Francisco named Poop Capital of America
on pace for record number of complaints, oh my gosh, this is a real quote.
The number of unique poop complaints every year from 2011 to 2018 almost tripled from
5,600 complaints in 2011 to almost 21,000 complaints in 2017, my god.
That's real, poop complaints, oh my, ugh.
Now let's go to a clip of Diamond and Silk who are about to be in a new movie where they
do a funny sketch mimicking the poop complaint guys, go ahead and roll clip 14.
Well, why are you pressure washing the sidewalks?
Because it's dirty.
What's all the sidewalks that we need to be concerned about?
I mean it's just feces and feces.
Yeah.
What type of feces is it?
Animal feces?
Both.
Both.
Both.
Human feces and animals.
Did you say human feces?
Yeah.
Like boo boo.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Folks, you can ask anybody that lives in San Francisco or you can go to San Francisco.
You know, you step outside, let's say you want to smoke a cigarette after you eat your
dinner, you step outside, doesn't smoke your cigarette, right across the street, some bomb
drops their drawers, takes a dump and then walks up the street and then you're basically
left to clean it up.
Look at that poop bat.
The entire city of San Francisco is basically a toilet.
Thanks Democrats.
Now just south of there, Fleaborn Typhus outbreak spreads to Long Beach.
Whoa.
Well, they had it in LA and now it's spread to Long Beach.
Look, this is like a serious health concern.
I mean, I can laugh about how out of control Democrat run cities are with the poop on the
ground and the needles and everything and the homelessness and the poverty and everything.
But this is serious, I mean, folks, if they don't get this under control in California,
they will have a biological hazard in just a few short years.
That is not a joke.
Fleaborn Typhus outbreak, I mean, folks, this is ridiculous.
Tuberculosis is on the rise.
I mean, all of this crap.
And it's because they have wide open borders, it's because they have needle programs, rampant
drug use, no law and order, it's out of control.
And you literally, like you can't even live in San Francisco or LA.
Do you really think you can walk around and take a dump on the streets of San Francisco
without it having serious biological repercussions?
Just think about this, folks, we don't even know, honestly, people don't even know the
serious health concern that's going on right now.
Where do you think all of this human fecal runoff ends up?
It's all going to be pooled in some sick, disgusting, good God.
Lord help California.
It's such a beautiful state and the Democrats have literally taken a dump on it.
Hollywood rewrites its script to resist Trump in midterms.
Well, they've been resisting Trump from the very beginning, but this is crazy.
So they have some PAC, the OMGWTF PAC.
And so Michael Avenatti, who I guess, I mean, this guy, I guess really thinks he's going
to run against Trump.
I mean, I invite you to, that's going to be, you'll lose, that could be a 50-0 in the electoral.
I think he could win California, but he won't win another state.
But he's now basically campaigning for this OMGWTF political action committee that supports
Democrats.
I mean, what, and then they try to tell you that there's going to be some blue wave.
Michael Avenatti thinks he's running for president.
Eric Holder just had an event.
Obama just had an event combined.
They didn't even have a thousand people between Obama, Holder and Avenatti this week.
They didn't even have a thousand people show up to their public speaking events.
Donald Trump has had a hundred thousand people turn up to his last four speaking events.
Let's just say three.
Let's just say three.
They get three events.
They get Avenatti at OMGWTF, five people show up, maybe 10.
They get Obama at a school in California, almost a thousand people show up.
They get Holder in, what was it, like a fifth grade classroom or something, 20 people show
up.
So they get a thousand people for three major Democrats, Avenatti, Obama and Holder.
They get a thousand people overall.
Trump, in his last three events, has had over 50,000 people show up.
And you think there's going to be a blue wave.
You really see a blue wave, do you?
I think you're sniffing the streets of San Francisco, if you know what I'm saying.
American Music Awards ratings plummet to record low as entertainers push politics.
Really the overall story is just people are done with Hollywood and their culture and
all the nonsense they push.
But it's funny because Taylor Swift hosted this, and so people are saying, oh, it was
Taylor Swift's politics and her comments that crushed the ratings.
The ratings were already going to be down anyway.
Taylor Swift didn't help, but isn't it convenient?
And I'm not going to call out some other artists here that did this too, but I'm telling you
this is a pattern.
Once these artists finish their North American leg of their tours, as soon as they play their
last North American show, they all have come out and made a negative Trump comment or negative
conservative comment.
And it's usually pretty guarded.
It's usually not very extreme, and you can tell it's probably tongue-in-cheek, and maybe
don't even mean it.
But they figured, oh, I'm going to say this as I'm leaving North America, and I'll get
some pub, I'll get some headline, and maybe I'll drum up some energy before I leave America.
But so just understand that the ratings for the AMAs would have tanked anyway, whether
Taylor Swift made those comments or not.
But she only made those comments to, she thought, get some sort of windfall to her tour as she
leaves America and as she was about to host the AMAs.
So it's all fake with these people, sadly.
American flag backlash could hurt first man at the box office.
No, it's the anti-American sentiment coming from the Hollywood culture that's going to
hurt the box office.
It doesn't matter.
It's the same thing with Taylor Swift.
The AMA ratings were already going to be down because people are sick of the entertainment
industry telling us how to think and feel and lying to us.
Sick of the propaganda.
Just like Hollywood.
No one was going to go see first man, whether they put the American flag on the moon or
not.
More people will probably go because of the publicity that they even heard of it now.
Nobody's going to movies.
Nobody's watching Hollywood anymore.
Nobody cares.
We're sick of your propaganda.
We're sick of your arrogance.
We're done with you.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or
to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know.
I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day.
To fight back against the chemicals and the food and water.
To fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours.
To still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive.
To get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you, SupermailVitality from InfowarsStore.com.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and
why we've been made the main target and if you financially support us and if you spread
the word about our articles and videos, Infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against
these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at InfowarsStore.com right now and we're still able to operate the shopping
cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrel's the global Spain win.
This is Infowars Darker Sour, we're your support, I'm counting on you.
X2, we were selling it for about three years and then they found out how big it was and
I was like, we're buying and they said, oh, we want more money, more money and oh, this
and that.
And so I've broken my contract and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient
that goes in X2 that literally is so pure that if you put it in a peaker dish on top
of 90 degree hot plate, it gasses like I dream of genie and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it,
ordered it six months ago, so I get the price down and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm
done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week and so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run, survival shield X2 and we've got a good supply of it,
but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, M4store.com, if you have experienced it, you know how great
it is, I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for limited time, M4store.com right now.
Stress is a natural part of life.
Work, family, friends and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your
mood.
Don't let life weigh you down.
Happys is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's
daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years, Happys can help you take back the
day.
With our powerhouse formula, Happys can be an important part of your daily supplement
routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than
ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, Happys helps support
during stress, promotes overall well-being and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happys from
InfowarsStore.com.
Well, it's incredible because Project Veritas has caught the Democrats admitting on tape
that they staged domestic terror bragging about it.
We've caught Project Veritas, caught Google, YouTube, all of them admitting they censor,
admitting they hate conservatives, they caught the IRS admitting they target conservatives,
they caught other federal bureaucracies admitting they target conservatives and have politicized
themselves.
This is all caught on tape.
This isn't rhetoric.
The Democrats are now engaged in inciting domestic terror.
That's just true.
Oh, this is true.
This is our America today.
And then Kanye West goes to the White House to visit President Trump.
They have a great meeting.
They hug.
They shake it out.
They have great talks.
And the leftist media freaks out why because the black man is off their plantation.
Even that tell you everything you need to know about the left.
They look at black people as their property, just like they did during the slavery era.
That's why Democrats fought for slavery.
They said, you can't take my property.
That black man is my property.
So the Democrats fought for slavery.
Thank God, America won, the Union won, the conservatives won, Republicans won.
But still to this day, the left looks at black people as their property.
And so they say, Kanye West, you're a black man, you're our property.
You vote how we tell you to.
You think how we tell you to.
And if you don't, well, you're an illiterate Negro.
That's Bakari Sellers words on CNN, not mine.
Or should we quote Tara Stetmayer, Kanye West is a token black Negro.
Again, not my words, CNNs.
But doesn't that tell you everything you need to know about the left?
They think black people are their property.
They think gay people are their property.
In fact, they honestly have the weird thing.
They think everything is their property.
They think America is their property.
So they literally want to piss and crap on it.
But as depressing and real as that is, and the Democrats trying to stage domestic terror,
as real as all that is, truth is, America really is coming back.
I mean, most Americans are joining the Make America Great Again movement, and we are having
victories.
Now, we're still strides away from where I think we need to be, but we're getting there.
I mean, we're actually going in the right direction now.
America's coming together.
All the racial division and all that crap is all lies.
It's all mainstream media stuff.
It's all leftist garbage.
The real American people, actual Americans are having great success right now, having
great victories and coming together, and the left wants to destroy all of it because they're
so sad and miserable in their own pathetic existence.
Not trying to be rude.
I just call it like it is, ladies and gentlemen.
And this story just came out from Paul Joseph Watson at InfowarsStore.com.
New study shows vast majority of non-white Americans reject political correctness.
Now, that's fine.
That's a study, but the real story is the vast majority of all Americans resist political
correctness.
Correctness.
We're all sick of this.
So that's why Trump won.
It's just crazy, man.
It's just crazy.
The radical left, honestly, is maybe 10% of this country, maybe 15, 20 at the most.
But because they're so loud, because they're so violent, because they're so hateful, they
seem like they're a bigger group of people, very small group of people.
They'll be left in the dust.
They'll be left in the trash heap of history.
They'll be left in the ash bin.
That's their choice.
That's their choice.
But folks, I mean, I don't know what happens.
They don't want to be a part of this.
They just want to hate, hate, hate, hate, hate.
They have no open mind.
They have no tolerance.
They're calling for domestic terror.
They want it.
I don't want it.
I don't want to see a civil war.
I mean, I think we know how that's going to go.
And the sad thing is, these radical leftists that have been so enraged and incited by the
media and the Democrats, they think they're in the majority.
That's a big false consensus that the media propaganda gives them, that they're in the
majority so they're justified and in the right.
You're going to learn real quick.
You're going to learn real quick how you're not even close to a majority.
You're going to learn real quick how you were never in the right if you keep pushing this.
Let's hit some more news here before we get into the fourth hour with Mike Adams.
Manhattan DA drops part of Weinstein case.
Now it's funny with all the outrage over Kavanaugh with, again, no evidence.
You've got all kinds of evidence against Weinstein.
They just dropped part of that case.
No outrage from the left, not standing up for the victims of Harvey Weinstein.
And by the way, I saw this come in a while ago.
Rose McGowan, who I've reported negatively on, but I did say this a while ago, and it
appears maybe the case.
She might actually be the only real person from Hollywood in the Me Too movement, because
she's basically calling it a fraud now because she got into it for real reasons, witnessed
real abuse, was probably a victim of real abuse, knows what was going on, may have incorrectly
appointed it at all men.
But now she has seen how it's nothing but a political movement.
And now she's even like, yeah, the Me Too movement's all fake.
And I remember seeing it when she originally came out about this stuff because she was
actually saying real stuff and calling out the double standards and then got totally
ignored and then got pushed aside.
And so now she's coming out like, yeah, it's basically a sham.
So they don't cover Rose McGowan anymore.
She used to be one of the big leaders of the Me Too movement.
Now that she realized it's all politicized and it's all double standards and the Democrats
are just using it for a political reason, she's like, okay, you're going to push me
out of it now?
Yeah, there's the story.
Actress Rose McGowan who triggered Harvey Weinstein downfall now claims the Me Too movement
is all bull crap.
I'm censoring myself and a lie to make lily-livered Hollywood types feel better.
Bingo.
See, and it's like the same thing with Candice Owens, like whenever you get involved in
a political movement for a real reason and then the left gets control of it and then
the left tries to control you and then if you disagree with the left, they push you
out or they try to set you up and then they use you as a tool, that's when Candice Owens
became a conservative.
And I'm not saying Rose McGowan's going to be a conservative, but she saw the Me Too
movement for what it was.
She was actually in it for the right reasons so that, you know what they had to do to her?
Bye, Rose.
You're out.
Sorry, you're in it for the right reasons.
We're in it for political reasons.
Get out, Rose.
So now she calls it out.
Elon Musk denies James Murdoch is a favorite to become Tesla chairman.
I remember seeing this in real time, I think it was RT, I don't remember, but somebody
published the story.
James Murdoch is set to become the Tesla chairman and within a minute, Elon Musk replied on Twitter
saying this is fake news.
So that's fun.
In the age of Trump, Tucker Carlson's ship has come in at Fox News, according to the
Los Angeles Times, Tucker Carlson's new book topples Woodward from number one on New York
Times bestseller list.
The real headline is here, Tucker is coming of age and becoming so popular at the ripe
age of 49 because he's real, because he tells it like it is.
That's what people want because he's not politically correct.
And look, I didn't even know, I saw Tucker Carlson's new book on the Tucker Carlson
show.
I didn't see it promoted anywhere else.
I think he was a guest on maybe the five or maybe outnumbered or something to promote
his book, but Woodward's book's everywhere.
Woodward's book gets publicized and promoted on every news outlet.
Everyone knows about Woodward's book, but guess who outsold Woodward, Tucker Carlson.
That's because Tucker is real and that's because the blue wave is not.
All right, quick headlines here.
You know what, I won't even get into this stuff.
But if you're into the paranormal folks, if you're into the paranormal, it's out there.
And I never cover the paranormal stuff because I like giving the audience something they
can sink their teeth into.
And usually it's tougher with aliens and paranormal folks, not anymore.
It's like, there's so much to sink your teeth into now with the paranormal and alien stuff,
but we won't get involved with that.
Mike Adams is going to take over here in the fourth hour.
He's got a lot of stuff coming up when it comes to the Democrats trying to incite a civil
war.
But folks, before I sign off, please remember infowarstore.com and please remember infowars.com
slash show.
That's the key.
Infowars.com slash show.
People don't know where to find us.
They really don't know.
They think since we got erased off social media, we don't even exist anymore.
That just shows you the power and the mind control that social media now has on this country.
That somehow that's the reality when no, it's not.
No, we still exist.
So infowars.com slash show is where you can always find our live program, but folks, please
remember infowars.com 50% off 50% off the entire line of infowars life supplements, 50% off
the entire line of infowars life supplements, super blue fluoride free toothpaste, 50% off.
Go order 10 tubes of super blue fluoride free toothpaste.
You'll be set for years and you just saved a bunch of money.
A little bit on the fence about trying vitamin mineral fusion that I drink every morning.
Go get it for 50% off vitamin mineral fusion.
I drink it every morning.
It's part of my morning routine.
And then I take a bunch of supplements from infowars.com like the real red pill.
So it's all at infowars.com 50% off the entire infowars life product line.
And then the entire infowars.com store infowars.com free shipping, including heavy items, emergency
food, water filters.
It's all at infowars.com folks.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage and that's why we need you to go to the site
now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider
a contribution 25, 50, 100, 250 or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they
want to strangle our first amendment rights.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients and stress, you may not be able to get all
the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins and minerals needed daily.
That's why infowars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula, the new platinum
standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery
system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with
34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin
mineral fusion today, available at infowarsstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right, Mike Adams here stepping in for the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show today.
Thank you for joining me.
And big thanks to Owen Shroyer there for an excellent job on the show.
We've got a lot coming up here for the fourth hour.
First I want to talk about Kanye and his appearance at the White House because he's
just done an extraordinary thing for America and for racial unity in America.
So I'm going to cover that here in a minute.
I'm also going to cover the stock market and what's going on with the Fed raising interest
rates in an attempt to try to crash the market under Trump even as the Fed kept rates artificially
low for virtually all eight years under Obama.
I'm also going to then cover later in the hour the Hillary Clinton commitment to violence
and why Democrats have now essentially become the radical left-wing domestic terrorism party
of America.
And if you vote for Democrats, you're voting for the destruction of your own nation.
I'm going to talk about all those topics and much more.
Also remind you this Sunday, my show with infowars.
It's called Counterthink.
It airs Sunday at 6 p.m. central time at infowars.com.
And there I have a very detailed breakdown of the coming Civil War, how it may play out,
and some steps you should take to prepare yourself against the breakdown of society that the
Democrats are now promising.
So be sure to catch that show again.
It's Sunday, 6 p.m. central time at infowars.com.
The show is called Counterthink.
Now, getting back to Kanye, and I think he goes by yay now, but I know his name is Kanye.
I don't know him personally, but I'm just going to call him Kanye.
I think you did an extraordinary thing today by going to the White House and speaking with
President Trump on very important topics and just being very transparent and open about
how he feels as a black American, as a man who did not have a strong father figure in
his family because his parents were divorced, and how strongly he feels about helping his
fellow brothers and sisters, fellow human beings.
Kanye wants to uplift the African American communities all across America.
In fact, Kanye wants what's best for all America as far as, I mean, that's obvious,
just like President Trump does.
And this is what they have in common.
President Trump wants to help black Americans just as much as he wants to help white Americans.
In fact, President Trump doesn't see people as black or white or Latino or Chinese American
or anything.
They're just all Americans, and everybody deserves to do well, and everybody deserves
to be uplifted.
And when Kanye went to the Oval Office there and sat with Trump, liberal heads were exploding
all across the country.
This was an extraordinary thing, and it reminded me of the 2008 election.
This election cycle, the campaign of 2007 involving Barack Obama.
Many, many white people across America, in fact, tens of millions of them, voted for
Barack Obama because they wanted to vote for racial unity.
They wanted to make America a country where the president was African American, and they
did.
They successfully did that because they wanted to vote for racial unity.
They wanted a national healing to take place across America.
But Obama failed to use his power to create racial unity.
In fact, Obama weaponized government.
He weaponized every branch of government and the bully pulpit there to drive a wedge between
black and white Americans.
He pushed racial disunity, and he has promoted racial, well, not just disharmony, but even
hatred.
He made things worse, but Kanye is bringing the races together.
Kanye, believe it or not, just did in the White House today what Barack Obama couldn't
do in the White House for eight years.
Literally, Kanye just accomplished what Obama could not accomplish in eight years.
And so for that, I applaud what Kanye just did.
I applaud his spirit.
I applaud his courage.
I know he's being viciously attacked.
CNN, if you can believe it, called him a negro, essentially implying that he can't read books.
That's CNN.
Are you kidding me?
The racists are at CNN now, and it's Trump supporters that are calling for racial unity
and racial healing.
So thank you, Kanye, for that action today.
We'll be right back with much more straight ahead on the Alex Jones show.
This is Mike Adams filling in.
Stay with us.
We'll be right back with more straight ahead on the Alex Jones show, and we'll be right
back with more straight ahead on the Alex Jones show.
We'll be right back with more straight ahead on the Alex Jones show.
We'll be right back with more straight ahead on the Alex Jones show.
This is Mike Adams filling in for Alex Jones today on the Alex Jones show.
Thanks for continuing with me.
We've got many, many important topics today, but in the last segment, I spoke about Kanye
and the courage that he has as a conscious, aware, and obviously very intelligent individual.
He's really advanced in his thinking, and just with him having the courage to go to the
White House and speak with President Trump and invite the press and talk about what America
really needs to heal.
I think that Kanye has just put Republicans over the victory line for the midterm elections
to hold the House.
Now, of course, Democrats are out there saying that if they lose the House, they are going
to commit mass violence across America.
I'm going to talk about that in more detail here.
They're basically putting a gun to the head of every voter in America and saying, if you
don't vote Democrat, then we're going to commit violence and turn into a terrorist party and
destroy your country.
That's sort of like, what is that, America held hostage?
The hostage situation, like to put a gun to your head and saying, go vote for us or else.
That's exactly why we must vote against the Democrats.
If they do not honor their social contract, which honors democracy is supposed to be about
our constitutional republic technically, but the democratic process is about changing power
peacefully without military coups, without revolutions, without violence in the streets.
It's a social contract that people take on both sides of the aisle in every country where
a democratic process takes place.
The social contract says that you participate in democracy, you vote, and even if you lose,
you respect the outcome of the election.
That's the social contract, that's the good faith that parties must agree to, or participants
and citizens agree to, to participate in democracy.
The radical violent left has now essentially rejected that social contract, and they have
pre-announced that they will violate it.
They've pre-announced that they will commit mass violence if they don't get their way.
They have pre-announced that they will not honor the outcome of any election that they
don't win.
And you notice how this is the same party that went insane in 2016, when Trump was asked
during one of the debates, will you accept the outcome of the election if you lose?
And Trump said something like, well, we'll have to see what the circumstances are at
the time.
Hillary Clinton at that time went nuts, and so did CNN, and so did the entire left-wing
media saying, oh my God, he's not, he's not pre-announcing that he's going to accept the
outcome of the election.
He's an American, he's a threat to our democracy.
Now, they're doing exactly what they condemned Trump for theoretically doing, which he never
even did.
They're saying that the Democrats are saying they will not honor the outcome of this election.
And furthermore, they attack the integrity of everything that they no longer control.
You notice that when the Democrats don't control the White House, they attack the presidency.
When the Democrats now have lost their majority in the Supreme Court, they attack the Supreme
Court, and they say, well, the Supreme Court has lost integrity, must not be legitimate
anymore.
They always say everything is illegitimate if it's run by the GOP.
When they lose the Senate, they say, well, the Senate's illegitimate.
Too many Republicans, right?
And they lose the House.
They say, well, the House is illegitimate.
This is the way the Democrats operate, and it has become clear to all of us at this point.
Democrats are incompatible with civil society.
And I want to say that again forcefully, and I hope you really share this very important
message.
Democrats repeatedly demonstrate that they are incompatible with civil society.
They do not honor the social contract of Democratic elections.
They do not honor outcomes of elections that they don't win.
And now, to top it off, they are threatening violence against all of America if they don't
get their power back.
And that is exactly why we cannot allow them to get their power back.
This is why we must vote against Democrats.
This year, you must vote a straight Republican ticket.
I'm talking about the federal elections.
At a local level, that may vary based on your local situation.
There might be libertarian or independent candidates who are better.
I'm not sure.
But for every position of Congress, you know, Senate or the House, you must vote a straight
Republican ticket this time only, well, perhaps this time from here forward, because Democrats
have become the party of terrorism.
And they will, when they lose the House in this upcoming election, and currently I put
the odds of them losing, you know, I should say not regaining control of the House, the
odds of the GOP maintaining control are now better than 50 percent, better than 50 percent.
Not 100 percent, not even 80 percent, but much better than 50 percent.
And if the Democrats don't take back the House, if they remain in the minority, they are going
to become so radicalized and so violent.
The footage that you saw from Portland, Oregon the other day with this radical left-wing
group directing traffic by harassing people, harassing senior citizen drivers in their
cars, bashing the windows of the cars, physically attacking, assaulting, yelling racial slurs
at people in their cars, while the police stood down, the Portland police stood down
and did nothing.
That scene is a tiny taste of things yet to come if the Democrats don't get their way
at the ballot box.
They will unleash this kind of radical, not just civil unrest, but really radical terrorism
violence all across America, they will do this in every city where they can get away
with it.
And by the way, it's going to become very important in my view, for President Trump
to fire sessions immediately after the election, bring in a new head of the DOJ that then orders
police departments nationwide to stop standing down and start engaging the violent left-wing
terrorists in order to stop them from overrunning cities and harassing innocent citizens.
Remember under Obama how the police were always told to stand down?
Even in cities like Baltimore, I think it was the mayor of Baltimore at one point that
said, well, the cops should retreat, the cops should stand down, let the rioters just burn
the buildings, commit arson, loot everything, and even attack police with deadly force.
This is what Obama had in place and this is what Democrats have in place.
I say no more.
The police must be allowed to stand their ground because we support the men and women
in blue who are trying to regain civility and keep some basic peace in our cities all
across America.
And when they are attacked, they need to be able to stand their ground, they need to have
rules of engagement that allow them to protect themselves.
And if necessary, if they are attacked with deadly force, they must be able to respond
with deadly force in order to stop themselves and their fellow police men and women from
being killed.
If you've got attackers coming at you, a mob of left-wing lunatics who are talking
about terrorism and talking about killing people and they're carrying weapons like Molotov
cocktails that have an area effect that can kill and set on fire multiple police officers.
If they're coming at you with that Molotov cocktail, the police need to be able to apply
their training and their tools and their glocks, frankly, in their defense under those circumstances
where they are attacked with deadly force.
Of course, they must exercise restraint.
If the protesters are peaceful, you meet them with peace.
If the protesters are violent, you try to stop the violence, you arrest them, you shut
them down.
And I hope and I pray that President Trump puts somebody in charge at the DOJ, replaces
Jeff Sessions after the election, that calls for civility across our cities and stopping
the lunatic left-wing mobs.
These mobs are a danger to society and they will only escalate if they lose the midterm
elections, which looks increasingly likely.
And there are other things that are coming into play here over the next two weeks, things
coming out that I think will push this election even more in the direction of the GOP majority.
And yet, at the same time, never forget, Google and Facebook are right now committing
massive election fraud.
They are silencing pro-GOP voices and pro-Trump voices.
They are in effect attempting to steal this election right now.
They are committing massive election fraud.
They are doing what the Russians could never hope to do.
Google, YouTube, even Twitter, the selective silencing of conservative voices is election
meddling at its worst and that's what's being done right now by these tech giants.
And it's affecting our election.
So this is not over.
You need to get out and vote.
You need to encourage others to get out and vote.
If you don't vote, you're going to lose your country.
Democrats will be in charge and they'll use their power to destroy this nation.
It cannot allow that to happen.
Much more discussion straight ahead here on the Alex Jones show.
We'll be right back after this break.
We'll be right back after this break.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the U.S.
What if I told you for just $54.95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally
at heart and body extract?
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart.
Don't just take my word for it.
Check out all of the success stories at HBXTrack.com or to order call 866-295-5305.
That's 866-295-5305.
HBXTrack.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative,
InfoWarsLife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and
omega-3's found in our high quality ultra-pure krill oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and omega-3's, Ultimate Crill Oil can help
you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain
cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the
benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what krill oil
can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil, now available at InfoWarsStore.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product.
We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from
berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your
body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life as well as
MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold and the funguses and the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these
other products.
You can get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high
quality products at the same time.
I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out and I think it's going to be the same way with
this fiber.
Get yours today in ForwardsLife.com.
You know speaking about Kanye's meeting in the White House today and about racial unity
and racial healing for America, I've got a very powerful message here for you.
You know, it's about, it's not about the color of our skin.
It's about, you know, as Martin Luther King Jr. said, the content of our character.
But more importantly, it's about individual liberty and respecting the right of every
divine conscious human being, which includes, you know, people of every skin color or national
origin, the right of every individual to pursue life, liberty and happiness.
And as far as I'm concerned, anybody who is pro-liberty, anybody who supports that pursuit
of life, liberty and happiness is on team humanity.
And team humanity is what we represent as conservatives or Trump supporters or libertarians.
Team humanity, the Democrats are anti-life.
They want to destroy even unborn babies.
They want to destroy nations.
They want to destroy economies and sweep in communism, which is all about human suffering
and totalitarianism.
And obviously we must reject that, but here's something that you may not have thought about.
You know, all of us, if you go back far enough in our ancestry, did you know that all of
our ancestors are actually from Africa?
At one time in human history, there were only about, you know, according to science, there
were only about 4,000 humans alive.
And they were Africans and they all had dark skin because, you know, dark skin is a natural
sunscreen against the intense sunlight radiation.
When you live in Africa or live near the equator, you have to have that sun protection.
So actually dark skin pigmentation is a natural defensive shield against ultraviolet radiation
of the sun.
But over time, as humans prospered, and then there was migration where humans spread out
from Africa.
And some groups of humans went to, for example, the present-day Northern Europe.
And their sunlight was a lot less intense.
And so their skin over time, over many, many generations of just survival, became more
fair-skinned to allow more sunlight to come in so they could have more vitamin D because
vitamin D is absolutely crucial for preventing cancer, boosting immune function, and so
on.
If you have dark skin but you live in, let's say, London, you are not going to get enough
vitamin D to protect your health.
And so Europeans became more fair-skinned.
And that was the skin color differentiation.
And, you know, similar things happened in China and modern-day Russia and so on.
Wherever people lived closer to the equator, the skin became darker, and wherever groups
moved away from the equator, their skin became lighter.
This was all about a natural response to a sunlight and vitamin D intake.
Now, what this means, though, from a racial healing point of view is that all of us that
count ourselves as Americans, whether we have white skin or brown skin, black skin,
whether, you know, it doesn't matter, we are all, all humans, are really brothers and
sisters.
We are all related.
All of our ancestors came from Africa.
And that's really backed up by, you know, archaeology, anthropology, mainstream science.
So isn't it interesting that right now, as humanity is coming together to save ourselves
from tyranny and to save ourselves from authoritarianism, that we realize we are all unified by our
common history and yet the Democrat Party wants to divide us and turn us into enemies
against each other like brother fighting brother and sister fighting sister.
That's what the Democrats are trying to do.
They want to split us apart and weaponize us based on, yes, skin deep differences, just
things that you see visually, which means nothing about a person's character.
Kanye proved that today he proved that human character is much more than anything that
could be called skin deep.
He proved that he could outthink and have more compassion and have more presence of
mind and more spiritual divinity than all of those CNN commentators that are attacking
him, calling him, you know, the token Negro and all the mean, all the racist evil things
that CNN is now saying against Kanye, that he has outlasted that because he has a bigger
picture, a bigger vision of what we all are.
We're all divine beings.
We all have a common ancestry.
We're all frankly genetic brothers and sisters and we all desire one thing and that is to
be free.
We all desire freedom and I urge you today to let that be this unifying call for all
of us who desire freedom to say we welcome pro-liberty people, whether they are black
skinned or fair skinned or, you know, anything, whether they're gay or straight even like
Brandon Straka of the walk away movement, you know, openly gay, but openly pro-liberty
and he is leading people away from the destructive tendencies of the Democrat party, that total
destruction of human civilization, which is what Democrats seem to stand for today.
And this is where we need to understand this.
This is not simply about, you know, black and white.
This is not about Republican versus Democrats.
This is about do you want human civilization to survive versus do you want our world utterly
destroyed by the division and the destructive narrative of evil Democrats, sinister Democrats
who are liars and cheaters and they commit massive election fraud and some of them literally
kill off people who have evidence against them.
I mean, there are body bags, you know, stretched out a mile long behind some of these Democrat
leaders.
They're so evil, we cannot allow them to have power.
And so this is really a spiritual, this is a spiritual midterm.
It's much more than GOPE versus, you know, DNC.
This is about do you support life, liberty, the divinity of the human being, of human
consciousness, of your purpose of life here on this planet.
If you support that, then you support defeating the Democrats who are all about death and
destruction and deception.
Think about it.
They want black babies to be born alive.
They set up the abortion centers in black neighborhoods because they know that's where
they can kill the most black babies and commit the genocide, the actual eugenics that the
founder of Planned Parenthood talked about and promoted, that she wanted black people
to be wiped out, to be exterminated.
That's the message of the Democrats.
But it takes people waking up.
Many people who have voted Democrat all their lives are waking up now and they're fleeting
the Democrat Party.
I'm even hearing apologies from people.
People who thought when I went pro-Trump back in 2016 and I predicted the Trump victory
ahead of time and we were 100% pro-Trump.
Some people really attacked me over that.
Some of my own readers, some of my own audience, many of them have come back now and apologized
and rejoined my website, Natural News, and rejoined our efforts.
Now, you know what they say to me?
They say, Mike, I now realize that the Democrats of today are no longer the Democrats that
we grew up with.
We cannot be associated with these Democrats.
They don't represent what we represent.
They are not us.
I hear this over and over again.
They are not us because they see the lunacy.
They see the violence.
They see the derangement.
They see the bigotry and the racism of Democrats today.
The way they're treating Kanye today, that's racism, the way they're attacking him and
using racial slurs against Kanye.
That's unreal.
And, of course, they're racist against white people.
And now, with Senator Susan Collins voting to confirm Brett Kavanaugh, they're now racist
against white women.
The left-wing media is attacking white women and saying, well, now white women are the
problem.
Well, I remember last year I thought the problem was white men.
Well, now it's white women.
You see how they're just committing racial division, destruction of culture, destruction
of civilization, do not allow them to succeed, defeat Democrats at every election from here
forward.
And stay with me here on The Alex Jones Show.
Mike Adams, much more straight ahead.
We'll be right back after this short break.
I tried other brands, but I came back to my sunshine.
For the best hot or cold pain relief, get the best.
Sometimes life can be a pain in the neck, or back, or shoulder.
And the best relief for that pain is a sunny-bay heating pad.
Did you know that the American College of Physicians said that one of the best ways
to treat muscle pain is heat therapy?
Sunny-bay heating pads are handmade with high quality, can be used at home or at work,
and have a lifetime 100% positive rating on both Amazon and Etsy.
Why take another pill?
Many people use our sunny-bay heating pads alone and got rid of the neck pain.
Long distance travel or long hours in front of a computer can take its toll on your body.
Our homegrown small business tries to help people just like us.
That's why we design and test our handmade products with great care before we introduce
them to the public.
You can easily find sunny-bay heating pads on Amazon.
Just go to Amazon.com and search for sunny-bay heating pads.
Do you realize that when you spread the links from InfoWars.com, when you spread the videos,
you are changing the world?
It's you that has defeated Hillary and the Globalist.
It is you, the Info Warriors, across the planet that stood against the bullying, that stood
against the peer pressure, that stood against the threats that have now changed the world.
And that's why you've been on the team supporting us, praying for us, and spreading the word.
You are the InfoWars.
And now because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone
go to InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email so there's no way the
censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the InfoWars.com articles, to share the videos,
to tell people by the local stations you're listening to, but the bare minimum you can
do is sign up for the free newsletter at InfoWars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance and we are winning.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or
to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright
lights every day, but thanks to SuperMailVitality at InfoWarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against
the chemicals in the food and water, to fight back against the modern day lifestyle with
the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy
and drive to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfoWarsStore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you.
SuperMailVitality.com.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt
justice department and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and
why we've been made the main target and if you financially support us and if you spread
the word about our articles and videos, InfoWars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against
these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at InfoWars.com right now and we're still able to operate the shopping
cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Globals may win.
This is InfoWars Darker Sour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
There's a very narrow pathway for America to defeat the globalists and maintain liberty
and restore this constitutional republic in the way that it was founded.
And yet, even though it's a very narrow pathway, that path is being expertly navigated by President
Trump and many, many patriots like you and myself and Alex Jones and others.
And all of the weapons that can destroy civilization are being brought to bear against President
Trump and the U.S. economy.
Right now, there is an enormous act of economic sabotage that's being put together in order
to try to crash the stock market so that it can be blamed on President Trump and they're
desperately trying to crash the market before the midterm elections.
They may not accomplish that, but even after that, as long as they crash at some time in
the next two years, they can still blame President Trump in any case.
And so in this segment, I'm just going to mention what's actually happening, why this
is a deliberate effort to try to crash the market and some things that you might want
to consider doing to protect yourself from really an economic apocalypse that they're
trying to put together.
It's incredible.
These enemies of Trump are willing to do absolutely anything to push Trump out of power.
They're even willing to commit economic suicide for their own nation.
They're willing to, I believe, kill any number of people necessary for them to carry out
some kind of a false flag attack that they could blame on patriots.
They're willing to do anything.
They don't care about America succeeding.
They don't care about individual liberty being protected.
All they care about is gaining power.
And you saw this with the attacks on Brett Kavanaugh.
They're willing to smear anybody, to destroy any family.
They're willing to lie.
They're willing to fabricate.
They're willing to carry out false flags, fake accusations.
They're willing to call people serial rapists, anything that they can do to maintain power.
They will do it and rest assured that what they did to Brett Kavanaugh is a tiny, tiny
taste of what they're willing to do to America.
They will destroy America if it allows them to maintain power and eliminate their political
enemies.
And that's why, of course, funding this operation is so critical to the continued success of
InfoWars.
And right now, InfoWars has really a huge sale going on, 50% off all of the InfoWars
life branded products, which I believe there are dozens of different variations of products.
50% off, it's like better than Black Friday.
It's the biggest sale of the year.
Free shipping applies to all the purchases there at InfoWarsStore.com.
So be sure to check that out.
Fund this operation.
And by doing so, you are helping America navigate that very narrow window that I mentioned,
that window of defeating globalism.
Remember, they have tried to commit economic sabotage against the InfoWars operation.
They've tried to shut off the InfoWarsStore, the InfoWars payment processing system.
They've tried to eliminate InfoWars from every tech platform that you can imagine.
They've done it, and yet they cannot stop this machine because this machine is backed
by patriots who support America.
So support InfoWarsStore.com to vote for America with your financial support.
Now getting to the stock market situation, notice that, well, just to back up a little
bit of basic financial knowledge here, and I apologize if you're already fully aware
of this, but I just want to cover the basis here.
You know, when the Fed keeps interest rates very, very low, what they're doing is essentially
contracting the growth of debt in the economy.
I'm sorry, when they keep it artificially low, they are expanding the growth of debt
in the economy.
When they raise rates high, they are contracting the expansion of debt.
So in other words, when interest rates are low, as they were kept at near 0% under Barack
Obama, they're allowing the easy multiplication and creation of money and debt, which are
of course intertwined.
The creation of money and debt under low interest rate situations allows for very affordable
home purchases because you can get home loans more inexpensively.
It allows for banks to take more risks and to engage in more risky investments because
the cost of debt is lower.
And so you see more investment, you see even more investment in good projects such as capital
investment in businesses and factories and so on.
Low interest rates are designed to grow the economy.
They're designed to grow the money supply and make capital readily available for business
investment and business growth.
But it comes with, it increased risk and a lack of what you might call monetary or fiscal
discipline among investors.
Hedge funds tend to go crazy, they tend to make a lot of risky bets, tends to be a lot
of very risky bets on interest rates and risky bets in bonds, risky bets in real estate
and so on.
And that creates stock market bubbles over time or stock market valuations that are not
rooted in economic reality.
So what does the Fed do when they want to crash the market?
They start systematically raising interest rates.
What does this do?
It causes a collapse or you could say a rapid erosion of all of this easy debt, easy money,
low cost money, low cost debt.
It starts to contract rapidly.
As this contraction happens, it causes people to rethink their investments in stocks.
It causes them to, what we say in investment circles, to revalue the future value of present
day investments.
So you have to recalibrate the future value and that causes a lot of people to pull out
of stocks and pull out of real estate investments and pull out of projects.
They start selling.
Selling puts downward price pressure on the market and that is what we saw this week in
the stock market.
That's what we saw.
The Federal Reserve is trying to crash the market.
If they continue to raise rates as they have been systematically doing, only under President
Trump, not under Barack Obama, but only under Trump, they will eventually succeed in popping
the bubble, the bubble of irrational price valuations that now creates an upward mobile
effect on stock market prices or share prices and especially in the tech sector.
Many of these tech companies are priced at incredibly irrational valuations that cannot
be sustained by earnings.
And so they're going to get corrected at some point.
The Federal Reserve is trying to make sure the correction happens under President Trump.
So this is happening.
This is happening now and it's only by a miracle that the market hasn't really strongly contracted
yet.
Now, in terms of things that you can do, and by the way, this is the economic warfare on
President Trump, just so you know.
And I'm opposed to artificially low interest rates propping up stock market bubbles.
And I'm especially opposed to them doing it selectively only under Democrat presidents.
So the Fed has weaponized interest rates against our president.
And they're doing this as a form of economic sabotage, the same kind of economic sabotage
that's being deployed against Infowars itself, just different variations of that sabotage.
But what can you do?
Well, number one, I'm not your economic advisor.
You need to check with qualified professionals, but I can give you some general principles.
The most important thing to realize is that if you don't have real assets in your hand,
then it doesn't count until you sell.
So if you have stocks in the stock market, that doesn't count until they are realized
through a selling transaction of those assets, turning them into, let's say, cash, but even
cash because it's fiat currency.
You're holding cash, let's say, at a bank account in the US dollar.
That's not real either until you trade the cash for something that is real.
And by real, I mean something that you can touch, something that's physical, something
that holds value.
What are those things?
Well, if you're a regular listener, you know those things include gold and silver.
They can also include land.
They can also include very practical things such as where they are legal owning firearms
or ammunition for firearms or even first aid solutions, things that have real value.
Even let's say a 500 gallon tank of diesel on your farm.
Well, 500 gallons of diesel fuel has real value.
An old John Deere tractor has real value.
That's why I own a couple of them.
I like to buy John Deere tractors built in the 1970s because they're immune to EMP attacks.
They burn fuel and they help produce food.
That has real value in society.
But there are many things like that that have real value.
And I want to encourage you, no matter what your financial planning, to start thinking
about what things do you think you own that can disappear in a massive correction, things
that aren't real because they haven't been realized yet, versus things that are actually
real, things that you can touch, things that you can put your hands on, things that you
can hold on to that hold value, because those are the things that are going to survive this
attempted economic sabotage targeting our president and targeting our nation.
The Federal Reserve is at war with America.
I don't want you to be a casualty of that war.
So get informed, stay informed, and keep watching.
There's much more straight ahead here on The Alex Jones Show.
Mike Adams is filling in this fourth hour.
Stay with us.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Lelani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater and we need to be concerned about
ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles.
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity
in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa Pure Gravity Filter, and not only were the heavy
metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa Pure raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater
supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Stress is a natural part of life where family, friends, and everyday accidents can put a lot
of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down.
Happies is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's
daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years, Happies can help you take back the
day.
With our powerhouse formula, Happies can be an important part of your daily supplement
routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than
ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, Happies helps support
during stress, promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happies from
InfowarsStore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Infowar to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
in InfowarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Infowar
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power exclusively available at InfowarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities.
And it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at InfowarsLife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
The scientists at InfowarsLife have created a powerful formula for inflammatory support
and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for exuding properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper makes for optimal absorption to
help boost and support your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system, and so much
more.
Regular turmeric root from the store only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients, but
our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint, sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try Bodies today at InfowarsLife.com or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
You know, much of the conservative media and independent media I think really owes Infowars
an apology because Infowars and Alex Jones and myself and others, you know, David Knight,
Owen Scheuer, we have been so ahead of the curve on all of these things that we're seeing
come out today, things happening, for example, Civil War.
It's now being openly discussed even by Tucker Carlson and Sean Hannity and Rush Limbaugh
and others that, you know, Civil War is essentially now committed to by the Democrats.
And yet, I remember it wasn't too long ago when we were warning about Civil War and
then some voices were saying, no, no, that's hyperbole, there's not going to be any risk
of Civil War, Civil War 2.0, it's nonsense.
Now guess what, I think Infowars has owed an apology on that point because all of us
were ahead of the curve.
Another thing, you know, sometimes you hear conservative commentators say that, well,
they don't believe in conspiracies, and I've heard this from some sort of podcast leaders
and so on in conservative circles, they don't believe in conspiracies, they want to focus
on facts.
And then, well, guess what, you just covered this massive conspiracy to destroy Brett
Kavanaugh, and you know it was a conspiracy, you know that false accusations, you know,
leaks probably from Feinstein's office, you know, a Senator Schumer likely involved and
so on.
It was a massive conspiracy, it was an organized, orchestrated campaign to destroy an eminently
qualified individual, to destroy his life, destroy his reputation, you know, even I
think was the writer for the Colbert show, tweeted something like, at least we destroyed
his life, you know, at least we destroyed a good man.
And they're proud of that.
Well, this is an open admission, this was a massive conspiracy to destroy Brett Kavanaugh.
So where are the apologies to info wars, because conspiracies are in fact part of the playbook
of the Democrats.
They run conspiracies, they collude to destroy reputations, they did it against Clarence
Thomas as well.
They run conspiracies to steal elections.
What Google is doing today, what YouTube is doing, what Facebook is doing, the selective
censorship, it is an organized conspiracy to silence conservative voices.
So all those people out there who may be used to think, oh, there's no such thing as conspiracies,
nonsense.
That's actually the default position of how Democrats run things.
Everything is staged, everything is a false flag, everything is a false accusation, everything
is collusion, everything is fraud on the part of Democrats.
That's the only way they've been able to win elections.
The media conspires every day to lie to the American people and mislead the American
people.
They do it every day, that's their business model.
So no more of this talk that thinks, oh, there's no such thing as a conspiracy, give me a break.
That's how Democrats are running things.
But Infowars has been ahead of the curve on all of this.
About this civil war topic, by the way, I want to touch on the fact that Democrats are
now committing to this.
And they do not have, sometimes you see those coexist bumper stickers on cars.
Democrats can no longer coexist.
Think about it.
They cannot coexist with any opposing views.
They cannot allow a conservative speaker to speak at a university.
They cannot allow conservative ideas to exist in society at all.
In fact, Hillary Clinton herself said that they cannot coexist, essentially I'm paraphrasing,
but they cannot be civil.
They cannot have peace in a society unless their values are victorious.
And what are their values?
Well, Democrat values are anti-America values.
Democrat values are open borders.
Just have illegals sweep into the country and take over and vote for more Democrats.
Those are Democrat values.
Democrat values are dangerous for the continuity of society.
Democrat values are destructive.
But those are their values and they will not find peace.
They will not embrace peace unless their demands are met.
And this is the party that claims to be tolerant and diverse.
They claim to be pro-diversity, but they demand absolute obedience.
And I got to say that what we are doing right now, what you are doing in watching this show
and participating in these elections and voting for the GOP in the upcoming midterms, what
we are doing is now refusing to be victims.
Refusing to be victimized by these Democrats that have become the victimhood party.
They have won for many, many years.
They ran the Supreme Court for decades.
They've won elections.
They used to run Congress, but they have won by pushing self-victimization.
And yet we refuse to be victims.
We are making a choice to, as I say, opt out of victimhood.
And by making this choice, you can make a choice to opt out of all kinds of negative
situations and bad things happening in your life.
In the previous segment, I just talked about how you can opt out of financial destruction.
And one of the things that I'm going to be doing on the counter thing show and also talking
about health topics, and I'll plug it here, a website called optoutuniverse.com.
It's all free.
It's all public information.
It's how to opt out of cancer.
You don't have to die of cancer.
You can choose to not suffer from cancer.
You can choose to not be enslaved in a financial system.
You can choose to opt out of all of these horrible things that Democrats and the medical
establishment and the financial establishment is trying to push onto you.
And if you find value in what I'm contributing here to Infowars and the counter thing show,
I've got a lot more to offer society.
And by the way, I may be retiring in a couple of years, but before I retire from speaking
publicly, I'm going to lay down a document, the solutions for individuals like you, how
to opt out of disease, how to opt out of financial ruin, how to opt out of being enslaved because
I believe in humanity.
And I want to put that message out there and document those courses and put them out free
for everybody and share that here on Infowars and on the counter thing show.
I want to help humanity survive this assault that the Democrats are pushing on all of us.
And if there's any takeaway from my overall message today, it's that I believe in you.
I believe in humanity.
I believe in your human spirit.
I believe in divinity.
I believe in God.
I believe in your right to exist as a free conscious human being.
And I want to help you be empowered in every way that I can using every avenue that I can.
That's why I thank Alice Jones for allowing me to contribute here on Infowars.com.
And I thank you for listening to this segment and sharing this segment.
I believe in you.
Democrats believe in destruction and authoritarianism, evil and death.
They believe in eugenics.
They believe in destroying people.
They believe in absolute destruction to get what they want.
And we reject that.
We, you and I, conscious beings, we reject that at every level.
And we're going to continue to reject that and empower people with solutions every single
day.
Solutions that you can take action on, like right now, InfowarsStore.com, 50% off all the
Infowars life products.
That's an action that you can take.
You can get yourself some really amazing nutritional products.
You can financially support this network.
And this network gives voices to people like myself and many others who are bringing you
solutions.
So think about it.
You vote with your dollars.
You get nutritional solutions.
And then you get information solutions as well from other speakers and news analysis
individuals like myself and others who are bringing you this kind of information every
day.
It's win, win, win all the way around.
And if you win, and we win, and we win this election, America wins.
If Trump wins, America wins.
If Kanye wins, America wins.
And if America wins, we can help set humanity free all around the world because America
is the most ethical, the most honorable entity when liberty prevails.
And I don't mean everything that America has ever done is right.
They've made mistakes.
They've had too much military interventionism and so on.
But I'm talking about the spirit of America, the founding fathers, the spirit of individual
liberty, of truth and justice for all, of the right to pursue life, liberty and happiness.
These ideals need to be spread around the world.
For example, I think every country in the world should have a second amendment.
I think if there was a second amendment in North Korea, the citizens there would have
already overrun that corrupt regime.
And we wouldn't be dealing with corrupt North Korea.
I think the citizens of China should have a second amendment.
You know what I mean?
I think these should be universal truths, freedom to speak, freedom to think, freedom
to defend yourself, freedom to overrun corrupt dictatorial tyrannical regimes like the communist
regimes that are still in power all around this world.
America needs to survive in order to help support humanity's fight against tyranny
and evil globally.
I guess that's the takeaway message of what I'm saying here.
By helping us fight at this small level and at the election level, by helping America
survive and defeat the Democrats, you help humanity survive at a global scale.
That's something worth fighting for because humanity is a fragile, we are a fragile civilization.
We've seen nations fall under socialism like Venezuela.
We've seen liberty fall under tyrannical regimes like communist China.
Communist China is trying to overrun America right now.
We must defend this nation.
We must defend humanity so that we can prosper on a global scale against evil, against tyranny
against authoritarianism.
And just listening to this show and sharing this show is part of that solution of how
we can defeat evil and prosper as a divine human race of brothers and sisters who all
share the same common dreams and want the same liberty.
Infowars.com, folks.
This is where you get the information.
I'm Mike Adams.
Thanks for watching.
Until next time, be safe, make America great again.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids
get their EPA and DHA, too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child, built from the ground up to
support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultra-purified krill oil, and wild salmon fish oil with
vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive,
and brain health while providing DHA, which has been shown to be essential for your child's
brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly
refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at infowarstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
