whisper_model_load: loading model from 'whisper.cpp/models/ggml-large.bin'
whisper_model_load: n_vocab       = 51865
whisper_model_load: n_audio_ctx   = 1500
whisper_model_load: n_audio_state = 1280
whisper_model_load: n_audio_head  = 20
whisper_model_load: n_audio_layer = 32
whisper_model_load: n_text_ctx    = 448
whisper_model_load: n_text_state  = 1280
whisper_model_load: n_text_head   = 20
whisper_model_load: n_text_layer  = 32
whisper_model_load: n_mels        = 80
whisper_model_load: f16           = 1
whisper_model_load: type          = 5
whisper_model_load: adding 1608 extra tokens
whisper_model_load: mem_required  = 4712.00 MB
whisper_model_load: ggml ctx size = 2950.97 MB
whisper_model_load: memory size   =  304.38 MB
whisper_model_load: model size    = 2950.66 MB

system_info: n_threads = 6 / 16 | AVX = 1 | AVX2 = 1 | AVX512 = 0 | NEON = 0 | F16C = 1 | FP16_VA = 0 | WASM_SIMD = 0 | BLAS = 0 |

main: processing './wav/20171016_Mon_Alex.wav' (228194012 samples, 14262.1 sec), 6 threads, 1 processors, lang = en, task = transcribe, timestamps = 1 ...


The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Man, I tell you, they say everything's bigger in Texas, but this is the coolest gun shop I've ever been here.
I've been here quite a few times in their shooting range, but I never, never spent any time here in their actual gallery where they're selling all these great firearms.
I mean, you think about, you think about what goes on in third world countries where they keep the public poor on purpose, or you think about what happens in communist countries where people are disarmed.
But I mean, this really is what separates Americans from almost everybody else in the world, except maybe the Swiss is that we can still get firearms.
And it's this revolution that really is make or break it for America.
And we're beginning to win because gun owners are taking people out in a safe way and taking folks that have been domesticated out shooting.
And then once they start shooting, they get in power.
I can't tell you how many times I've gone out with Mike Judge, who's a big Hollywood producer, and taken crew from different TV shows and movies.
He's producing shooting a lot of the crew and the stars from shows like Silicon Valley.
We took about 15 of them out shooting a few years ago.
And within an hour, they were all converted to, wow, I've never shot a gun before.
And I'm shooting bulls out a hundred yards with a two to three.
This was like liberal, you know, female stars, male stars, you name it.
Within an hour, we're already awake saying, why shouldn't I be able to protect myself?
Why shouldn't I be able to have this fun?
I'm competent.
I'm not a criminal.
That's what we're talking about right here in America.
Now, I don't know if this is accurate, but I was watching Pawn Stars and they claim there's only like 10 or 15 of these in the whole country.
Is that true?
I believe so.
And we are very lucky to actually have one.
And this is a great centerpiece.
I mean, it's a beautiful piece of machinery when you really look at it.
I mean, you got to really appreciate the construction of it and how it works and the ingenuity of that time period.
It's amazing.
So this is the Gatling gun from Civil War.
Yeah, pretty much.
Now we've got the modern day version of this bad boy on the other side of the park.
Oh, let's go look at that.
Wow.
Yeah, because on Pawn Stars, they were debating whether it's like 10 or 15.
And like authentic one.
Yeah.
Now, so that's an authentic one.
Yes.
Amazing.
This is a modern day.
Wow.
Yes.
Take a look at that.
This is what Jesse Ventura supposedly walks around with.
I would say that's a pretty beefy gun.
Yeah, get ready for real backache.
So what is this bad boy?
So this is a 7.62 minigun.
This is what you typically see in most of our special operations birds.
You see these mounted on most of our vehicles.
They're outside of our birds now.
Just lay down a tremendous amount of firepower.
So one trigger is going to activate a cyclic rate of about 750 rounds per minute,
which is pretty significant.
You typically would use that to get on target.
And then with the flip of the switch, you go to 1100 rounds per minute, which is just
a huge amount of increased firepower at that point.
So you use the lower rate just to target.
Yeah, kind of.
You know, when you're just kind of, you know, messing around.
But then when you're when it's all business and serious.
Oh, yeah.
And you go right into that second.
Beautiful.
And I mean, it's a minigun.
Shoot it this way while he talks over that way.
It looks amazing.
Yeah, that is a pretty, pretty intimidating look when you're looking at the business
end of this thing.
I would not ever want to be on the receiving end of this bad boy.
It's just it's a death zone.
There's nothing you can really do.
There's nothing you can hide behind.
There's nothing you can hide from.
You can't outrun this thing.
You're pretty much toast.
Oh,
when I was growing up as a child, I heard my grandfather and other
World War Two vets talk about we've got our Second Amendment.
We've got our First Amendment and we've got free market.
And I thought, oh, quit harping all day about how great America is.
And it wasn't until I got older that I realized how much attack it was under.
So I love handguns.
I love revolvers.
I love semi-auto, full auto.
I've shot it all.
But there's something as an American rifleman about a 308 Remington 700
within just a few shots out at the range to be able to hit bullseye 400 plus
yards that is magic that my friends is the equalization of power against the
globalists that my friends is Americana.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue
Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
BioTrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of
100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which
influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy,
weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in
your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.

Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the
front lines of the InfoWars.
Here we are yet again, another global live transmission.
Monday, October 16, 2017. Owen Schroer is coming up with a lot of breaking news and
we'll be riding shotgun with me off and on today.
I'll also be working behind the scenes on some big developing stories as well.
So keep your eyes on InfoWars.com and NewsWars.com because we are entering the
thick of the battle.
Again, thank you so much for joining us on this Monday edition.
Well, it's official. The Democratic Party and the Republican establishment are openly
saying they're preparing to move in the next month or so with the 25th Amendment
declaring the president to be mentally unfit.
Now, if you go back two months ago, former Vice President Al Gore, former head of the
CIA Brennan, former deputy director of the CIA, Mr. Mudd, his name is Mudd, no joking,
did come out and say within a couple months the president will be removed and it will
be non-legislative. And then many on Capitol Hill were told it would be violent.
In fact, Mudd said we're going to quote, kill the president.
But more and more we see they're going to go with the 25th Amendment route claiming
that he's mentally ill and that he's damaging the country.
Now, why are they panicking so bad? We just saw a young 31-year-old populist libertarian
style Trump leader, Sebastian Kurz, in Austria defeat the liberal Democrat parties there
in a big election.
You're seeing nationalism spread from Brazil to Austria to Australia to Russia to the United
States to Canada. And communism and socialism is increasingly seen as the failed ideologies
that they indeed are.
So now we have Senator Bob Corker, the disgraced individual under criminal investigation,
preparing to resign from the Senate and announcing he's not going to run again.
And he is the figurehead now. He is the leader, they believe, that can bring down Trump.
It shows you how pathetic they are. And the fact that they are panicking that the economy
is coming back. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, an all-time high of 23,000 today.
And so we have this former Bush aide, Michael Gerson, that means the mouth of the Bush crime
syndicate, the folks that voted 3% for Jeb Bush, they still think the public is going
to accept them, tells GOP establishment it's time to panic about Trump.
This is in the Wall Street Journal. This is in the Washington Post. This is being pushed
everywhere, saying he's going to start World War III because of North Korea, when it was
the system of appeasement and of, quote, strategic patience under the Clintons that gave the
reactors and the missiles to North Korea.
So now, he's insane because he's listening to his military advisors on the policies there.
Tillerson plays good cop, Trump plays bad cop. And again, CNN and others try to deceive
the public, acting like there isn't congruent strategy and stratagems going on inside the
Trump White House.
The truth is, internationally, we've seen win after win against the EU, against ISIS,
against NATO, against the globalists, and getting all these countries from South Korea
to Japan to Germany to France to pay their share of operations like NATO. And what's
going on there in the partnership in the South China Sea.
People respect Trump. They know he's strong. The economy shows that. The new jobs show
that. But they are intensifying their massive panic.
Gerson urges Republicans to join, again, their failed champion, Senator Bob Corker, to publicly
raising two questions. Is Trump psychologically and morally equipped? And that, of course,
will be mainstream media and Congress that decides to be president.
And could his unfitness cause permanent damage to the country? Globalism was killing the
country and strangling the economy by design. Though Gerson does not explicitly state how
he would like them to act, The Washington Post offers a clue. At the very end of Gerson's
column, the Post has embedded a video made by one of their staffers titled, How's 25th
Amendment Work?
The video's caption reads, The 25th Amendment sets forth a procedure to removing a president
from office. Here's how it's enacted. Well, you've got all these Democrats pushing it.
You've got all these Republicans pushing it. Because they're losing. They're losing primaries.
They're losing runoffs. They're losing every special election from Colorado to Alabama.
They don't know what to do. Globally, there's an awakening against the technocracy, against
the private corporate megabanks, against the Davos Group.
Even former heads of the Davos Group have come on this show and gone public about the
fact that it's dead on arrival, that globalism is authoritarianism, and that people are rejecting
it. So what are they gonna do? I said this last Monday. We laid it out in detail here
because it was crystal clear what was happening.
And Roger Stone's gonna be joining us later with Owen Schroer to break all of this down.
They tried to have Hillary and Bill Clinton bring out women with connections to the Democratic
Party and women with John Doe or Jane Doe names with no proof, with fake court filings,
claiming that Trump grabbed them or Trump did this or Trump did that, when the allegations
were over a decade old.
There'd never been any proof. And they'd only recently brought them up politically. They
were going after Trump on their weak points to change the subject. They even had two fake
filings in Texas and in New York, saying that Trump had had 15-year-old girls grabbed at
bus stops 20-something years ago, and that he and Jerry Epstein had raped them, even
though Trump knew Epstein had been at public events with him and once to his house in Florida.
And we talked to Trump about it. He gets there. There's a bunch of looks like 15-year-old
girls in the pool. And Trump says, I'm getting the hell out of here.
We told that story back during the campaign. That's directly from Roger Stone, who talked
to the president about it. He didn't make 20-plus flights on Jerry Epstein's plane to
the Alita Express torture island. He didn't fly to the Middle East with known sheiks or
known pedophiles. He never flew with Jerry Epstein one time. He wasn't associated with
Weiner. He didn't represent as a young lawyer like Hillary did pedophiles.
He wasn't associated with the Arab Spring, mass raping and killing Christians and women
and throwing priests off buildings and gays off buildings. No. So outcomes from the midst
of this summer servos with Gloria Allred, the usual suspect who also brought forward
previous women and those lawsuits blew up in Allred's face and disappeared like phantoms
at dawn.
So now they're back again. And what did I say? It was very, very clear. You can see
it coming a few weeks ago. I remember specifically last Monday, I laid it out just to show you
that we understand the model of how these people operate. And you can discover how they
operate by getting inside their heads and bring them down.
First you've got them trying to have Hillary and Bill, the known sex abusers and sex abuse
enablers, the lady that first called women that talked about Bill, bimbo eruptions, even
though he brutally raped him and he settled many of the cases. So they try to turn around
against Trump. It didn't work. The media tried to sell it against Trump. People saw the hypocrisy.
So the establishment went, well, you know what? The problem is we shouldn't have used
the Clintons as the example against Trump. It was too hypocritical. It was too ridiculous.
It was too one-sided. People saw right through it. So what do we do?
We know that there's all these cases coming out with Harvey Weinstein and that they just
changed his contract recently to protect themselves from all the sex assault reports that are
already coming. They've been suppressing these reports since the late 1990s with him with
underage girls who've come forward. We're talking 17-year-olds he tried to grab, tried
to go after. They really covered it up in 2004, again, using Matt Damon, Ben Affleck,
George Clooney, and the usual suspects, The New York Times and NBC.
They all covered that up in mess. So what were they going to do? Well, wait, go ahead
and burn Weinstein, as it's already coming out. Bring that into the media, give the media
a facelift with them actually going after a real abuser and a big Hollywood dirtbag
that everybody hates. As America turns against Hollywood, you see MSNBC, CNN, and the mainstream
dinosaur media turning against its own allied corrupt system, hoping if they throw it to
the wolves, the public will have some type of credit with them and it will give them
some type of credibility.
This is desperation to remain pertinent and to look like you're staying in the ballgame
at some level. Then once they've done the media facelift by going after Harvey Weinstein,
they then turn against Trump. They already had this set up weeks ago, you can tell, and
roll out Gloria Allred's latest minion. We'll be back with a clip of her so-called testimony
and more straight ahead. I'm Alex Jones.
>> Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick, meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10 year shelf life. NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and served. Life saving, ready to eat bacon.
Ten year shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
>> The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
>> North Korea openly threatens the U.S. and launches a new missile every other week. Their
warhead of choice? Electromagnetic pulse. Such an event would cripple the U.S. power
grid for years and leave millions in the dark. Are you ready? You can be with a Solarc EMP
hardened solar generator. Solarc works day in and day out to keep your essentials protected.
You can have peace of mind knowing your power will be there when you most need it. Visit
PortableSolarLLC.com to see EMP testing. That's PortableSolarLLC.com. Energy insurance for
your family.
>> KatiArmor.com is your one-stop shop for the highest quality body armor, period. Why
would you go anywhere else? Go to KatiArmor.com and get your body armor today while you still
can. Go to KatiArmor.com. That's KatiArmor.com.
>> ProPure water filters, most trusted, most tested. Right now you can save 25% on the
ProPure Nomad Gravity System. Visit an authorized ProPure dealer for details. That's P-R-O-P-U-R.
>> Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have
now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and
try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at Infowarslife.com. This coffee gives
you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other
coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years
to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today, order
a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original
or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press, all the
while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at Infowarslife.com.
>> Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride-free products. Infowarslife
brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed to deliver
a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum
flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super blue fluoride-free mouthwash
and supercharge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient
ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing fluoride, our
super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds
that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue fluoride-free
mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free
products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at Infowarsstore.com.
That's Infowarsstore.com.
>> You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
>> You're listening to Infowars Live. Your host, Alex Jones. Yours truly. Thank you so
much for joining us on this global transmission, this live Monday broadcast. Now coming up,
the Las Vegas massacre has completely come off the rails.
The wheels have come off the official story. The sheriff is acting like someone who is
a deer in the headlights and really changing his story. It's dramatic footage. We've got
a compilation of that coming up later in the next hour that I put together with Rob Duke.
But right now, let's get back to the big story here. You've got the Republican and Democratic
party leadership hanging on by their fingernails as a global populist movement explodes against
unelected corporate world government that has bought and sold our politicians for at
least 50 years.
They're moving ahead with the 25th Amendment challenge against the president. Now enter
into that Summer Zervos, who is being handled by Gloria Allred, who already brought forward
other suits that got thrown out of court. Now she's claiming that while on the host
of The Apprentice, more than a decade ago, Trump grabbed her, kissed on her, and tried
to pick her up. But just a year ago, and again, two years ago and three years ago, she was
always trying to get jobs from Trump or getting Trump to come into her business, come into
her restaurant and give her attention.
And if you look at the body language and her behavior and who she's working for and the
timing and the mainstream media and all of this, it's as funny as a $3 bill in my book.
And remember, we saw the PR rollout of this two weeks ago. I said, when they're done with
Weinstein, they're going after Trump. That's what this whole buildup is. And that's because
the Clintons tried to do this, and that's the pot calling the kettle black big time.
That's like Lucifer telling somebody that took a drink of whiskey that they were actually
the head devil. I mean, it's just, or it's like a child molester telling somebody that
had a crooked toenail that the guy with the crooked toenail was really the bad guy. Trump
never had any of these reports, never had any of these problems, never had any history
of this until he was running for president.
And all the other cases were proven to be frauds. So now, why is this happening? The
media needs a facelift. They tried to run the sex abuser and the sex abuse enabler,
Hillary, the Clinton combine, Billary, against Trump. It didn't work, the public saw through
it. So now the media gives itself a facelift, goes after the king of Jell-O, Bill Cosby,
goes after some of these other people, goes after other low-level Hollywood people, finally
goes after Weinstein because they knew that fruit was about to fall off the tree to begin
with.
This was a desperate move to give themselves a facelift, to look credible, to go, it's
not political, it's just the season of comeuppance. Going after the evil Hollywood elite that
they know we all hate, and then equating that with populism and Trump with no proof.
Here is an excerpt of her testimony.
>> I was standing in the entryway. To my left was a bedroom, and I saw Mr. Trump's clothes
on the bed. I did not see him, but he greeted me with hello in a sing-song voice. It sounded
like hello. I thought the mistake had been made, and Mr. Trump thought he was speaking
to someone he was more familiar with.
I walked further into the living room, away from the bedroom, and sat down. I waited for
about 15 minutes until Mr. Trump emerged. He had his suit on.
>> Really bad acting in my view. >> I stood up, and he came to me and started
kissing me open-mouthed as he was pulling me towards him. I walked away and I sat down
in a chair. He was on a left seat across from me, and I made an attempt at conversation.
He then asked me to sit next to him. I complied.
>> He then grabbed my shoulder and began to kiss me again very aggressively, and placed
his hand on my breast. I pulled back and walked to another part of the room. He then walked
up, grabbed my hand, and walked me into the bedroom.
>> Okay, so in my view, that's bad acting. She couldn't get a job working for a soap
opera. She's reading off a piece of paper, looking down. And she tried to get Trump to
come to her restaurant, and tried to get Trump to have her involved in his programs and things
just a year ago.
So she's been pursuing him, and now she's up here, this what washed up wannabe reality
TV show contestant. And she's saying the President of the United States did this to her, but
she didn't say anything back at the time it happened when he was the host of The Apprentice.
So Trump campaign subpoenaed over sexual assault allegations. Lawyers for one of the women
who have accused Donald Trump of sexual assault subpoenaed the campaign for all documents
relating to her.
All communications with or about her and all documents concerning any women who asserted
that Donald J. Trump touched her inappropriately. This comes in the case of Summer Zervos, a
former contestant on The Apprentice who accused Trump of sexual assault. In 2007, the accusations
were made in October of last year at a news conference.
Zervos claims Trump kissed her twice on the lips during a lunch meeting. Isn't that disinteresting?
But to be clear, quote, Trump says, I never met her at a hotel or greeted her inappropriately
a decade ago.
That is not who I am as a person, and it is not how I've conducted my life. In fact, Mrs.
Zervos continued to contact me for help, emailing my office on April 14th of this year, asking
that I visit her restaurant in California, Trump said. And they've got all that information,
Trump goes on to say it's a total fiction, all false stuff, and said there is a concerted
effort to take down his campaign.
That was back at the time. Now there's a concerted effort to stop the rally of the stock market
at any cost. But here's the good news. They've weaponized the NFL against America. They've
weaponized Hollywood against America for a long time. They've weaponized mainstream news.
They've weaponized, and anybody doing it is seeing 10 to 15 point drops per year consecutively,
where the NFL is down 35 points this year.
They are the most unpopular sports group in America. And now the NBA and everybody else
that wanted to be political and globalist and force feed garbage, people are walking
with their feet. They are voting with their feet. They are saying no, it's their right.
You have your free speech, we have ours. And now the owners that own your little entertainment
franchises are saying, listen, we can tell you don't spike a ball in the end zone.
Don't get in a fight. We can fine you for wearing the wrong shoes that we want. You
are gonna follow the old rule to stand for the anthem. Don't put your hand over your
chest, but you're gonna stand up. You're paid. You got free speech out of here to do whatever
you want, but not here.
Well, Colin Kaepernick, the little spoiled rotten SJW Soros minion, who only made $200
plus million in his career, who had the last two seasons were terrible. No team wants to
sign you because you are horrible at football and because you're a spoiled brat. There's
photos I've seen of him years ago, standing around with a huge $20 million house, Lamborghinis,
Ferraris in front of him.
I just wanna ask, is this the America that treated you so bad and you hate your fans
so much and everybody's out to get you? Well, here's the good news. We're rejecting you.
So he's filed a lawsuit, agreements with the NFL, saying they're discriminating against
him because basically of his politics and because he's black.
Yeah, that's why 90 plus percent of the starters are black. That's why you're making hundreds
of millions of dollars. And now the owners of the teams don't want you to bankrupt them
further. Hey, I hope they put you back on. I hope they put you on the Cowboys or something
and you help bring down the whole stinking thing.
Because it's a diversion for men. They just spend time with their families. It's been
corrupt forever. It's a sick, filthy joke, and it all needs to collapse along with Hollywood
and the rest of it. And it is collapsing. We're watching their death rows. We'll be
back. Stay with us.
Hey, Daniel Brinkman, why NuMana, storable foods?
We believe in freedom. America needs strong, independent families to endure what's ahead.
And we take this charge seriously. We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals,
great taste and value. NuMana is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your NuMana today. Call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775. Online discounts available at
powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com.
With nearly 70 years of history engineering bunkers, today Atlas Survival Shelters is
still the authority. Atlas offers 18 different choices from commercial tornado shelters to
underground nuclear fallout shelters. Starting at just $99.99 with 100% financing available.
Comfortable interiors and state-of-the-art air filtration systems, Atlas Survival Shelters
are the most popular private survival shelters in the world. Call 1-855-4BUNKER now or visit
atlassurvivalshelters.com.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrix Essentials. Perfect for face and
body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you
need sun protection. We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful
chemicals and toxins. This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest
particle size used, and we do not use nanoparticles. The larger the particle, the safer it is for
your body. The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth. The truly
natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin. Emrix Essentials wants you
to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life. Naturally
protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrix Essentials. Stop exposing yourself
and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the
new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
As most of you already know, I am a voracious consumer of news and information. And in the
last four or five years doing more and more research, I came across the fact that the
elite establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors in many cases
had much better nutrition than we do today. And our ancient ancestors sought out the bones
of the animals that they were hunting, killing, and then processing. And so I set out to develop
caveman, but to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken, but seven other superfood
ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time. Infowars isn't
just fighting the globalist, we're getting results and we're expanding in the face of
the complete media assault and winning because of your support. Caveman is back in stock.
People absolutely love it. So please secure your caveman today at infowarslife.com or
by calling toll free, triple A two five three, three, one three nine.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor? That's right. Now's the time to build your own food
storage with harvest rights freeze dryers. Go to infowarsstore.com to learn more and
check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use. And let me tell you something,
it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire
meals. That's what I'm talking about. And when compared to traditional methods of preservation
like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is
no comparison. Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and
nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years. Now that's what I call the
miracle of food preservation. Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable
freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well,
so does he. Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
That's right, folks. This is the Info War. This is The Alex Jones Show. Filling in for
Alex Jones, I am Owen Schroer. We're going to hear from Roger Stone later today as well
as Jack Posobiec in the fourth hour. Ton of news to cover, some video clips to get to,
and we see the tea leaves. Alex Jones predicted it a while ago. They're going to try to
rehash this Trump as a sexual predator deal, and they're going to use the momentum off
of the Harvey Weinstein gate to try to get it to work. And I'll just say this. I'm expecting
them to start to release some tapes on Trump. I think that they probably have some other
tapes. They're probably pretty mild, maybe in the same light that the Billy Bush tapes
were in, but it's not going to matter. That's the key. It's not going to matter. America
has already rebuked the fake mainstream media. We've already rebuked the political establishment,
and Trump is that representation.
So it doesn't matter how much they try to slander Trump's character or bring him down.
The people are behind Trump because of what he represents, and that's an idea, and that's
an America First policy, and that's a president in the White House that is actually going
to put America's concerns before their own and before that of their big donors and their
foreign donors.
And this is what InfoWars has been fighting for since Alex Jones started, and he's come
a long way since when he began. InfoWars is now live 10 hours a day, and that's thanks
to your support out there going to InfoWarsStore.com, buying our great products. And I got to thank
Alex Jones because he takes care of us here at the office, and we have an Alexa Pure Breeze
air purifier in every room here at the InfoWars offices. This is something that you want at
your house too, folks.
The Alexa Pure Breeze air purifier is 20% off right now at InfoWarsStore.com. That's
a limited time offer, 20% off, the Alexa Pure Breeze air purifier. One of the best units
you can get for air purification. I have one in my home. I know that everyone at InfoWars
loves this. They also have it at their homes, and it works, folks. Alex is not kidding.
You can sneeze 100 yards away from one of these things, and it immediately kicks into
gear. It's just amazing. I highly recommend it. Alexa Pure Breeze, and it's 20% off. That's
a huge savings right now at InfoWarsStore.com. We got other savings going on as well. Bio
True Selenium, 40% off, and that's 50% off if you get auto ship. Yeah, there's the Alexa
Pure Breeze, 4.8 star review, almost 500 reviews on that bad boy. That's a mean machine right
there when it comes to air purification. You will notice a difference with that. But don't
forget 40% off Bio True Selenium, and with auto ship, that's 50% off. A lot of people
forget about the auto ship option. This super combo, which is Survival Shield X2, Nacin,
Triton, and Bio True Selenium, that combo is 40% off. That combo itself has a 4.9 star
review. That is incredible. Two products, a 4.9 star review, 40% off. You can get Bio
True Selenium and Survival Shield X2, the super combo, 40% off. And again, just look
at how highly rated these products are with the reviews that we have. People try it, they
love it, and then they come back for more, and we offer the greatest specials. Don't
forget 50% off Brain Force as well. I don't know how much longer we can do that, but we
do have that offer still running. They're selling it off the shelves. I literally have
people asking me for whole boxes of this. I'm not even kidding, requesting hundreds
of Brain Force bottles because this is such a popular product and the special is so huge.
So get to Infowarsstore.com before we run out. Well, you know what? I've got a stack
of news here. Alex has pretty much broken down what the globalist next move is against
Trump. We've got Roger Stone coming up at 1.30, Jack Posobiec at 2. He's going to have
a guest, Jacob Wohl from OffendAmerica.com. But let's just get into some of the news.
Where to begin, guys. Let's look at this Hillary Clinton thing. I just want to get this out
of my way. Let's just get this out of the way. Let's get this nauseating thing out of
the way. So Hillary Clinton, she caked on the makeup like Pennywise and then gave an
interview on an Australian TV network. She had something to say about Julian Assange.
And again, what you're going to hear from Hillary Clinton here is projecting exactly
what she is on her enemies. Listen to the latest blatant lies out of the mouth of the
demon witch, Hillary Clinton.
I think Assange has become a kind of nihilistic opportunist who does the bidding of a dictator.
Lots of people, including in Australia, think that Assange is a martyr for free speech and
freedom of information. How would you describe him?
I mean, he's a tool of Russian intelligence. And if he's such a martyr of free speech,
why doesn't WikiLeaks ever publish anything coming out of Russia?
Isn't he just doing what journalists do, which is publish information when they get
it?
I don't think so. I think for number one, it's stolen information. And number two, if
all you did was publish it, that would be one thing. But there was a concerted operation
between WikiLeaks and Russia and most likely people in the United States to, as I say,
weaponize that information.
Yeah, you know, you still have yet to deny that the content of those emails is real.
So how are you weaponizing information that's real? Oh, I see. Oh, oh, we're weaponizing
the information by making it available to the public.
No, Hillary Clinton, you are the weapon against America. You are the globalist weapon against
freedom. So then Julian Assange responds, there's something wrong with Hillary Clinton.
It is not just her constant lying. It is not just that she throws off menacing glares and
seethes thwarted entitlement. I mean, seriously, this is the most arrogant witch. She just
seriously encapsulates the most arrogant witch you could ever see. Watch closely. Something
much darker rides along with it. A cold creepiness rarely seen.
Wow, I couldn't agree more with Julian Assange. I was saying this to my war room crew a while
ago. I was like, guys, we can't even do Hillary anymore. She makes me so nauseous. I can't
even do it. But she continues to come out and try to take this country down. So we're
going to continue to address her.
You know, speaking of trying to take this country down, we're still trying to pick up
some of the trash left behind from the Obama administration. So now Army Sergeant Bo Bergdahl
is pleading guilty to desertion and misbehavior.
You know, and let's not forget that while all this is going on, so Barack Obama makes
the deal to bring the deserter back home, trades five terrorists for the deserter, who
it looks like, I mean, I don't know what kind of jail time potentially he's going to face
or what his consequences are for this.
But let's not forget what happened when President Obama gave a speech with Bergdahl's parents
and the father got up to the podium and spoke perfect Pashtun, one of the hardest languages
to speak, had a full beard. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but you know where
your thought processes go.
And then after that, you can see President Obama walking with the Bergdahls. Everyone's
embracing each other, smiling, laughing all over a soldier that betrayed his unit, misbehaved
and deserted and is now going to have to face crimes.
So that's interesting. Here's more of Obama's trash. Heaps of it. Illegal alien accused
of murdering 18-year-old student was in DACA program. So Daniel DeJesus Rangel Scherer,
19, accused of murder, kidnapping and possession of a weapon during a violent crime in connection
with the death of an 18-year-old, Diana Martinez Gonzalez. So he takes Diana Martinez Gonzalez
out to the woods, murders her. There was one other victim that he probably would have also
tried to murder, but she was able to get away. And yes, this individual was protected from
deportation because of the DACA program.
So there's one murderer, at least one that we know of. There's multiple, but here's one,
a murderer kept here because of Barack Obama. Do you hear that? Then the Democrats, a murderer
kept here because of the Democrats. We'll be right back.
Use to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium. This
powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. BioTrue Selenium's formula
is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high
quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine
crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which
influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog. Survival
Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take
control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com. You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout
by InfoWars Life. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such
as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout
packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions
of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life,
we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10
known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed
and take on the day. InfoWars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes
above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of Knockout. Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye
to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com. Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry.
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance
to organize and prepare a defense. 60 years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching
filled with bombs, they had drums of their own, air raid sirens. But in the 21st century,
there are silent weapons for quiet war. Pathogens added to the food and water, to the lining
of plastics that destroy our vitality, turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey
towards death. I personally counter this onslaught with AnthroPlex. AnthroPlex is designed with
known, organic, concentrated herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity
inside the human body. Discover why AnthroPlex is turning so many heads today. It's time
for us to take our bodies back into our own hands, and it starts at InfoWarsLife.com with
AnthroPlex. Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostagard. It's
time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance. InfoWars Life has
set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there, but
formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts
that our experts recommend. The Prostagard formula does just that, with its mixture of
plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support. It's a
hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium,
and copper. Prostagard is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day, and
from our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen
in order to keep their body going at optimal levels. Now's the time to start naturally
supporting your body. Get Prostagard on your side today, exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from
the front lines of the InfoWars.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. Filling in for Alex Jones for now, Owen Schroer.
And we've picked up a lot of new listeners, I think, because of our coverage on the Las
Vegas massacre. We're willing to go where other programs won't. We're willing to ask
the questions that everyone's thinking that might not be politically correct, and we're
willing to call out a cover-up when we see it, even though the fake news is going to
attack us for it. But it's all coming to light. They're not going to get away with this. And
more people are starting to remove the rose-colored glasses that they use to watch television
news when they're seeing television news completely go along with the official story that makes
no sense when you use common sense. Of course, Vegas is suffering for this, and the big-wig
casino owners aren't going to like that. Las Vegas tourism sees changes in aftermath of
shooting. Yes, tourism is obviously down, but you would expect that, especially in the
certain months following. Shifting Las Vegas massacre narratives has gamblers on edge,
even the regulars that are in Vegas constantly are concerned about what's going on. And again,
everybody sees the cover-up. Everybody sees the false narrative. I mean, there's all these
manhunts that go on. Manhunts after the Boston Marathon bombing. There was a manhunt, I think
it was in Ohio, for a killer. But no manhunt over what happened in Vegas? Nothing? When
it's clear there were probably multiple shooters? No manhunt, though. We're told it's all fine,
it's all under control, we got 'em. We got Paddock. Vegas shooter's brain probed for
hidden diseases. I'm still trying to figure this out, because this is a story that keeps
propping up every day. Someone new is reporting a new angle about his brain being probed.
Can he shoot himself? What is going on? Did he not shoot himself in the mouth? I'm trying
to figure this out here. This is another just ambiguousness of the whole Paddock thing.
Did he shoot himself? Was he shot by someone else? How can you do any studies on someone's
brain that had damage from a bullet? Or even beyond that, just suffered from massive internal
bleeding? But they keep saying, "We looked at his brain, and it's provided us no answers."
Oh, oh, so just like everything else. Wow, shocking. And then Agent Ruse from the FBI
comes out and says, "We've made progress with this investigation." And then everybody's
sitting here scratching their head like, "What progress exactly?" 'Cause we still have
the exact same questions we had day one. So what progress have you made? Oh, I guess you've
made significant progress in the cover-up, haven't you? That's right, you've successfully
ran with the fake narrative since the whole thing began. And you keep coming back to the
same questions. What about the lady running around saying that everybody was going to
die? Nothing. What about all of the eyewitness reports and videos that indicate multiple
shooters? Nothing. I remember the first thing that people were saying, actually, before
any of this, when they released Steven Paddock and his information was, "How did... How old
was Steven Paddock, like 64 or something? How did somebody that old pull this off by
himself?" That was actually the first instinctual response that some people had to me. But again,
that just gets lost in the translation of all this.
Now here's another eyewitness report. This is from the Confessionals podcast. The Confessionals
podcast has an eyewitness on from the Bellagio reporting shooters at the Bellagio during
the Vegas massacre. Here's this eyewitness testimony.
First of all, I think what needs to be said is that there were, from my perspective and
what I know, there were multiple events that occurred around Las Vegas, up and down the
Strip that night. It wasn't just centralized at Mandalay, as it has sort of been put forward
in all the stories that people are hearing. If I were to say one statement about everything
I'm about to talk about, it's my wife and I, we were in Vegas celebrating our 10th year
anniversary. And on October 1st, we were involved in an incident with an active shooter at the
Bellagio. And there's no mistake in my mind about that. This is something that happened
and we were there. So we were leaving. We had just seen the Soleil show at the Bellagio
there. It closed just after, I believe about 11 o'clock, just outside of 11, maybe about
11, 10 local time. And we were walking through the casino. My wife stopped off to use the
washroom and then we decided we were going to continue through the lobby of the Bellagio.
There's the beautiful ceiling, the flowers sculpture that's on the ceiling. And then
they've got the, they've got like a conservatory, like a gardens on the other side of the lobby
there. So we crossed through the lobby under the famous flower sculpture and we entered
the conservatory. And at that point, you know, people were standing around, they were, they
were, everybody had like cocktails in hand. They were kind of just hanging out. It was
a very kind of jovial atmosphere at that point. You know, a big show had just let out. A lot
of the audience had come out and sort of followed the same path. So people had just, they had
a wonderful night. My wife and I included. And so we were taking photos in the conservatory
and all of a sudden there was just like this crescendo of screams that started behind us
in the lobby. And you could just hear screams. That's the first thing I heard were these
screams. And then I heard somebody yell, uh, there's a shooter, there's a shooter. And
then I heard distinctly like five or six pops, like pop, pop, pop, pop, like, like unmistakably
gunfire.
Unmistakably. It wasn't, wasn't flip flops on the floor. It wasn't, you know, the fountains
outside it was, it was, these were from right outside of that lobby area.
Because this is so key. This is not the only eyewitness testimony to report this. And you
can listen to the audio on the police scanners that concur what this eyewitness is saying.
So you have to ask yourself, why isn't this being addressed in any of the press conferences?
Why, why aren't questions being asked about this? None of the nitwit reporters that get
into these press conferences are asking these questions.
No, about this, nothing, nothing from the FBI, nothing from the sheriff's department,
at least putting our fears at rest saying, Hey, there were shooters, but they weren't
involved in the bigger attack. So again, why does this just get ignored back to the confessionals
podcast?
Very distinct. I mean, I, I, I haven't, I haven't been close enough to a gunshot previously
to be able to conclusively say a hundred percent that was, that was gunfire. But in my mind,
that's what, that's what a gun sounds like from everything I've heard on, you know, television
and in the movies and things of that nature.
That's, that's, that's a gunshot. Those were gunshots. So, uh, so, so that, that happened
and that was about 1120 when we heard the shots and the screams and people yelling.
And then as I said, somebody yelling, uh, that, that there was a shooter. So I, I reached
back because there were at that point, you could just hear the screams and see hundreds
of people coming towards us through, through the, through the conservatory, through the
lobby there. You could just see them coming. So I reached back, I grabbed onto my wife's
hand and uh, you know, we, we just started moving.
At that point we didn't know what was happening. It was the unknown factor. Like who, was there
a team of people coming towards us? Was there one guy? What, like what, what was the, what
was the actual event that had occurred? Like what, who was shooting and where were they
coming from? So we just started running. We just started going along with, with everyone
else. And I mean, I tell you, there's, there's nothing, there's no scarier moment that I've
experienced in my life because I thought at that point I was like, this is like, this
is it. Like, how, how are we going to get out of this? Like, this is, this is the end.
Like we are gonna, we are gonna die here tonight.
So again, that's an eyewitness from the Mandalay Bay on the confessionals podcast. Now pull
up that story. The crew had this story pulled up while we were listening. If you're a YouTube
viewer or a viewer at info wars.com/show, no evidence of second shooter in Las Vegas
attack, Sheriff says. Now, have you ever seen an investigation conflict itself on so many
different occasions?
I'd have to check the timeline, but the sheriff specifically said in more or less words that
he doesn't believe the shooter acted alone. And he says, it's hard to believe this man
could have acted alone. We're still looking into possible accomplices. He's specifically
referencing the point that there was so much ammunition, so many firearms brought up to
the hotel room that he had to have an accomplice.
But then he says no evidence of a second shooter, even though we've got all the video evidence
that you could possibly need.
It's falling apart, nobody's buying it. And that's the biggest thing about this. Nobody's
buying the narrative, nobody's buying the official story. And any news media outlet
that's just going along with it is clearly fake news. We'll be right back with more of
the Alex Jones show, don't go anywhere.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Info Wars biome defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at InfoWarsLife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public.
So please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the Info War.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emrix Essentials. We are proud to bring
you a collection of organic based household products at InfoWarsStore.com, including non-nano
SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, date free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint mouthwash,
unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo, and long lasting natural deodorant. Emrix Essentials
is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body. We carefully select pure and simple
ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic. Our mission is to
offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life. Truly feel the difference
by going organic natural without compromising on quality. Feel good about using Emrix Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit
InfoWarsStore.com and learn more about the new Emrix Essentials line of organic products.
That's InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
With our help, President Trump is exercising the globalist demon out of our republic. And
as you look at the news everyday that emerges, you see the theme. Not the theme the globalists
are pushing, but the theme that the citizens are realizing collectively together. Citizens
of planet Earth. Just look at Drudge Report. Look at these headlines. Consumer sentiment
hits 13 year high. Stocks set new records. And then right below it, McCain to thwart
tax cuts that would bring more money into the treasury and help pay down the national
debt. You cut taxes, more money comes in. You just gotta keep spending the same. And
Trump's been cutting spending in many areas. But Congress has been thwarting him there
as well. But he then used the nuclear option that Dr. Corsi's been hammering here for months
to just defund it. Don't let him raid Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. So the good news is Trump
is killing the looting of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Precisely. And this was, Senator Corker was at the hearing and he was the one I constantly
targeted as wanting to give the mortgage market over to the banks. Banks that he's made millions
of dollars in loans with Bank of America, Wells Fargo. Corker was about to be tied.
He offered, he said, we'll give you $10 billion more capital to keep running Fannie and Freddie.
And Mel Watts said, no, we don't need it. And Mel Watt knew that as long as they were
taking federal money, they couldn't recapitalize Fannie and Freddie for the shareholder.
>> Let me ask you this, cuz they're clearly not just looting it. Why do the Democrats
wanna bankrupt it? I mean, Obama made no secret of that.
>> Well, because it was free cash. I mean, they had over $266 billion. They were up against
the wall. The House of Representatives had refused to fund the insurance subsidies under
Obamacare. Obamacare was gonna crash in the first year.
>> That's right, so it's multi-faceted, they propped up Obamacare with it. But also, just
like the Federal Reserve under Obama, doesn't want cheap loans to the public, only cheap
loans to big banks. So this is all part of making people poor, picking winners and losers.
>> Yes, and it's also part of the scheme that the Obama administration had, that they were
gonna let Fannie and Freddie fail.
They're gonna take all the capital out of them. So by the end of this year, they would
have zero capital in Fannie and Freddie. And then they were gonna give the mortgage market
over to the big banks and the hedge funds and in Wall Street, which would mean that
we would become a nation of renters.
>> The Treasury Department, I revealed the documents, we published them. It shook the
very base of Washington. When these documents were published, the Treasury under Geithner
and under the Obama administration wanted to end the American dream of us being homeowners.
We're all gonna become renters, gonna become a nation of renters.
>> Jones is fear-mongering about global government and all these unstoppable elites. I wasn't
saying they were unstoppable, I was saying they were weak, because they were authoritarian
and were operating by stealth. And as soon as you took the stealth away, they were wide
open.
And that's why all the King's horses and all the King's men and all the fake Hollywood
people and all the M&Ms and all the little media twerps that have been propped up. They
may be able to get some 12 and 13-year-old snot-nosed folks to actually watch them, or
a few old people that still think it's trendy.
>> Hey, daddy-o, Mackey, no, homie, wow, you saw that M&M? He really took Trump to the
woodshed, yeah, yeah, that's why his approval rating's up.
>> Badness in the world today, I see it in court every day. I sentenced Boyce Young to
the news of the gas chamber, didn't wanna do it. The most important decision you can
make right now is what do you stand for, Danny?
>> Badness. >> Badness. I wanna be good.
>> Good, good, very good. >> Are you my pal?
>> I'm your pal. >> How about a fresca?
>> What they're doing is attempting to dynamite the resurgence of America, an economic operation
to bankrupt this country and bring us into the world corporate government, just like
a third world country's bankrupted and brought in to the IMF or World Bank's orbit.
But the best laid plans of mice and men often go astray, and they're going astray now. Also,
Mark Dice has touched on something really important, and that's the gay mafia in Hollywood.
And that's gonna be the next big shoe to drop. And then when that basement falls in, you'll
find the entire labyrinth of pedophile networks. And then below that, Satan worshippers and
human sacrifice cults.
>> Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWar, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarestore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers. Number
three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listeners have been requesting
this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each
month. Just go to infowarestore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on
auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowareslife.com,
this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowareslife.com. Free shipping
on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship.

The world is a dangerous place, not because of evil, but because of those who look on
and do nothing. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. We now
take you live to the Central Texas Command Center. It's Alex Jones.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show. I'm your host for now, Owen Schroer. We're joined by
Roger Stone at 1.30 and then Jack Posobiec in the fourth hour. Folks, it just keeps getting
better and better. Hillary Clinton fails to turn up for TV and radio appearances with
Philip Schofield, Womens Hour and Graham Norton after falling over and hurting her foot during
London book tour. How about that? Remember when InfoWars told you that Hillary Clinton
was sick and falling over and they called us fake news? Oops, she fell over again. Oh,
there's the famous video of Hillary Clinton. First, she's completely out and they prop
her up against a post. She can't even move under her own power, so they basically toss
her into this medical security van like a sack of potatoes. That's right, there's the
sickly dog Hillary Clinton being tossed into the medical van as all of her security detail
tries to block anyone from seeing that, well, she was basically out cold. Who knows what
happened that day? They tell you that she just had a, what, she was bothered by a flu?
I'm sure it was the flu. Maybe Hillary needs an extra flu shot, folks. How about that?
You think Hillary Clinton takes a flu shot? Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
failed to appear for your interviews today. What happened? Former presidential hopeful
is in Britain promoting her book. What happened? Womens Hour host said star guest was delayed
but then never turned up. Philip Shofield revealed she had stood this morning up after
hurting her foot. Oh boy, who buys that? Tell me one person that buys that this is because
of a foot. Now maybe she like had a brain aneurysm and fell and hurt her foot. Graham
Norton BBC interview was also put on hold after accident in central London and then
here it is, it just gets richer and richer. Clinton last night dined at a restaurant with
Huma Abedin. Folks, the Democrats are riddled with sexual predators. So you have Hillary
Clinton, apparently the candidate for women, married to Bill Clinton, settled multiple
rape cases and while he was president got caught cheating on Hillary Clinton with Monica
Lewinsky, which we'll have news on that in a second. Then you have Huma Abedin who's
married to Anthony Weiner who's going to prison for sending for sexting with a minor. And
that's probably just the tip of the spear with Weiner. And then of course there's Harvey
Weinstein, Weinstein gate, Harvey Weiner gate, Harvey Weiner, Harvey Weinstein gate. But
just back to Hillary Clinton real quick folks because we played Hillary Clinton earlier
looking like a demented demon, an arrogant demon. Julian Assange responds to her lies
against him. So she looked sick already and then she actually gets sick and has to miss
these interviews. But here's the thing, and this is, you're starting to see this with
people like Harvey Weinstein and George Soros and Hillary Clinton and Maxine Waters and
Nancy Pelosi where they're physically manifesting how sick they are mentally. So there's a,
these studies are already out. Mental health and physical health go hand in hand to a certain
extent. That's why people like Hillary Clinton and George Soros and Maxine Waters look like
Emperor Palpatine. Okay? So their mental sickness, their mental depravity is starting to show
itself in their physical appearance. So yeah, Hillary Clinton can go on TV looking like
a demon straight from hell, lie about Julian Assange in her complete arrogance, just cold
hearted arrogance, literally the most cold hearted demon personified. And then what do
you know? Who knows how long it was after that interview. She can't even make her interviews.
She can't even make her what happened book tour interviews, which begs the question,
what happened to Hillary Clinton? She's sick as a dog mentally and physically. I'm sorry.
I shouldn't, I shouldn't slander dogs like that. Okay, but now let's, let's, let's tie
it all together with how sick the Democrat party really is. And I'm not glorifying the
Republican party. It's, it's nice to see we're taking over the Republican party and we'll
probably save it. Senator Kamala Harris quiet on presidential run in Hamptons meeting. So
she goes to the Hamptons, she's hanging out there with all these power brokers. Oh, but
guess who was there? Harvey Weinstein. That's right. Kamala Harris making her bid to be
president looking at big book, looking at the big donors like Harvey Weinstein. Of course,
Kamala Harris has had to come out and say she's going to be donating the money. Harvey
Weinstein gave to her political contributions. She's going to be donating that to charities.
Kamala Harris is falling apart. They thought they had their candidate. They thought Kamala
Harris could do it. And she's just as bad as Hillary colluding with sexual predators
like Harvey Weinstein and trying to slander Trump supporters by making up a criminal charges
against them that got blown up. So Kamala Harris, another failed Democrat, total failure,
total loser, just awful, just the worst. Now here's a nice little ditty. We go back in
time to August 22nd, 1998. President testified to late gifts to Lewinsky. So this is part
of the time where Bill Clinton, you know, he got caught, you know, him and Monica Lewinsky,
you know the story. But you go back and you look into this and you find out that there
was a group of people from Hollywood that were funding. This is from the Washington
Post in 1998 funding. They were funding Bill Clinton's legal defense team right in the
face of Hillary, who's the one that got cheated on. And guess who was part of those donors
to the Bill Clinton defense team? Harvey Weinstein. Imagine my shock that Harvey Weinstein would
donate to the legal defense team of Bill Clinton. I wonder if Harvey's calling up old Bill right
now asking Bill to pay it forward. Bill, hey, remember what happened when you got accused?
How about a little help my way, Bill? Let's go again. This is the sick Hillary Clinton
lying about Julian Assange. And then obviously she's clearly sick in this video, ends up
falling over and hurting her foot just a few days later, I can only assume. And she can't
make her what happened interviews. Here was the last interview of Hillary Clinton looking
like an absolute demon.
Assange has become a kind of nihilistic opportunist who does the bidding of a dictator.
Lots of people, including in Australia, think that Assange is a martyr for free speech and
freedom of information. How would you describe him?
I mean, he's a tool of Russian intelligence. And if he's such a proof of that, you know,
martyr of free speech, why doesn't WikiLeaks ever publish anything coming out of Russia?
Isn't he just doing what journalists do, which is publishing?
Russia doesn't have a Hillary Clinton in its government.
I think for number one, it's stolen information. And number two, if all you did was publish
it, it was leaked. That would be one thing. But there was a concerted operation between
WikiLeaks and Russia and most likely people in the United States to, as I say, weaponize
that information.
People within the DNC. Yeah, weaponize the information. Hey, hey, we've got this whole
group of information, this whole litany of information here. And it's all real. We can't
deny its context and its content. And they're weaponizing it against us. Oh, my gosh. They
found an email talking about how we like to have children in the pool for your pleasure.
And they're weaponizing it against us. Can you believe this?
Oh, but don't worry, folks. They're freaking out. Government lawyers asked judge to block
release of Comey memos. Comey is lying through his teeth. Comey and the FBI were clearly
colluding with Loretta Lynch and the Clintons in the tarmac meeting. And they're trying
to hide the truth on that. And they're not getting away with that either. It's all coming
out. These people are the swamp. This is the scum. This is the corrupt government. Hillary
Clinton is at the top.
And James Comey was colluding with all of them. That's why Trump fired him. And Comey
perjured himself. But don't worry, we're going to get those memos. We're going to get
the Awan information. They're all going down.
KD Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market.
And we've succeeded. With the release of our CQB technology, we now offer the most comfortable
concealable rifle threat body armor available. Things may look good now. But what if you
need added protection? Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor and active shooter kits
for $129.90 delivered. Check out the promotion sales tab at kdarmor.com. C-A-D-I armor dot
com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey Purified
Water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. For
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. Goberkey.com.
Hunters, anglers, campers, and survivalists. Get back to nature. Expand your horizons with
the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and sling bows on the market at
slingbow.com. Slingbow products are compact and models start from just $17.98. They're
perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved
ones the excitement and tradition of slingbow. A new frontier in archery and truly modern
twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
This is Dan Pillard. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX.
That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpillard.com.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion. Visit Infowarslife.com to secure your canister. We have worked for
years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great
tasting multivitamin formula available. Vitamin Mineral Fusion Drink Mix at Infowarslife.com
is loaded with a full month's supply of essential vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your
body absolutely needs. In the history of Infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products
like Survival Shield X2, Super Metal Vitality, and so many others. With its unique delivery
system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects, this formula
is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products. And this part is most important.
The ingredients in Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest
quality lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure. And rest secured, you're
fighting the tip of the spear in the Infowars. That's Infowarslife.com and Vitamin Mineral
Fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of Southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans. We have
now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend. Discover and
try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at Infowarslife.com. This coffee gives
you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other
coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee. And it's taken us years
to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today, order
a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original
or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press, all the
while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at Infowarslife.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on, or you're mine.
Welcome back to The Alex Jones Show. We all remember when we lost our mind, right? We
all remember when we took the first red pill. And most of us ended up at Infowars.com, and
now Infowars has expanded to 10 hours of live broadcasts every day, and that's because of
your support at Infowarsstore.com, so we pay it forward by bringing you great specials.
I've already talked about some of the specials today, but there's more, like 50% off Caveman.
We've now got a strawberry flavor Caveman, in addition to the original chocolate flavor
Caveman, the true paleo bone broth formula. Bone broth in there, chaga mushroom, bee pollen,
things that you probably aren't getting in your regular diet, and it's all in the chocolate
or strawberry Caveman true paleo bone broth formula. But now, it's 50% off. That's 50%
off right now at Infowarsstore.com. This is a very popular product, and we're giving it
to you 50% off. This is a great protein supplement as well, not just the bone broth, but also
packed with protein. We're still running the Secret 12 special, 40% off Infowars Secret
12. That's a B12 supplement, an all-natural proprietary B12 formula. It's good for energy.
It's good for all of the great products that are inside of it, including the Methicobalamin
and the B12 that's just so important. And it's a 40% off discount right now. 4.8 star
review at Infowarsstore.com. 40% off Secret 12. And another 50% off special, the entire
line of Emmerich's Essentials. That's an entire line of products, 50% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
We try to fight back against the toxins in our environment and in the products by giving
you products that don't have the toxins in them. You've got the Outdoor Pack with the
sunscreen and the bug spray, two things that typically come riddled with toxins, especially
the bug spray. And then you've got the entire line of the Starter Pack, 50% off right now.
That includes the mouthwash, the shampoo, and the body wash. And then you've got the
deodorant on there as well. And all of those products, 50% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
As well as essential oils. A lot of people are really into essential oils. We've got
a whole line of essential oils, the Emmerich's Essentials, right now at Infowarsstore.com.
That entire product line, 50% off. Get to Infowarsstore.com. Take advantage of all these
great products. Get rid of the toxic products in your house and fill your pantry, your cupboard,
your closet with good products that aren't going to poison you and put toxins in your
body. Infowarsstore.com. Great specials running right now. Be sure to take advantage.
Okay, so the Democrats are absolutely collapsing. Hillary Clinton is literally collapsing, literally
falling over herself, missing interviews. This is something that dates back to even
her presidential campaign. Can you imagine if she was president? This wicker woman who
can literally collapse at any moment. I mean, who knows the real state of her health? I
mean, she could be one tick away from midnight, if you know what I'm saying.
So she falls over again and misses her What's Happened book tour. You know, Tom Fitton is
doing great work over at Judicial Watch right now. He's pressuring the FBI to hand over
the Comey memos, hand over all the information they have on Awan, who was working for the
Democrats. What's that? From Pakistan? Yes, you heard me right. Imran Awan, who did IT
work for the Democrats from Pakistan. Yeah, there's JudicialWatch.com. Judicial Watch
forces FBI to admit to new Clinton, Lynch, Tarmac documents. Well, I mean, if they were
just talking about their grandkids, they've got nothing to hide. So I'm sure they'll release
all of those documents to Judicial Watch and they won't fight that tooth and nail because
Lynch and Clinton have nothing to hide. They were just talking about grandkids. Yeah, right.
Okay, so, but here's what they're doing to try to cover their tail because they're an
absolute collapsing mess. I mean, seriously, folks, they are a structure fire. So they're
trying to take all of the energy and momentum from the Harvey Weinstein gate and try to
project that back onto Trump. It's going to fail miserably. It doesn't even matter what
comes out. It doesn't matter what tapes that I think they're going to release. I do think
they're going to release some other tapes. Won't matter. Will not matter. But here is
the woman, Summer Zervos, coming out again. Now, over a decade, she's been trying to do
this with nothing, no ground to stand on. But here she is on CNN again talking about
Trump touching her inappropriately. >> I was standing in the entryway.
>> Exactly what we reported they would do, by the way.
>> And I saw Mr. Trump's clothes on the bed. I did not see him, but he greeted me with
a hello in a sing-song voice. It sounded like, hello. I thought the mistake had been
made, and Mr. Trump thought he was speaking to someone he was more familiar with. I walked
further into the living room, away from the bedroom, and sat down.
I waited for about 15 minutes until Mr. Trump emerged. He had his suit on. I stood up-
>> Thought his suit was on the bed, and now he's wearing it?
>> And he came to me and started kissing me open-mouthed as he was pulling me towards
him. I walked away and I sat down in a chair. He was on a love seat across from me, and
I made an attempt at conversation. He then asked me to sit next to him. I complied. He
then grabbed my shoulder and began kissing me again very aggressively and placed his
hand on my breast.
I pulled back and walked to another part of the room. He then walked up, grabbed my hand,
and walked me into the bedroom.
>> Okay, so that's not gonna help their cause to try to bring Trump down. This isn't gonna
help their cause to try to demonize Trump and lose his support. And no matter what other
tapes or women they try to get to come forward on MSNBC or CNN, it's just not going to work,
folks. And that's the key.
So when they try to bring all this up and they try to bring all this out, the attempt
is to, again, try to trick you into thinking you're losing, trick you into thinking that
Trump's agenda is losing, and just, again, make you feel like you're being defeated.
Even though we're having ultimate victories, Trump is not perfect. The American First Agenda
pushed into the White House by the Republic is what is key, and that's what we're winning
with. So they can try to smear Trump as much as they want, and Trump is not perfect, but
he is the one we put in the White House to represent America, no matter how flawed he
is.
And it doesn't matter. That's what they don't get. It doesn't matter how much they try to
attack his character. It doesn't matter how much they try to skew the lines of reality.
It doesn't matter how much they try to psyop this country into thinking that it's dead,
into thinking that the liberal establishment is in full control, and if you're not a social
justice, virtue-signaling liberal, then you're just trash, you're scum.
No, the beyond-reproach liberal mindset is failing. The beyond-reproach liberal smugness
is what has turned America off of all of these people in Hollywood, on late-night television,
in politics, who sit here all day telling you how they want to help this, do that, push
for this, and then look at every city, look at every demographic where Democrats are in
charge. Totally failing. California, completely in debt. Illinois, can't pay its bills, okay?
These people have lost, folks. But keep trying, you know what, keep trying to make Trump the
enemy, and you're just going to keep building him up. That's how sick people are of you,
CNN.
>> It's a no-brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses, and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original and most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now
GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-BERKEY
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-BERKEY.
>> Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come
up with a better way. The bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt
as ammunition. Non-toxic and no batteries required. $39.95 plus shipping and handling.
Use discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase at bugassault.com. Fire your
fly swatter and get your bug assault today.
>> Not a group. You developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
>> Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the
most. I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages
in my system. But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything
that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
>> Tell us about all those things. There's so many things that are in it.
>> You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood. I
recommend doing the parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
>> All right, well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, Infowarslife.com. And folks, you can't lose.
It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period. And you support the broadcast, Infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group from the Global Healing Center. Thank you so much for all your work,
sir, on this great product.
>> Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor?
>> That's right.
>> Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rites freeze dryers. Go to Infowarsstore.com
to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use. And
let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy
products, desserts, and entire meals.
>> Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
>> And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison. Harvest Rite
freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf
life of up to 25 years. Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest
Rite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at Infowarsstore.com.
>> Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride-free products. Infowars
Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try
our bubble gum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride-free
mouthwash and supercharge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing
fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other
beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue
fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients, xylitol, nano silver, and iodine. Notice the difference with our
super blue fluoride-free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health
routine at Infowarsstore.com. That's Infowarsstore.com.
>> You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

>> Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
>> Welcome back to The Alex Jones Show. Filling in for Alex is Owen Schroer and we're actually
going to hear from Alex in the next segment on an update on new details in the Vegas Massacre
cover-up. We'll be hearing from Alex in the next segment. Before we get to that, though,
I want to talk about a victory that we're having. And it's not a victory in the sense
that we want the NFL to fail or I want to see the NFL become obsolete. I'd love to see
the NFL be pro-America. I'd love to see the NFL embrace America, you know, be proud of
the flag. Instead, Roger Goodell has done the opposite and decided he's not going to
make players stand. That's how it looked like he was going to say that. Then he kind of
retracted because the players started threatening. So now they've decided what they're going
to do is they're just not going to air the national anthem on TV and they're not going
to talk about it during their broadcast. So they're doing their little canoodling with
the TV networks to try to avoid those images getting out. But we still hear about it. They're
still kneeling. They're still in the protest. And so all their ratings are down. But let's
just look. This all started with Colin Kaepernick. And who is Colin Kaepernick? Well, Colin Kaepernick
was a system quarterback that succeeded for about a year and a half because he was in
a system that was built for him. He was never really a prolific passer and he always was
kind of known to struggle to throw some passes. But he did get a huge contract. I mean, he's
so oppressed. Look at him with his new car and his his mansion there. I mean, he's clearly
oppressed. So it's got to be tough for Colin Kaepernick. But there's a lot of misinformation
about Kaepernick. So he gets this massive contract, one hundred and twenty six million
dollars. It was a record contract at the time. He only received about a third of that. I'm
not sure what the final total was, but here's the key. He quit. He walked away. He had another
year on his deal that he would have made millions and millions of dollars. He's so oppressed.
Colin Kaepernick is so oppressed that he walked away from tens of millions of dollars. You
understand. Do you understand how hard it is to be worth so much money that you can
walk away from millions of dollars? That's Colin Kaepernick. So he quits. He leaves the
NFL. He chooses to leave. Then the left, the political left and the liberal media is outraged
that the NFL is boycotting him. No, he quit. He left. Now he wants to come back and he's
demanding 10 mil per year and he wants to start. Kaepernick, you sucked. Colin Kaepernick's
last year in the NFL was record setting suckness. His rating, his numbers, terrible, but he
wants, he thinks he's worth 10 mil a year. The NFL has a salary cap, dude. So now what?
He quits. He blames the league even though he quit and he's worth tens of millions of
dollars. Then he demands more money than he's worth. Now he's suing the NFL owners for collusion.
This is one of the weirdest things. So he's not getting enough publicity. He's not getting
enough publicity. Now he's going to sue the NFL owners for collusion. This is not going
to go well for him. Colin Kaepernick has hired celebrity lawyer Mark Garagos to sue NFL owners
for colluding against hiring him. Again, Kaepernick quit. He quit. He walked away from millions
of dollars and now he's upset because nobody else wants him. Folks, it's been a long thing
in the NFL. You don't want distractions on your team. Remember Tim Tebow? Why don't you
think people signed Tim Tebow? Because he was such a media storm. Nobody talks about
that. But, but, but this is the, but here's the thing. The NFL is totally collapsing.
Okay. Colin Kaepernick support is dwindling. NFL ratings are dwindling. NFL attendance
is dwindling. And it all started because Kaepernick wanted to protest the national anthem. Yeah.
Okay. You can say it was against police. You can say it was against that, but optics become
the story. You're kneeling during the national anthem. That's never going to win. But the
NFL is starting to collapse at the seams. Folks, angry Jets fans convinced NFL is rigged
after a controversial call in a game yesterday. And this is, this, again, it's just, this
is how, this is how badly the NFL is collapsing right now. The, the refs actually got the
call, right? But now the fans are saying it's rigged because they think I don't know. Kidding.
The NFL is rigged. Oh my gosh. No one's been telling you that. Brian Toohey hasn't written
multiple books on that. Brian Toohey didn't get access to the FBI documents about how
the NFL's games have been rigged before. Oops, sorry. It looks like the NFL is in a heap
of trouble. Week six of the NFL reveals several nearly empty stadiums as fans continue to
leave the league. So the victory isn't that the NFL is collapsing or that maybe we're
seeing the end of the NFL. That's not the victory. I like watching football. If America
would be patriotic like they used to be, you know, this wouldn't be such an issue. They're
the ones that have decided to go liberal. They're the ones that have decided to go foaming
at the mouth leftist. They're the ones that have decided to suit themselves in the foot
because they think that that narrative wins. They think that that is the side of victory,
even though it's the side of absolute collapse and misery right now. So the victory is that
we're bigger than the NFL. The NFL is going to have to accept that and realize that. And
this is a message to all the other organizations that thought they were bigger than America.
All the other individuals that thought they were bigger than America. You're not OK. You're
not. At the end of the day, you're a football player. And once you protest America, you're
going to find out real quick that we like America more than we like football. There's
some of the images from the stadiums. These are stadiums that are normally packed, folks.
But it's trickling down. Georgia cheerleaders to protest anthem in stadium tunnel. Now,
this is where the liberal smugness comes into play. This is a group of cheerleaders from
Kennesaw State University. In Georgia, saying they will kneel until the U.S. flag represents
what it should. What does that even mean? Doesn't offer an idea of what she thinks it
stands for or what she thinks it should stand for. Just wants to hop on the bandwagon and
protest America. They really are showing their true colors. They really are showing how anti-American
they are to protest the national anthem. Amazing. It's amazing that this is how far we've come.
Is it really, though? Is it really when you hear about a story like this? This is from
the college fix ahead of Halloween. Universities nationwide tell students not tell students
what not to wear. So Alex has been telling you about this for a while. It's just gotten
more extreme now. We are a culture, not a costume. Who are these people? Who are these
people that are so indoctrinated into identity politics that they can't even enjoy Halloween?
It's it's it's it's insane. So then they go off and they tell you what you can't wear
on Halloween. It's all because of cultural appropriation. Unacceptable costumes are wearing
Native American headdresses, dressing up as Mexican by wearing a sombrero, dressing
as a guy, Isha or any form of blackface. I don't know about blackface, but Native Americans,
you know, Indians or whatever, and Mexicans are always some of the most popular costumes.
You know, you walk around as Mexican, you're handing out tequila, you're having a good
time. Everybody loves you. I remember I they're going to use this against me. I dressed up
as an Indian one year and it was it was one of the most popular costumes ever. I ever
did. I went full character. The character was bear claw. Everybody loved it. Nobody
got offended. Oh, my gosh. But now at Liberal University, is he dressed as a Mexican? Oh,
my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Is that is that girl wearing a Native American headdress? Somebody
call somebody call the Social Justice Workshop. Somebody call the Diversity Alliance. These
are the names of these groups. These are the names of these groups. So now you have diversity
heads, cultural appropriation heads, things that shouldn't exist at a university of higher
education. So higher education is now becoming daycare. We're going to hear from Alex Jones
on the other side and update on the Las Vegas massacre cover up. Don't go anywhere.
Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostagard. It's time to start
assisting the body and regulating proper prostate balance. InfoWars Life has set out to bring
you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there, but formulas that you can
use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts
recommend. The Prostagard formula does just that with its mixture of plant based nutrients
and antioxidants that help give your body total support. It's a hand selected blend
of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper. Prostagard
is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day. And from our research,
it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their
body going at optimal levels. Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostagard on your side today exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Thousands of years ago there was a basic form of chivalry. Our ancestors would hear the
drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense.
60 years ago when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums
of their own, air raid sirens. But in the 21st century, there are silent weapons for
quiet war. Pathogens added to the food and water, to the lining of plastics that destroy
our vitality, turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death. I personally counter
this onslaught with Anthroplex. Anthroplex is designed with known organic concentrated
herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
Discover why Anthroplex is turning so many heads today. It's time for us to take our
bodies back into our own hands and it starts at InfoWarsLife.com with Anthroplex.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes
to America, it will come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white man! You're a white man!
Welcome to The War Room, the latest expansion in InfoWars Live Broadcasting. We are live
weekdays from 3 to 6 p.m. Central at InfoWars.com/show and this YouTube channel right here that you've
landed on. Please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications. You can follow
us on Twitter @WarRoomShow. We are going to have the most powerful guest, the most powerful
host. We'll be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls. The liberal
establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long. The silent majority is no longer
silent. This is The War Room.

Refresh your breath with Emerix Essentials Organic Mouthwash. Our formula is made from
organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while
adding a pleasant refreshing taste. Emerix Essentials Mouthwash is non-GMO, certified
organic, made without alcohol, chemicals, or other artificial ingredients such as flavors,
fragrances, or dyes. The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated, containing antibacterial
properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath. This antiseptic mouthwash
is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Emerix Essentials Mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine. It is effective
yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores. Go organic today with Emerix
Essentials. Visit Infowarsstore.com to learn more. That's Infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, you're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
The war was lost, the treaty signed. I was not caught, I crossed the line. I was not caught,
though many tried, I live among you.
And a couple of these items I will read from the narrative because I don't want my comments
to be construed or changed. So I wanted to ensure the accuracy of that. But most of this
conference will be done strictly through my narrative provided to you. Okay?
Okay, first and foremost, I want to give you an update on the injuries.
Okay.
Ladies and gentlemen, we know there is a cover-up taking place in Las Vegas, Nevada, concerning
the tragic massacre of October 1st, 2017 that left 59 people dead and hundreds of others
wounded. We know that there were multiple shooters from all of our military experts
and the acoustic evidence, but also witnesses on the ground who were up to a mile away and
witnessed active shooters as well. And now we have the sheriff changing his story on
the timeline over and over and over again. And when they do change the timeline, it's
to line it up with what hotel witnesses saw, what security witnesses saw.
But then you add to all of that, the fact that we have hostage rescue team and FBI sources
that told us day one that Paddock and his girlfriend were traveling to the Middle East
and that there was antifab and Islamic literature in the hotel room at Mandalay, where the main
shooting reportedly came from. The news is lying. FBI HRT did the hit on the guy and
they found antifa information in the room and photos of the woman in the Middle East.
So he did not kill himself. The FBI hostage rescue team killed him because he was firing
on them. So he did not want to be taken alive. And reportedly he did it. And it was anti
for crap everywhere. We're not denying that most of the shooting came from there.
But in the first two and a half minutes, it's coming from multiple positions around downtown
Vegas. And you can hear it in congruent, unedited videotapes where taxi cab drivers are sitting
in the same spot and you hear the shots far off in the distance.
Then you hear shots at Mandalay right above the drivers. And then we've got footage from
a mile away close to where it happened. And you hear the same cadence, two different firearms,
one that is a full auto smaller firearm, another that is clearly a light machine gun belt fed.
The experts, including federal law enforcement and former high level Navy SEALs, have come
on this broadcast who testify in federal court on acoustics and have testified that it is
completely clear what's going on.
Craig Sawyer, a former leader with Silting Six, who hosts major shows on Discovery Channel,
has broken it down. But the biggest evidence yet is blaring out in plain view. And that's
the sheriff himself, Joe Lombardo.
The night it happened, he was cool, collected and focused. Then a few days later, he gives
us the first clues that match up with our sources and the witnesses that there's no
way he acted alone, even though the FBI was saying he had to act alone. And there's no
way he could just be doing all this on his own.
And that clearly, he probably was radicalized and they were looking into that. Now the story
completely changes. And when we look at the FBI agent who's the chief agent in charge
there, he is a Mueller, Comey, globalist minion involved along with Mueller and Comey suppressing
investigations of Islamists and others. And that's the big issue here.
ISIS, even the AP reported, almost always takes credit for things they've done, not
things they haven't done. Even if it's someone inspired by them, if they didn't get a communication
from them, they won't take the credit. They took credit day one for this and have continued
to take credit. But within hours of the tragic event, before the bodies were even cold, the
FBI came out and said no Islamic connection, no ISIS connection, and only one shooter.
>> As this event unfolds, we have determined to this point, no connection with an international
terrorist group.
As this investigation continues, we will continue to work with our partners to ensure that this
is factually, thoroughly, and absolutely investigated to be able to bring comfort and
peace back to this community. Thank you.
>> How could they know that before the investigation had even been performed? And finally, the
body language of Sheriff Lombardo. There is almost no one on Infowars.com or Newswars.com
or on YouTube.
We're talking, we're getting 97, 98% votes on these videos. Even our detractors who normally
disagree with us are saying, absolutely, there's multiple guns. And that sheriff is acting
completely and totally freaked out, running scared, deer in the headlights, stammering,
looking down.
We've gone back to previous press conferences. He didn't act like this. And you've got that
FBI agent that our federal sources have told us is bad news, in charge, standing behind
him, rouse, glaring and glaring and glaring. We don't know the full story. And we don't
have all the answers.
But when we question things and the questions we point out turn out to be valid, and our
sources give us info that turns out to be accurate, and then we still get criticized
by MSNBC. It's because they have to admit they don't know what's going on. Here's the
headline, Las Vegas Sheriff and Emotional Press Conference admits he's still searching
for answers, but tells you everything you've got to know.
There's no collusion between us and the FBI. There's no conspiracy theory here. Conspiracy
theory? When all the acoustic evidence and the eyewitnesses and the security people,
you name it, are telling us the same thing. And now eyewitnesses that weren't even harmed,
that are young, that are 29 years old, are dying, and 34 years old, are suddenly dying
of natural causes. And on top of it, we've got the security guard who reported he was
shot at down the hallway six minutes before all this happened.
He's disappeared. And then we've got witnesses at Mandalay and at other casinos as well,
all concurring and lining up with the police scanner audio that there was shooting going
on at the Bellagio as well. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the cover up that is unraveling the
power structure. And the reason it's happening is they did this in 2017. And by they did
this, ISIS, the evidence showed, carried out the attack.
For whatever reason, the government doesn't want you to know what's going on. You've got
stay-behind networks inside the FBI, known for blocking real investigations over and
over again of other events, trying to block Trump's agenda as well, and trying to work
against him in the Justice Department to overthrow the president and the recovery of our republic.
So we have a group with a history of cover-ups. We have evidence of a cover-up. And we have
a sheriff that is acting completely and totally scared and discredited. And he's changing
the story over and over again. Ladies and gentlemen, InfoWars.com and our crew and you,
the listeners, our human intelligence on the ground, have been proven incredibly accurate
yet again, asking questions and finding answers.
But we need to stay focused on this case because this could unravel the entire criminal networks
of the shadow government that have been pulling off capers like this and covering up capers
like this for a long, long time. We know there's a cover-up. Now we've got to find out exactly
what they're covering up. And the evidence is overwhelming. It's a concerted ISIS attack
that for whatever reason, they've decided to lie to the public about. And now it's blowing
up in their face. I'm Alex Jones. And if you're watching this transmission, you are the resistance.
>> In the early throes of this tragedy, I had advised each and every one of you that
items of information were gonna change. The dynamics of this investigation is far-reaching.
It's wide. And the name as part of the registration had changed on the 28th to include Mary Lou
Danley. So that was the confusion associated with that.
No matter what the perception is, whether we were being non-transparent or we were attempting
to be subversive, it's false. It's important that you continue to listen to me. 959 is
important. It wasn't inaccurate when I provided to you. The circumstances associated with
it is inaccurate. Everybody understand that? No question, sir. There is no conspiracy between
the FBI, between LVMPD and the MGM.
Nobody is attempting to hide anything, reference this investigation. So at this point, I wanna
thank the community. I wanna thank you for letting me be your sheriff and Vegas strong.
>> If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
>> We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own
four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through
mother nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made
in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated
with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war. It is a classical 360 win. This
is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year. And now we believe
we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly
get. You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of
this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as
you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next
level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be. Thanks to your support and your
prayers, together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield
and Infowarslive.com.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Infowars Biome Defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your Biome Defense in ultra strength or regular strength at Infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first run to the public
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the InfoWar.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
In a time where everything is politicized, the Vegas Massacre cover-up has actually broke
that paradigm and Alex mentioned that in the last video how people that are "liberals"
or detractors of Infowars, people that don't usually like our reporting, have seen our
reporting on the Vegas Massacre on the cover-up and are completely aligned with us, in complete
agreement with us and are willing to put all the partisan stuff behind where they might
disagree because it's so important we don't let them get away with these cover-ups.
We don't let them get away with whatever type of event they had planned for whatever reason.
They'll never tell us the truth and you just heard a report from Alex Jones breaking it
all down. Now here's a report from Alex Jones, a special report on the collapse of the Hollywood
establishment.
It's not that the American flag is perfect. It's not that they haven't used it to launch
wars that are wrong. It's not that we don't get sometimes, it can be a little cheesy,
until you realize there's a widow there that lost her son or a father there that lost his
daughter or a sister there that lost her brother and then you realize that all we have is these
old institutions and they're not perfect but what the globalists are pushing, oh, we know
it's real bad. It's not based on people. It's not based on strength. It's based on lies.
It's based on fraud. They want to override everything not to make it better, but to make
it worse.
America was the override. The Renaissance was the override, true human empowerment, bring
down the royals, bring down the elites, free market ideas, total open society. Soros calls
his group that because he's fighting open society. It's like Rose McGowan put out Weinstein
write me. Twitter suspends her account. It's the woman, it's the feminist, it's the, but
at that point, see, you don't protect her because what you claim you're promoting and
what you're doing is the opposite.
See, that's the joke. It's like the old Dragnet TV show. They made a movie about it in the
80s with Tom Hanks and Aykroyd.
>> Good evening, Peggy. >> Dragnet.
>> And you got the Playboy owner and he just having a good time. He's not a bad guy. He's
not a good guy. He's just kind of a seedy twit.
>> You have to admire their techniques in crowd control.
>> But it's the preacher. Preacher selling drugs, devil worshipping and killing people.
>> And what's Hollywood telling you there? They're throwing it in your face. And you
imagine the prism that it is to be somebody like Harvey Weinstein's wife.
Who to make her clothing line successful, she has to marry this guy who she doesn't
love, who he doesn't love. So that she can bully other stars to make them wear her clothes.
And then she feels powerful by doing that. See, somebody that isn't a psychopath goes
that's really stupid. And that's why they run our lives. And then I look at these people
that are wedded to what they're wedded to and it's like, who wants to be Quentin Tarantino?
He's not a good director. He's just a degenerate and super deformed and ugly.
So they like him because he likes to defile people. He's acting dumb. He doesn't know
about the Weinstein stuff. Give me a break, you little thug. And he just was looking at
me and hating me so much and pointing at me and talking crap about me.
Because the guy is a deformed demon. I mean, I'm sad for deformed people, but he's a deformed,
ugly, stupid, warped person that a demon uses like a pen to write pulp fiction.
He's a tool. He's a tool bag. And he sees somebody like me who just is a normal person,
a farmer. And he hates me and he wants to destroy me.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure
deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones,
which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield X2 and bio true selenium at Infowarslife.com.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones show. I want to open up the phone lines to your comments.
You can comment on the Vegas masker cover up. You can comment on the newest line of attacks against President Trump.
You can comment on the failing ratings and attendance of the NFL, the collapse of Hollywood.
All that is on the table. 1-877-789-ALEX. 1-877-789-ALEX.
And again, they're not going to get away with this Vegas cover up. It'll be interesting to see, though,
what happens down the line. Can they just sweep this under the rug and have America forget about it?
Or will we continue to hound this thing until we see some action?
Real quick, let's hit some news before we get to the phone lines.
Dow Industrials dalliance with 23000 is a sign of the stock market's velocity.
So there's a little bit of a timeline on this Market Watch article that you can see how the stock market has ratcheted up since President Trump.
Well, since he was elected, not even before he was and not even after he was inaugurated, but since he was elected, it's had a huge boost.
Now other people there's other narratives out there is this good, is this bad?
Regardless, the fact is the stock market continues to hit record highs seemingly every week.
It was like every day for a while. Now it's like every week it just continues to grow.
Leaflets calling for Trump's death rain down on Seoul and South Korean drills begin.
So there's the pamphlet that I'm assuming yet North Korea drops on Seoul.
So North Korean propaganda there, if you do the wrong thing with it, they'll torture you to death.
So what does that mean for the current geopolitical structure with North Korea, especially when you have Rex Tillerson say.
He's pledging diplomacy with North Korea until first bomb drops.
Well, that's awfully overshadowing.
As if they know a bomb is going to drop.
So.
Trump is doing something different with our foreign relations than Obama.
And if everything hits the fan, they'll blame Trump.
But really, these seeds were planted by Obama.
Trump's trying to make it right. Who knows if there's a peaceful solution to any of this.
Now, Trump is decertifying the Iran. He's decertified the Iran deal.
Put it back in the hands of Congress to do something about it, making Congress go to work on Obamacare.
After he removed some of the illegal subsidies from that, he's now decertified the Iran deal.
So Congress has a bunch of work to do with Obamacare and with the Iran deal.
And they're all pulling their hair out because they're ticked that Trump is making them work.
They can't believe that President Trump isn't being a dictator, isn't being a pen in hand in chief president like Obama was.
They don't want to do work. They don't want this put on their desk.
They'd rather have the president do everything so they can remain blameless.
Trump's not going to have it that way. He's making Congress go to work.
And if they want to be the ones perpetuating these bad deals, they will be the ones that have to face the music.
Not Trump, who had nothing to do with Obamacare. Not Trump, who had nothing to do with the Iran deal.
Now, the decertification of the Iran deal has all of the anti-Israel crowd in a tizzy.
Trump only answers to Israel. This is a totally Israel first deal.
Well, OK, would you rather be close with Israel or would you rather be close with Iran?
Is this just Trump ratcheting back the Obama era policy that was very anti-Israel?
So, to no one's shock, here's Netanyahu praising Trump's decision on the Iran deal.
Netanyahu, he joins us from Jerusalem. It's good to be with you, Mr. Prime Minister.
Why do you think what the president has done is going to lead to a better situation?
Well, I'm focused on the result, and I think that right now the deal as it stands guarantees that Iran will have not a single nuclear bomb,
but an entire nuclear arsenal within 10 years.
And I think the president was very courageous in saying, "I'm not going to kick this can down the road.
I'm not going to say, 'Well, it's going to be on somebody else's watch.'
I'm going to stop this from happening because, remember, we cannot allow Iran, the world's foremost terrorist regime,
that hangs gays, kills protesters, jails journalists, and foments aggression throughout the region and the world,
we cannot allow this rogue regime, 30 times the size of North Korea's economy, to have a nuclear arsenal.
It's a very brave decision, and I think it's the right decision for the world.
So there you go. There is Netanyahu talking about Trump's decision on the Iran deal.
What was the amount of cash that Obama gave Iran? Can you guys pull that up?
Straight cash, homie? Obama to Iran? I mean, what the heck is that?
It's just too bad. I mean, Trump is having to clean up all of this Obama trash.
Look at that. 1.7 billion payment to Iran was all in cash.
Okay. 1.7 billion to Iran from Obama.
Okay. So Trump is having to clear up all of this trash left behind by Obama, and the media blames Trump
because he's doing what he has to do to clean up the mess left by Obama.
And it's just... Trump is Obama's legacy in that Obama was so far to the left that Trump is now so far to the right
as a reaction to the allergy that was liberalism in the White House.
So it's going to seem pretty extreme.
Let's start on some of these phone calls. Guys, can you blow that up a little bit?
It looks like first is that Josh in Colorado. Go ahead, Josh.
Hey, Owen. You're doing some great work. Happy to see you on InfoWars.
First thing I wanted to bring up was I saw this video about a strange-looking SWAT team in the Tropicana.
Yeah, I've seen that.
And they're like, "You have? Okay. Well, I haven't heard anybody talk about it."
Oh, sure. We've talked about it.
It's weird that they're pointing guns at people, telling everybody to put their hands up.
Yeah, we've got that video in the archive. If you guys want to roll that as B-roll, again, for other listeners that aren't familiar with this.
A SWAT team going through the Tropicana, guns drawn, pointing at people.
There's two people behind them that they have a strange, some sort of communication with.
There's a walkie-talkie there and a strange sack.
There's a guy in the middle of this group with a stretcher that doesn't really make much sense, and they're pointing their guns at people.
Yeah, nobody's talking about this. I don't know. I don't even know what to think about this.
Some people obviously have made their conspiracy theories on this one.
I just simply don't know what to think. It's very strange.
Yeah, it's very strange. And if you look at the Google Earth layout of where all this happened, the Tropicana is right behind where the event was.
And the other thing that I think is really interesting...
Which a lot of eyewitnesses are saying shots came from behind the stage. So it's key that you mention that. Yeah.
And the other thing that I'm not sure a lot of people have noticed is the Jordan Maxwell kind of thing.
They did it right in front of a black pyramid with the capstone cut off and the lights shooting right out the top.
Oh, yeah. No, no, no, no.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm crazy when I mention human sacrifice happening in front of a pyramid.
I mean, let's be very clear. That has no historical context.
Human sacrifice has never happened at the foot of pyramids in Egypt, in South America, anywhere.
It's never happened. You're just a conspiracy theorist.
How dare you even bring up history at a Harvest Festival? How dare you?
Well, and he was on the 32nd floor. And it was the Route 91 Festival.
There's some weird symbols on there. Harvest Festival.
Yeah, and every room that he rented where he was allegedly going to do these mass shootings were facing the direction of Mecca.
Again, just weird. I mean, what am I supposed to do? I have to report on it.
Thank you for the call, Josh. Let's go to Amy in New Jersey on Hollywood.
Go ahead, Amy. You've got a short, short time here.
I hope I could be fast enough.
You know, I'm a parent and this whole Hollywood thing should be a wake up call for parents.
Like I have a nine year old. You know, I'm very aware.
I would never let her go to these places to audition to star in a show if I was not there monitoring every move every adult that was around her was doing.
This should be really a wake up call to people that have kids that want to get into acting.
You're exactly that's exactly what Corey Feldman said. Watch out if you send your kids there.
Great call from Amy. Hollywood's collapsing. Don't go anywhere. Alex Jones show. We'll be right back.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Hear how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305. That's 866-295-5305.
Or order online HBextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or HBextract.com.
In an emergency you need a fire. Now. But what if the wood is wet? No problem for Instafire.
Our non-toxic fire starter packs lights wet wood, floats and can even burn on water or in any weather.
Sustains winds up to 30 miles per hour and each pouch weighs only 1.75 ounces.
Need an emergency or camp stove? Get the Instafire Inferno Stove that boils 20 ounces of water in under 3 minutes with controllable heat and temps from 425 to 1500 degrees.
Free shipping. Go to Instafire.com and use discount code Radio30 up to 3 times for 30% off your order.
Instafire. Fire it an instant.
Dr. Carolyn Dean wants you to have a free chapter of her new book, The Magnesium Miracle 2nd Edition.
And it's available at MagMiracle.com.
In your free chapter Dr. Carolyn Dean explains how magnesium is essential to support the structure and function and overall health of your body.
Your free chapter is your guide to learn how to support your heart, bone, metabolic, lung and mental health with this powerful mineral.
The Magnesium Miracle 2nd Edition is available on Amazon.
But right now get a free chapter at MagMiracle.com. Spelled M-A-G-Miracle.com.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrix Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used.
And we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
Emrix Essentials wants you to enjoy the scent and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrix Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit Infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
As most of you already know, I am a voracious consumer of news and information.
And in the last 4 or 5 years doing more and more research, I came across the fact that the elite establishment is fully aware of the fact
that our ancient ancestors in many cases had much better nutrition than we do today.
And our ancient ancestors sought out the bones of the animals that they were hunting, killing and then processing.
And so I set out to develop Caveman.
But to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken, but 7 other superfood ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time.
Infowars isn't just fighting the globalists.
We're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the complete media assault and winning because of your support.
Caveman is back in stock. People absolutely love it.
So please secure your Caveman today at Infowarslife.com or by calling toll free, triple A 253-3139.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

One last dance for the globalists as everything they're doing is burning in a structure fire.
The collapse of Hollywood, the collapse of mainstream news, the collapse of cover-ups that they try to do when they run things like the Vegas massacre.
The collapse of all the anti-American establishment is burning to the ground right now.
And this is their final dance.
And sometimes it's darkest right before the dawn.
But we will be victorious, folks.
They'll throw everything they can against the wall. They'll throw everything they can against President Trump.
And they're going to continue to lose the hearts and minds of American people and people all over the world.
Let's go back out to the phone lines.
Let's go to Joe calling in from Canada. Go ahead, Joe.
Hi. Are you hearing me?
I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Do you hear me?
Yes.
Okay. So about the Las Vegas shooting, I'm under the impression that it's way deeper than we might see it.
Not exactly an attack on the conservatives, but first on the Second Amendment and the First Amendment.
And at the same time, sorry, I lost my track of thought.
Well, they're showing their true colors here when you see them all coming out saying, "Oh, if conservatives won't even act after kids get shot and after their own people get shot, they'll never act.
We need unilateral action against guns. We need to repeal the Second Amendment. They'll never learn, no matter how many of them we kill."
Oh, that's my point. I think it's deeper than that. They are using that foul flag because obviously that's what it is, considering all the cover-ups and all the inconsistencies.
I think it's deeper than that. It's not an attack on the conservatives. It's an attack on America, okay?
And that's where we shouldn't fall on the trap because we already know that they want to start violent events on November 4th.
And I think that they want to ignite something, but they want to ignite some genuine conservative radicals.
Yeah, there's no doubt they want to start a civil war. They want to fracture this nation, fracture its people in order to conquer it, bring it down, bring in a police state, start a bunch of violence.
And it's completely failed. I mean, that's the thing about this.
I guarantee you they thought that they could pull off so much crap because of this Vegas massacre coming after the Second Amendment, coming after people that doubt the narrative.
And it totally blew up in their face because everyone doubts the narrative and nobody is going for the "more gun legislation" as the answer. It's totally failed.
Thank you so much for the call, Joe. Let's move on to John in Wisconsin. Go ahead, John.
Yeah, how are you doing, Owen?
Good.
Yeah, hey, listen, none of the mainstream radio talk shows, even the conservative ones, are even mentioning anything about the shooting right now.
I completely disagree. I'm a pretty voracious consumer of media, especially talk radio. Rush Limbaugh has kind of ignored it. He's mentioned the inconsistencies, but for the most part ignored it.
Michael Savage has been all over it for whatever time Hannity actually covers stuff on his talk show and doesn't plug stuff.
He's kind of mentioned how there's nothing really adding up here in talking to eyewitnesses.
But what do you expect on most of these other shows that are totally either controlled by corporate media or they're too afraid of their own shadow to say something that might get them kicked off the air?
Well, all the ones in my area filter all the callers, for sure.
And you're calling in from Wisconsin? Is that the local terrestrial radio where you listen?
Yeah, I listen to some talk shows, AM talk shows in Milwaukee and one in Chicago.
Well, this is why people listen to Alex Jones. I mean, this is why Alex Jones' audience continues to grow when other people won't talk about these subjects.
This is why InfoWars continues to grow. And that's why people go to InfoWarsStore.com because they want to see more of our media, more of us attacking what's really going on and searching for truth and not just going along with official narratives.
I got one huge question for you, though. Brendan Tatum was on Alex Jones' show and your show for about three hours totally on the sixth of this month.
Yeah, he's going to be back on The War Room with me this week.
Well, yeah, well, you ought to ask him why he retired because according to, he made an appearance on, was it the Tucker Carlson show on the 10th?
And he played a clip and he talked a little bit and I can't remember why he was even brought on the show, but as far as I know, that's the only mainstream TV that he's been on.
And he mentioned that he retired on the ninth. What's up with that?
I don't know. I'll have to talk to him about that. I'm not familiar exactly with what you're talking about, but I'll be talking to him this week. Thank you for the call, John.
Let's move on to Alyssa in Oregon. Go ahead, Alyssa. You want to talk about the allegations against Trump?
Yeah, thanks, Owen. I was just remembering back when I first started listening to Alex Jones, this was around this time last year.
This was shortly before the whole Trump tape thing came out. Alex Jones did one of those videos where he's broadcasting from his house. And he talked about receiving a dossier from someone inside the DNC about how they were going to use these so-called victims to try and accuse Donald Trump of sexual assault,
which was actually one of the main reasons why I didn't believe any of the stuff that came out in the mainstream. It's because Alex warned us about this ahead of time. It was like maybe a week or so before all of this broke.
Yeah, we had some experts that were coming on telling us that. I know Roger Stone's going to be joining us in the next segment. Larry Nichols may have been reporting on that, too. I can't even remember all the people that came on and were warning us about this.
So I think that Alex Jones should rehash that and just really expose how this is all just a big DNC operation and just blow their narrative completely out of the water. That was a very powerful broadcast, and I hope Alex can kind of drudge that up somewhere and show it again to his audience who may have missed it.
Well, there's no doubt that the sources that come to Infowars come to us because they know nobody else wants to run with it, and we're not afraid to run with it. But these are standard tactics for the Democrat Party.
The Democrat Party has been totally exposed via WikiLeaks and via Project Veritas. I mean, this is a joke. Oh, my gosh. You sit here and you just think about it. Look at all the stuff that Project Veritas has exposed from CNN, from the New York Times, from the DNC. I mean, this is a joke.
There's the video she's talking about, leaked, Democrats plan to pin rape hoax on Trump. This is from October 9, 2016. Alex Jones breaks down the latest salvo in this rusing. Pull that back up, guys. In the rusing, call the patriots everywhere.
So here's the video. Leaked, Democrats plan to pin rape hoax on Trump. That's what the caller was talking about. We saw this from the beginning. Oh, what do you know? Infowars.com, tomorrow's news today. Infowars.com, next week's news today. Infowars.com, next month's news today. Infowars.com, next year's news today. Infowars.com, next decade's news today. We'll be right back with Roger Stone. Don't go anywhere.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with detergents? Are you happy paying high prices? Find your happiness with Pure Soap. These all-natural, earth-friendly Pure Soaps are the very best you've ever used. Buy in bulk. Get a 12, 36, or 48-month supply. Or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now. Earth-friendly and natural soaps. Your family deserves the best. Happiness is 5starsoap.com. Why not put your money up the drain for a change? See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Cal Bend Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated. Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils. See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com. That's 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind Super Blue Fluoride-Free products. InfoWars Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the Super Blue Fluoride-Free mouthwash and supercharge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing fluoride, our Super Blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super Blue Fluoride-Free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano-silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our Super Blue Fluoride-Free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfoWarsStore.com. That's InfoWarsStore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWars Life. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout. Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Vitamin Mineral Fusion. Visit InfoWarsLife.com to secure your chemistry. We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available. Vitamin Mineral Fusion drink mix at InfoWarsLife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of InfoWarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, Super Mel Vitality and so many others. With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects, this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products. And this part is most important.
The ingredients in Vitamin Mineral Fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means it's clean. That means it's pure. And rest secured, you're fighting the tip of the spear in the InfoWars. That's InfoWarsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Well, Alex Jones was right on the money on this. He predicted several times that the left would try to recycle the sexual assault smear against the president. Let's remember that last year when Lisa Bloom, who is the daughter of Gloria Allred, also an attorney, most recently the attorney, oddly enough, for Harvey Weinstein, until that burden got so great that she resigned.
She represented a woman making claims against Trump. The woman promised her appearance at a press conference. She was a no show. And this Clinton black op collapsed.
And at the beginning, I think Bill and Hillary understood that they had enormous vulnerability on this issue because of Bill's serial assaults of numerous women raping, biting, sexually attacking, exposing himself, demanding oral sex, that they had to create a phony counter narrative.
I think Soros and the big boys have figured out that Bill and Hillary are not really the ones to carry this message against Trump because, of course, they have no credibility whatsoever on the question of violence against women or sexual assaults.
What's amazing is that this new charge, recycled from a woman named Summer Zegos, I believe it is, there's no legal cause of action in California. There is no lawsuit that would hold up anywhere.
This is a new recycled public relations attack on the president trying to use, as you put it, Owen, the fact that the Weinstein issue has raised public awareness and consciousness of the sexual harassment and assault issue. Now let's try to gum Trump up in it if we can.
Yeah, it's not going to work. We were already ahead of this. We're going to get out ahead of it again. But again, I think that the key that you just mentioned is where is their legal case here? It's non-existent.
Well, and Hillary's ridiculous claim that the charges against her husband have all been litigated. No, actually only one has, and that ended up in a settlement of $850,000 paid to Paula Jones to make that suit go away.
There's never been justice for Juanita Broderick. There's never been justice for Kathleen Willey. There has never been justice for numerous other women who were brutally assaulted by Bill Clinton and then, most importantly, threatened, bullied, intimidated with the most brutal tactics by Hillary Clinton at the direction of Hillary Clinton.
And how do we know this, Owen? Well, it's in David Brock's book, The Education of Hillary Rodham, where even he confirms that it's Hillary who hires the heavy-handed private detectives and the nasty lawyers to threaten Bill's various victims.
And of course, let's not forget about the forgotten son of Bill Clinton, Danny Williams. Roger, I suspect that they've obviously been grooming for this. They've been planning for this. I suspect that they have another tape or more tapes or something else that they're going to try to use for shock value to try to add some fuel to the non-existent fire here or the small flame.
I just don't think it's going to land. I don't think that America's buying it anymore. The mainstream media's already spent their wad, especially with their support of Hillary Clinton, ignoring all of her crimes. If they really think that this is going to work, they've got the wrong idea here because it doesn't matter to me, Roger. It doesn't matter what tapes. It's kind of like what Trump said. He could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue and he would still have his support. I think that that's going to be the case no matter what they try to draw forth.
You know, I didn't think that comment is a distortion. What Trump was referring to when he said that was that he had such little support right there in liberal Manhattan where he lives. His country, his support was in the heartland. Therefore, you can shoot in any direction and you wouldn't lose any votes.
I think that was not a reference to cruelty or violence. It was about the makeup of New York City, which is now, I think, down to 18 percent registered Republicans in the entire city of New York, which is extraordinary.
I think that this new initiative may be sons of the Clintons. I think Soros and those who were disappointed in the way David Brock bungled this black op last time. I have inside sources who tell me that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.

whisper_full: failed to generate timestamp token - using fallback strategy


whisper_full: failed to generate timestamp token - using fallback strategy

I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.

whisper_full: failed to generate timestamp token - using fallback strategy


whisper_full: failed to generate timestamp token - using fallback strategy

I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish. I think that this was a Clinton operation start to finish.
Yeah, let's not forget also Michael Moore who was the leader of the Women's March praised Harvey Weinstein in the past. Ashley Judd gets up on the stage and says "I'm a nasty woman." Well apparently not as nasty as Harvey because she's one of the ones that came out against Harvey Weinstein.
And what's amazing is that this was evidently common knowledge inside the, you know, the vaunted halls of Hollywood in New York. I never liked Harvey Weinstein but I, not traveling in those circles, were unaware of these allegations. But evidently a number of major media vehicles, mainstream media vehicles were well aware of them and it took a long time for this story to finally make it to the...
Seth MacFarlane joked about it, 30 Rock joked about it. We'll be right back with more of Roger Stone. This is the Alex Jones Show.
As most of you already know, I am a voracious consumer of news and information. And in the last four or five years doing more and more research, I came across the fact that the elite establishment is fully aware of the fact that our ancient ancestors in many cases had much better nutrition than we do today.
And our ancient ancestors sought out the bones of the animals that they were hunting, killing and then processing. And so I set out to develop Caveman. But to not just have concentrated bone broth from chicken but seven other superfood ingredients known for cleansing and supercharging the body at the same time.
Infowars isn't just fighting the globalists, we're getting results and we're expanding in the face of the complete media assault and winning because of your support.
Caveman is back in stock, people absolutely love it. So please secure your Caveman today at Infowarslife.com or by calling toll free, triple A, 253-3139.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at Infowarslife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
So if you want to buy the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at Infowarslife.com.
Dr. Grip, you developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most. I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all those things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood. I recommend doing the parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today. It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, Infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose. It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period. And you support the broadcast. Infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Grip from the Global Healing Center. Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emerix Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at Infowarsstore.com, including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, date-free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo, and long-lasting natural deodorant.
Emerix Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA Made With Organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emerix Essentials. Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit Infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new Emerix Essentials line of organic products.
That's Infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Brain Force Plus is 50% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
If you've never tried Brain Force, an excellent nutraceutical, try it now for 50% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
This is one of our most highly rated popular products on the website.
Over 5,000 reviews, 4.6 stars is where it stands.
This is very impressive. Brain Force, 50% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
Try this natural focus booster. Give it a shot. No crash, no jitters, just clean focus.
That's Brain Force Plus, 50% off right now at Infowarsstore.com.
Look at some of these other specials we've got. How about 40% off Survival Shield X2?
This is a product that's really good for fighting against some of the toxins in your body like the fluoride or radioactive particles.
You've got these stories in Europe where they've got radioactive particles. They don't know where they came from.
If that ever happened here, you'd want something to fight back against it.
Before the shelves run dry, we've got the special right now, 40% off Survival Shield X2.
This is even higher rated than Brain Force.
Oh my goodness, 4.9 star review, over 5,700 reviews, folks. That's basically a perfect review.
You basically have a 100% positive feedback on Survival Shield X2 and we still bring it to you at 40% off.
This is a necessity for me. I never am without Survival Shield X2, whether I'm on the road, at home, at work.
This is the X1 bottle. It's perhaps my favorite product as far as its absolute power.
Survival Shield X2, 40% off right now at Infowarstore.com.
Check out all the specials at Infowarstore.com. 50% off Caveman, 50% off Emmerich's Essentials.
The list goes on and on.
We now go back to Roger Stone. Roger, we accurately predicted what they would try to do against Trump.
It's not going to work for them. Take a moment, take a break from your corncob and break it down for the audience.
Well, I must say, Owen, first of all, we'll be on at 5 o'clock Eastern today, 4 o'clock Central time on The War Room
to further break down this attempted smear at President Donald Trump resurrecting discredited charges from over a year ago,
which involves both the lawyer Gloria Allred and her lawyer daughter Lisa Bloom.
It's the same conspiracy, slightly different faces.
But I must tell you, this would be impossible without Brain Force.
This is a product I highly recommend. I was up late last night writing.
I have to write at night because the phone is ringing off the hook during the day.
And then I was honored to be on with David Knight this morning, on with you now, on in a little while in The War Room.
It's unthinkable without Brain Force. This product, which is all natural, really helps me get mental clarity, focus and a certain,
I don't know, mental creative energy to help synthesize everything we're trying to communicate here at InfoWars.
So I joined the chorus and at this kind of deep discount now is the time. 50 percent off, I believe. Terrific price.
You know, we we are trying to analyze where this is going.
My guess is the entire sexual assault meme is now going to be recycled by the left is an attempt to soften him up for what is undeniably still coming from Robert Mueller.
It's an attempted coup d'etat based on cooked up charges that could be obstruction of justice in the Comey matter, could be some other fraudulent claim.
The left cannot get over the election of Donald Trump. They cannot get over the sea change he's trying to bring us.
His Supreme Court nomination successful is cutting and slashing of regulations, causing the uptick in job creation, a record stock market withdrawing us from the ridiculous nine billion dollar price tag of the Paris Climate Accords, moving us out of NAFTA.
And then lastly, making it very clear that he's not going to let the Iranians defraud us in the Iranian arms deal, which they are Iranian nuclear deal, I should say, which is, you know, expensive fraud upon the people.
Well, the amazing thing is. They were so obsessed over the Russia thing, they thought that the Russia thing was their big thing.
They were going to ride to the impeachment. They were going to ride the Russia collusion all the way to Trump's impeachment. They were going to ride the Russia collusion all the way to get Trump out of office.
Totally failed. So now they're trying to rehash these other allegations against Trump because the Russia thing is just totally failed.
Now, do you suspect, though, that they're going to try to let this Russia thing ride off into the sunset?
I know that they keep reporting on it. Or do you think they're going to come back full force with the Russia thing again?
Well, the problem is that they don't have anything. And I was Senator Richard Burr, who is hardly a Trump supporter, admitted the other day in a press conference that they still have no hard evidence of collusion or coordination or conspiracy between the Trump camp and anyone associated with Trump and the Russian state.
Yet, Congressman Adam Schiff writes in the Washington Post in an op-ed piece that we shouldn't be so close to closing this investigation.
It's costing billions and it's provided nothing. Zero. Bupkis. Nada.
There is the narrow question of whether the Russians sought to interfere in our election.
Well, Boris and Ivan have to tell their boss they're doing something, even if buying some poorly written and ineffective Facebook ads turns out to be it.
There's no evidence that the Trump campaign provided targeting or knew about, coordinated any of those efforts. That is a bogus charge without foundation that you'll find on Twitter and Facebook, but not in reality.
So they got Facebook. Admitting like, OK, we had some Russians buy some ads here or there, but if there's this huge thing about Russia trying to rig our elections, you know, meddling in our society, why isn't Facebook, you know, coming down?
Why does Facebook just get off scout free if this is such a big deal? They're the ones colluding, apparently. So it's amazing how Facebook is just like, oh, yeah, we did it. But but nothing against us, though.
Yeah, no, Zuckerberg took the money. If he was so disturbed about this effort, why did he take the money?
These ads appear to me to be ineffective, poorly written. I can't even understand if they were wisely targeted based on the scanty information that's come forward.
I never saw him before, but I never saw them during the campaign. But again, I think there's a real distinction, at least on the House Intelligence Committee.
The Republicans seem to me to be committed to trying to determine whether there was conspiracy coordination or or collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian state.
And the Democrats seem to be interested in playing gotcha and trying to dig up something that is simply not there. There is no proof of collusion. That's why I call it the Russian collusion delusion.
And I don't see anybody as phony as these new charges against the president of sexual assault. They're manufactured. Somebody is paying for them.
The women last year, I believe they were paid as well to bear false witness against the president.
The same people that are foisting these allegations into the mainstream are people like David Brock and Media Matters and all of his super PACs. And then again, you look right at him, you look squarely at David Brock and you say, wow, you ought to be audited. You look like you're running a money laundering scheme.
I was reading an extraordinary report the other night on the war room where Andrew Kerr came on and laid out extensive complaints from the Citizens Audit Organization against Brock's money making scheme.
And he said, if I were George Soros, I would want my money back. This guy has been so notably in as unsuccessful and ineffective, despite the fact that he has ground through or burned through millions and millions of dollars, not without putting a few shekels in his own pocket, of course.
In his own pocket and all of his partner's pocket. They just funnel this money back and forth between all of David Brock's super PACs and foundations. And then they get a little hit back every time. This is something Andrew Kerr has been working on for over a year now.
He's really been doing great investigative reporting into that. I'd love to see the IRS investigate that. But this is the same IRS that got caught targeting conservatives and they got away with it, Roger. I wish that the Justice Department would step up somewhere.
>> We're going to be on the war room later today. Final words as you depart our audience.
>> Yeah, I think it's very important people understand and are prepared to refute this sexual assault smear on the president. We're going to break it down for you on the war room. Don't miss it.
>> I'm not just I'm not to get back to this to make a joke. It's just so ridiculous how you've got these allegations against President Trump with with no real groundwork, no real legal case.
>> And then we have videos of Michael Michelle Obama literally with something flopping around in her private areas. I'm not saying it is or isn't anything. I'm just saying we've got the video and we get nothing on that. And there's nothing wrong. Hey, if you want to do that and do whatever and be Michael Obama, then that's perfectly fine or Michelle Michael Obama or Mooch, whatever you want to call her.
>> But no, the president's bad, even though he's the one cleaning up the Obama mess, trying to make America first again. Roger Stone will be on the war room later today. We're going to be joined by Jack Posobiec in the fourth hour. Don't go anywhere.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products. InfoWars Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubble gum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super blue fluoride free mouthwash and supercharge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfoWarsStore.com. That's InfoWarsStore.com.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWar. A 360 win. Number one, when you choose AutoShip before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at InfoWarsStore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip because we hold back a surplus for AutoShip customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month. Just go to InfoWarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new AutoShip feature at InfoWarsLife.com, this is a sure win. 10% off on AutoShip. Win, win, win at InfoWarsLife.com. Free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

I'm going to have a little fun talking about Mooch Michael Obama's codpiece, but then you're reminded how sick and twisted it really is, folks.
"Satanic-looking drag queen with horns reads to little kids at Michelle Obama Public Library in Long Beach." This is beyond twisted, this is beyond weird, this is beyond sick. This is quite literally a satanic ritual.
There's the picture of "Zoochie Moochie," a transsexual that read to children at Michelle Obama's library today.
Now, most of our audience is on the radio, so basically this transsexual, I guess, man-turned-woman, I really don't know, it's "Zhee," what are we supposed to call these people so we don't go to jail? "Zhee?"
"Zhee" is wearing a dress and some fine jewelry, it looks like a cape or gown or something, some crazy red hair, but the strange part here, the whole thing is strange, the strangest part is caked on makeup on the face to look demonic, and then five horns coming out of the head.
So a literal headdress with horns, caked on with makeup, transsexual crossdresser is reading to children at the Michelle Obama library in Long Beach, California.
"Zoochie Moochie," now, here's the flyer, "LGBTQ History Month at Michelle Obama Neighborhood Library." Why do you think Michelle Obama's having this at her library, folks? It's transsexual.
Okay, that's a man. Or it was a man. No, it is a man. Michael Obama. So, Michael Obama, now Michelle Obama, hosts LGBTQ History Month at her library because that's the community that her and her husband are a part of, there's nothing wrong with that.
If Barack and Michelle are in that community, that's perfectly fine, I have no problem with that. But to bring this, they even call it, look at this, "Drag Queen Story Hour Featuring Zoochie Moochie."
"Zoochie Moochie," where do you find Zoochie Moochie? Zoochie Moochie, the drag queen who dressed as a demon, posted the same photo to his, her, her, his Instagram account and commented on Twitter about the event.
The bio reads, "Attention Earthlings, this is Zoochie Moochie, your resident killer clown from outer space. I dress up in drag and love tacos."
Okay, Zoochie Moochie tweeted, "I got to read to the children today and it was one of the best experiences I've been given as a," what, killer clown? And then someone tweets, "Viva La Ames," I think I follow her on Twitter.
"Yeah, that wouldn't give kids nightmares," Zoochie Moochie responds, "You should have been there. The excitement in the children's eyes was everything." And then a kissy face.
Church of Satan, hail Satan. That's nice.
Omar Navarro, he's running against Maxine Waters in California, tweets out, "In response to the Zoochie Moochie demon, what are we teaching kids in school? Demonic teachings alive in Long Beach. I'm outraged they would allow this."
Well, yeah, I mean, anybody left with a brain would be outraged they allow this. Pull up Zoochie Moochie's Twitter real quick, guys. Or pull up Michelle Obama's codpiece. Either one. It really doesn't matter. This is all you need to know.
Okay, Michelle Obama hosting the LGBTQ day because she's part of that community as a transsexual and then has a cross-dressing demon speak to kids at her library. Why do you have a cross-dressing demon speaking to kids? Is that normal?
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Survival Shield Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.

Coming back here live, big fourth hour Alex Jones show here on InfoWars, Jack Posobiec sitting in. We have so much we want to break down. There's so much that I want to get into.
But first things first is that I understand that back at our flagship, see I'm coming out live from Washington D.C. but back at the flagship of the mothership in Austin, Owen Schroer is still there. Owen, you still there buddy?
Yeah, I'm trying to figure out why Michael, excuse me Michelle Obama had a cross dressing demon speak to kids at her library today. I'm a little confused.
Yeah, I'm not sure because see the last time that I came down to Austin you were down in Rio so I wasn't sure if that was something that you brought back with you. You may have summoned that from Carnival and had that demon follow you back into the country.
No, no I was not at Carnival. That is yet to happen down there in Brazil. A little bit of culture for the people.
News?
Well, you know, it's just ridiculous because that's something that they would say, oh look at the crazy rhetoric that comes out of InfoWars. They're claiming a satanic drag queen dressed like a demon is speaking to kids. Like, oh that's just some crazed rhetoric.
No, the Long Beach Public Library, Michelle Obama's library put it on Facebook themselves. So they're proud of this.
Yeah, see I'm not going to lie. When I first saw that I thought, surely this is some kind of Halloween costume kind of thing and it has something to do with that.
And then as I read I said, oh this is being considered as normal. This is considered normalized for children that they should attend and view someone like this in front of our kids.
And again, nobody's saying that it's necessarily illegal or anything like that, but should we be raising our kids with this type of thing being put in their faces every day instead of like, you know, actually just promoting literacy.
I mean, I remember reading like Curious George and, you know, well we can't read that Dr. Seuss anymore, right?
So they took away Dr. Seuss and they've replaced Dr. Seuss with what is, is their name again?
Who's she? Who's she? Who's she?
Let's get this right here. Zuchi Muchi.
Zuchi Muchi. Okay, so.
There she is. He is. Whatever.
Yeah, no more Dr. Seuss, but we've replaced Dr. Seuss with Zuchi Muchi for our children. And this is how kids want to get, they want to get raised in our country.
She only has 866 followers. Oh, that's too bad. That's too bad.
But here again, because I'm a libertarian. I don't care whatever you want to do with yourself, you know, whatever you want to do when you're consenting.
Don't get me wrong. But we have to just ask ourselves the question, why are we having drag queen story hour at the Michelle Obama library?
And then why is she clearly dressing up as a demon and trying to corrupt these, these young children's minds?
Yeah, this is the type of thing that really begs a lot of questions, you know, and it's crazy because people will call Alex and call ourselves conspiracy theorists and every name under the sun for talking about how this stuff goes on.
And I'm going to talk to a guest coming up here at 330 about the Hollywood culture and about how we have been talking about these things for years at this point.
And now when it all comes true, now that we have the power of social media, we can share these pictures and videos breaking as fast as it possible as it happens.
They can't cover it up anymore. They can't cover up the crimes like Harvey Weinstein anymore. And this is one of those things we're saying it's an open secret. Everybody knew about it.
Well, oh, and we've been the ones that have been sounding the bell since for years that this sort of stuff was going on in our country and in our culture because there's a second layer to all this stuff.
And yet we're reporting it. We also want to ask the question. And that's why I love InfoWars is because InfoWars will ask the question, is this the right direction for our society?
Yes, someone needs to at least bring this to the attention of parents that may be sending their kids to the library while this is going on.
I mean, OK, do you want your kids to be sexualized by a drag queen and a transsexual? That depends if you want to follow Michelle Obama or not.
But it's strange. Zuchi, Moochi. And again, it just it's just it lends to everything we've been talking about, how they want to sexualize the children.
They want to bring this demonized culture, like literally satanic culture into the mainstream, have it at public libraries and just pass it off as normal, accepted. This is just the norm now.
Yeah. You look what they do. And you look at how they go after our institutions and our traditions. They go after things like Dr. Seuss.
They go after things like standing up for the American for the American flag and showing patriotism at an NFL games. They go after our sports.
They go after our, you know, our athletics. They look to take down everything that makes America America.
And then you see the type of things that they want to replace it with, the type of stuff that they want to supplant it with.
And they also know that by using something that's so admittedly triggering to a lot of people is that there's going to be discussion about it.
And they're going to come out and say, if anybody says there's something wrong with it, they're going to decry you as transphobic or not being tolerant of alternate lifestyle choices.
When nobody's saying anything like that, what we're saying is, is this really the best sociological decision for raising our children and for teaching kids literacy?
And that's the point of. Oh, right, right. No, no, no. Going to the library isn't about reading. Just look at the new Obama library. There's no books.
So, yeah, it's not about teaching you how to read. It's about teaching you how to be a sexual deviant.
But regardless, I have I have no problem personally with Zucchi Mucci. I don't know of him.
So here's what I'm going to say as Jack Posobiec is about to take over the fourth hour. And I always tell my crew to do this. And I hope they follow through.
Try to get Zucchi Mucci on. I want to interview. Let's get Zucchi Mucci on the show. I want to interview Zucchi Mucci. Let's reach out to Zucchi Mucci.
Try to get Zucchi Mucci on the show. Let's talk to them about whatever, you know, this this this whole drag queen story hour is about.
And let's just get to the bottom of it. So reach out to Zucchi Mucci crew. Somebody reach out. And look, I know that they usually don't respond and don't come on.
I get it. But we can't say we reached out unless we actually do it. So reach out.
It will not be a gotcha interview. No, no, like a combative kind of edited thing. Where are your demonic headdress? I don't care.
And we will we will give you a platform to explain what your what your background is and who you are to to the people.
Well, Jack, you're about to take over some parting stories. I'll leave in your lap.
Austrian vote paves way for nationalist party to enter government. A 31 year old Sebastian Kurz wins in Austria.
So you've had the Brexit, the Catalonian independence, Trump and now a right wing Austrian.
So you see the and the youth angle of that is important. The youth angle of that shows people that this is where the young that people wanted to discount millennials.
They wanted to discount anyone born in the 80s. But when it comes down to it, people realize that, no, we're actually very good at this.
And we're planning on moving aside these old failed political institutions and getting involved.
That's why people like I mean, oh, and you and I are not old guys. Right.
We're we're doing this when when most people our age are, you know, are going out and just like working regular jobs or with a lot of people stuck in college and then grad school and then the next school and then the next school and they never leave campus.
Whereas we're actually getting involved in news, we're getting involved in our community. And that's what this guy over in Austria is doing.
I think that our generation, certainly on people who are not on the globalist side, are going to be much more engaged than we've ever seen before.
And there was always a demonization against the millennials. And I'm speaking for myself here.
But I always felt that just as bad as whatever segment, half whatever portion of millennials were, the other side was that strong.
You know, myself included and other millennials that I speak to, you know, we got Millie, we got a lot of young people that work here, you know, Omar Navarro running against Maxine Waters.
So I think that there's also a lot of good that can come from our generation.
Final story that I'll leave Jack with. AI implants will allow us to control our homes with our thoughts within 20 years.
A government report claims John McNamara, who works at IBM Hursley Innovation Center in Hampshire, submitted evidence to the House of Lords Artificial Intelligence Committee,
which is considering the economic, ethical and social implications of AI.
Yeah, you know, just turn into an AI, you know, put a nice little chip in yourself.
So they're actually talking about putting intelligent chips into your own brain.
Yeah, because your brain isn't good enough, Jack. Come on, you're just a mere human. You evolved from a monkey.
We need the AI chips, right. We need the AI chips. Right. We evolved from monkeys. That's all we are, baser instincts.
And we need the AI chips or else we're not going to be able to. How would we be able to live?
No, no, no, no, no. I figured it out. See, Jack, you you have been awfully intolerant of the LGBTQ History Month at the Michael Obama Neighborhood Library.
You've been very intolerant from the drag queen story hour.
So what we're going to do is we're going to put a little chip in your brain. We're going to fix that intolerance.
Jack, we're going to fix that. We're going to fix that. We're going to fix that.
We don't do the lobotomies anymore, so we'll just put a little chip in you to control your brains.
And when the episodic takes over, I sign off. This is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones Show.
Great guests coming up as well. Don't go anywhere.
You've heard the phrase you are what you eat. Not true. Actually, you are what you can absorb.
So if the vitamins and supplements you now take are not being absorbed, what good are they?
Introducing Protovite, proprietary liquid system that allows premium quality nutrients to positively affect the blood in an astonishing five minutes.
Watch our amazing two minute live blood cell video at TrueHealthFacts.com.
Then call 502-410-3411. Protovite is nutrition you can feel. Protovite is nutrition that gets in.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick, meaty, center cut, presidential bacon. Savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life.
NASA PAC technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon. Or warm and served.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10 year shelf life bacon. Ships free at FullyCookedBacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey Purified Water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
Get incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to GoBerkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. GoBerkey.com.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists. Get back to nature.
Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and sling bows on the market at Slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just $17.98. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of Slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right. Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rites freeze dryers.
Go to Infowarsstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store,
there is no comparison. Harvest Rite freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Rite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at Infowarsstore.com.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America, it'll come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white man! You're a white man!
Welcome to The War Room, the latest expansion in Infowars live broadcasting.
We are live weekdays from 3 to 6 p.m. Central at Infowars.com/show and this YouTube channel right here that you've landed on.
Please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications. You can follow us on Twitter @WarRoomShow.
We are going to have the most powerful guests, the most powerful hosts. We'll be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls.
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long. The silent majority is no longer silent.
This is The War Room.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
Jack Posobiec sitting in. Big, big fourth hour that we've got today.
We're talking just recently about some of the ways that they're going after our children. They're changing the way they're educated.
Public libraries, you have to watch out what's going on in the public libraries now apparently.
I'm a public library, but we're breaking down so much news today and I've got some hard stories I want to talk about.
What's going on in the White House? What's going on here in D.C. where I sit? We're going to have a great guest coming up in about 10 minutes.
But before I do all that, we're doing so much here at Infowars. I want to direct you guys to the Infowars store.
I want to tell you about some of the big products that we have coming up right now.
Especially the Caveman True Paleo chocolate or strawberry. It is so important to have this stuff.
Now myself, I work out quite frequently. I do a lot of weight lifts with the Caveman True Paleo.
When you're using that high intensity training, you're going for those heavy weights, you've got to replenish when you're done those weights.
You've got to replenish. You've got to let that Paleo formula, that protein hit your bloodstream immediately after.
So what I'll do is I'll make up basically a shake right after it. I'll make it up before I start working out so I can take it immediately when I'm done.
Usually within the first 20, 15, 20 minutes. And I'm telling you guys, it really does taste like Ovaltine.
It's just like the commercial says and it's so amazing. The bone broth that goes in it, you can use almond milk.
The reviews have been completely incredible going in with this.
Now another piece is that if you guys, if you're feeling like you're starting to slack off a little bit,
you're having one of those days where you just can't quite keep going with your next thing, you want to turn over, try Brain Force.
When you start to get a little bit more sleepy, when you start to feel a little more tired, I do a lot of reading at night.
I'm doing my reading, I'm doing my research. So much news these days, it's coming out the night before.
So you've got to be ready for early in the morning. That's why I'm reading at night. Pop a Brain Force.
And it is so good because it doesn't leave you feeling jittery. It doesn't make you with like a caffeinated drink or like one of those energy drinks does.
It's now, it's going to be on sale. It's actually just $19.99. It's normally, $19.96, excuse me.
It's normally almost $40, cut down to $19.99. I have no idea. So that's a 50% savings.
I have no idea how long they're going to allow this for. Probably not much longer, but it depends on how stores go.
If it sells, I absolutely implore you guys, try this stuff. You'll feel good.
And by the way, if once you take it, once you're ready to go to sleep, you'll actually be able to fall right asleep as well because it's not going to keep you wired the same way that caffeine would.
And that's why it is so good. It's just an enhancement. It's enhancing what you're doing.
Now, I want to talk about chief of staff of the White House, John Kelly.
So last week on Thursday, Kelly actually made a surprise appearance at the White House at a surprise hearing, went to the podium, went up there himself.
Sarah Sanders was there and then she brought out John Kelly. Now, he doesn't usually appear at these things.
He doesn't usually make his own statements and kind of held his own impromptu briefing.
One of the things that he said was, is, oh, I don't plan on quitting or being fired today.
And he said, I have time, you know, unless anything's changed.
So a lot of people in the media were trying to figure out, well, why is John Kelly talking about this today?
Why did this come up? And then there were some tweets the night before that President Trump had put up saying that fake news is saying that John Kelly is going to be fired.
It couldn't be further from the truth.
And the media was scratching their heads because they said, wait a minute, nobody wrote any articles that we heard about talking about John Kelly leaving the White House.
Well, some people actually went through and combed down through Twitter, through the Internet, and they found that the reason that they didn't read it, find it, was because they weren't reading Jack Posobiec.
And they had written the story that John Kelly, weeks prior to all of this, had actually drafted a letter of resignation that he was going to hand in to the president.
He talked to him about it. He discussed the possibility of resigning.
And then the president, instead of accepting the resignation, he decided to have him on.
He said, please stay longer. I think you're doing a great job. I want you to stay.
And then more importantly, he didn't want to see anyone leaving the White House right now, as there's been a lot of turmoil lately.
So this was the scoop. We've got it up here on the screen.
Kelly resigned a few weeks ago. Trump.
Now, this one, I actually announced that he said that he would accept it, but when the time is right to announce it.
So there's been a lot of reports of mutual frustration that they've had for between one and another.
So this really doesn't come as any surprise.
Now, John Kelly, of course, he's a four-star Marine general.
That is the kind of guy, he's very tight-lipped, he's very buttoned up.
He does a lot by the book. That is the kind of man he is.
And when it comes down to it, he sides more with people that are on the globalist Democrat side.
Those are the people that he's still friends with in the Pentagon.
Those are people that he's still friends with in the Beltway.
Those are the people that he's made a career with.
They're not the type of people that propelled Donald J. Trump to the White House.
They're not the kind of people that worked on the campaign.
They're not the kind of people that understood why it was time for President Trump to win,
because they are the Beltway elite.
Now, this is something that I didn't quite understand as well before,
that the U.S. generals tied in with the Pentagon were going to be so much against this populist wave.
But that's what we're seeing, and we're seeing a lot of pushback between his style,
the President's style, between where he is on other things and where Trump is.
My reporting on John Kelly has been confirmed again and again and again.
I'll put out something, and then someone will confirm it, or he'll come out publicly and state it.
I was the first person to broke the story that he was censoring InfoWars, Reitbart,
and other conservative publications from being handed to the President.
Trump likes to read InfoWars. He likes to read a lot of sources.
He didn't like that because that was giving him information that he didn't want the President to see.
So he shut it down. I was the first person to report that.
Now everyone's reporting it. It's been completely confirmed every single time.
Secondly, I was the one that reported that Kelly was for DACA.
He was for this allowing the Dreamers to stay.
He actually said that he was for it during his time as Secretary of Homeland Security,
and in his hearings he was saying that I think that we should find a way for them to stay,
only that he was against Obama's executive order for DACA.
So when Trump put out those tweets that had everybody really scratching their heads about it,
and saying they were very confused about what was going on, was the President supportive of DACA or not,
it was really John Kelly that was driving that.
H.R. McMaster was a huge part of it as well.
And a lot of people don't understand there is a strong working relationship between,
what's called the Generals, the triumvirate of Generals.
It's Kelly, McMaster, and Mattis who are all working together to push their policies,
rather than the policies that President Trump was campaigning on,
the policies that people brought him together and won the election.
So, Chief of Staff Kelly, General Kelly, I think he's a good man,
but I don't know if he's the right person to stay as Chief of Staff.
If he does want to resign, I would welcome the resignation,
and we should find someone who's more of a Trumpian, and a populist, to replace him.
Let's get him on the show if we can. Let's get him on the show if we can get him here.
So we have a quick break here, then we're going to come back with independent journalist Jacob Wall.
We're going to talk about what's going on in Hollywood.
Is that Jenga stack of House of Cards about to topple over? It looks like it is.
What does it all mean, and what other people are being covered up by Hollywood as we speak?
Are there more Harvey Weinsteins? We'll get to the bottom of this coming up in the next half hour.
Hello, Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother?
Get VirtualShield.com, the world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial.
VirtualShield.com. You have the right to remain private.
North Korea openly threatens the U.S. and launches a new missile every other week.
Their warhead of choice? Electromagnetic pulse.
Such an event would cripple the U.S. power grid for years and leave millions in the dark.
Are you ready? You can be with a Solark EMP-hardened solar generator.
Solark works day in and day out to keep your essentials protected.
You can have peace of mind knowing your power will be there when you most need it.
Visit PortableSolarLLC.com to see EMP testing.
That's PortableSolarLLC.com. Energy insurance for your family.
Refresh your breath with Emerix Essentials Organic Mouthwash.
Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant, refreshing taste.
Emerix Essentials Mouthwash is non-GMO, certified organic, made without alcohol, chemicals, or other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated, containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Emerix Essentials Mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Emerix Essentials. Visit Infowarsstore.com to learn more.
That's Infowarsstore.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the InfoWars.
It is a classical 360 wind.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots have been working on for decades.
We want to show the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers, together we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield and Infowarslife.com.
Thousands of years ago there was a basic form of chivalry.
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense.
Sixty years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums of their own, air raid sirens.
But in the 21st century, there are silent weapons for quiet war.
Pathogens added to the food and water, to the lining of plastics that destroy our vitality, turn off our hormones, and accelerate our journey towards death.
I personally counter this onslaught with Anthroplex.
Anthroplex is designed with known, organic, concentrated herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
Discover why Anthroplex is turning so many heads today.
It's time for us to take our bodies back into our own hands, and it starts at Infowarslife.com with Anthroplex.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
We are coming back. We're going to have a great guest coming up this hour.
We're going to talk a lot about what's going on in Hollywood, but I would be remiss if I didn't mention one story today that's very close to myself, very close to my heart in many ways, and not in a good way.
The fact that Bo Bergdahl has pled guilty today to desertion.
Now, a lot of people don't understand my background and the fact that I served at Guantanamo Bay when I was with the Navy, Navy Intelligence.
And the four people, the terrorists, Taliban generals that Barack Obama turned over for Bo Bergdahl, let me tell you something about these people.
They are genocidal war criminals.
And many, if not all of them, I am sure, will absolutely be reengaging in this fight to commit more war crimes, more genocide in Afghanistan.
These are the people that would literally go through and wipe out entire towns of people in Afghanistan because they weren't the right tribe or they didn't worship Islam the right way, like the Sunni-Shia divide, right?
This is the type of people that Barack Obama set free to get back a deserter when he was told that this person was a deserter.
And that's why Chuck Hagel was let go as Secretary of Defense, but it still didn't matter because it happened and we freed these absolutely horrific people to inflict more crimes on humanity.
So when people bring up Barack Obama, and I think it's hilarious too that when people are saying Donald Trump isn't qualified to be president,
and then they'll turn around and say that Barack Obama was this great, amazing president or something, it absolutely boggles my mind.
But it also boggles the mind that the same people would say things like that about a guy, Barack Obama, and a candidate, Hillary Clinton, that were so in bed with Harvey Weinstein, pardon my phrase.
And the guest that I want to bring on is going to talk a lot about that, is going to talk a lot about the collusion between Hollywood and the Democrat Party, the Democrat financial establishment.
And we're bringing on Jacob Wall of Offended America, and he is someone who's actually seen a lot of this up close and unfortunately personal.
So Jacob, what can you tell us about this story?
Well Jack, first of all, it's great to be here.
And one thing that's important that people understand about this is that once in a while, every couple of years, Hollywood will sort of usher one of these guys out and kind of let them go.
A couple of years ago it was Charlie Sheen. They do it when the people are not making money for Hollywood anymore.
If you remember, Charlie Sheen was kind of out there on a crack binge.
And frankly, Charlie Sheen was engaged in debauchery, but everybody was of age, everybody was consenting, there were people involved, but they basically ran him out of town.
But he wasn't producing anymore, he wasn't filling the seats, he wasn't getting the ratings, he wasn't playing along with what they wanted, so they saw it as an opportunity to get rid of him.
That's exactly right. And they don't get rid of people that are engaging in bona fide pedophilia usually.
Now Harvey Weinstein's case is pretty bad for something that they'll usually let go, but I'll tell you why that is.
All of the Hollywood studios have been losing money, they've been going out of business, and basically they've been receiving cash infusions from the Chinese, from the communist Chinese, through companies that are basically owned by the Chinese government.
The Dalian Wanda group comes to mind. Many of these massive, basically cash pools, private equity type vehicles from China have been infusing these studios with cash and influencing not only the content, but the way that they run their business.
I want to point that out to people too, because when you see a movie these days, so often you'll see that title thrown up, one of those many companies that you see before the movie starts, but it'll say "Wanda".
And it looks like the English word "Wanda", but what you're actually seeing is "Wan Da", which is a Chinese phrase, and there'll be that little red logo they have up there too.
So I appreciate that you brought them up, I actually think that this has a lot to do with China's takeover of Hollywood as well.
Well, it ties in so interestingly, because here's the thing. Harvey Weinstein's company, like many others, was going through a time of distress.
Financially, it was not doing well, and people think, "Well, it's got billions of dollars of revenue." Yeah, but if you've got billions more in expenses, your company's not doing so hot.
And so, for a long time, Harvey Weinstein was attempting to gain one of these types of Chinese cash infusions.
Goldman Sachs owns a large portion of the Weinstein company, they were kind of questioning it, and the reason they couldn't get the cash is because it was so well-known that Harvey Weinstein was so unscrupulous in his behavior, and unlike many of these people, couldn't even cover it up.
I mean, he would have drivers that he didn't even really know, didn't have them on non-disclosures, taking them out to five or six dates in one day.
And that's why he couldn't secure the investment from the Chinese or from anyone else, and so this was kind of an open secret.
So you're telling me, I don't want to explain this to people so they're catching up.
The Chinese said that Harvey Weinstein, the Chinese communists were so disgusted by Harvey Weinstein that that's why they wouldn't sign any deals with him.
The Chinese communists who killed 70 million people during Mao's Great Leap Forward, they were disgusted by Harvey Weinstein.
In essence, because what they were trying to do is do an investment, this is an extremely large investment, okay, when somebody's investing $100 million, whether they are the Chinese or they're Goldman Sachs or they're whomever, they're going to do their due diligence.
They're going to send in a team that's going to be on the ground, in the company for days, talking to everybody, it's just basic due diligence.
And that's the reason they couldn't get the infusion is because the culture of sexual misconduct and cover-ups was so pervasive at that company that they couldn't secure an investment.
And I constantly hear this, "Well, there's no Hollywood elite." We've heard Jimmy Kimmel say, "There's no Hollywood elite. It's not like we get together in a mansion and plan this all out."
And that couldn't be any more of a lie than saying the sky is red, not blue.
I remember, actually, it was a year ago today, invitations went out for a Hillary Clinton fundraiser at Jeff Katzenberg's house, his mansion in Beverly Hills.
They mentioned it was going to be $100,000 a plate.
And Katzenberg, he is one of these huge producers in Hollywood. Him, along with Weinstein, they're some of the people that really control the money spigot when it comes to Hollywood.
Katzenberg now is the chairman of DreamWorks. He used to run, he was a Disney executive for many years.
And they had a big fundraiser. They sent out the invitations, $100,000 a plate. Obama participated, I believe.
And then they had this whole thing on, I think it was the 25th of October, so it's been almost a year.
And the Hollywood elite show up. There's no phones allowed. They had a full Secret Service protection of Katzenberg's mansion, which is, anyone's wondering, right by the Greystone Mansion in Beverly Hills.
I remember all the streets were shut down by Secret Service and Beverly Hills PD and LAPD.
And you couldn't even get around, the traffic was so bad.
So everybody participates, okay, from the local politicians up to people that attend these events.
They shut down the whole roads, no phones allowed, $100,000 a plate, all goes into Hillary's slush fund.
Whether it be, you know, if she's campaigning, her campaign fund, or if she's not, the Clinton Foundation.
And then once every now and again, okay, they take somebody like Weinstein and they hang him out to dry.
And if you hear about the things that Weinstein did, which are disgusting, okay, and you hear lawyers that claim to be feminists, like Gloria Allred's daughter.
Yeah, Gloria Allred, Lisa Bloom.
Yeah, that's right. And they come out and they say, well, Weinstein grabbed, you can read this, New York Times, mainstream media got this even.
They say Weinstein grabbed the woman's breasts because he needed to see if they were real or not for a lingerie ad.
And the excuses they have are absolutely far-fetched.
But the point is, they're all in on it, they all go to these fundraisers, they all hang out together, they all know what's going on.
And when somebody like Weinstein, where they have nothing to lose, his company's kind of going belly up, they're looking for cash, they can't get it.
So the rumors are spreading. Of course that somebody at the New York Times is going to find out about it.
They're going to write up a piece, usually attempt to do a shakedown and pay them to go away if he's not willing to pay.
Right, right. And meanwhile, then these same people will turn around and accuse President Trump of, well, he looked at me when he was coming off the elevator.
And they'll put up these people that have been completely debunked again and again and again.
Now their latest claim, their latest conspiracy theory is to drag up the same, the Zelnos, the one who was discredited before by her own cousin,
to drag her up to bring fake stories that have been brought up before.
And they said, well, can we just have anything else? This is the type of stuff. Stick around, Jacob.
We're going to come back in the next segment. I want to talk about some of the stuff that's going on with child actors in Hollywood.
This is stuff that has been confirmed. This is stuff that people have actually gone to jail for.
But for some reason, they're still allowed to work with child actors.
We're going to talk about this and close out the hour right here coming up after the break.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones, which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Enjoy the power of survival shield X2 and bio true selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrix essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used and we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
Emrix essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrix essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit InfoWarsStore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide,
while also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at InfoWarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend, you will be supporting a free press,
all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at InfoWarsLife.com.
Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostagard.
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance.
InfoWars Life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there,
but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend.
The Prostagard formula does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper.
Prostagard is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day.
And from our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostagard on your side today exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to The Alex Jones Show.

We're winding up the final bit of hour four here.
I'm joined by my guest, Jacob Wall here in the studio.
We're talking about Hollywood. We're breaking down so much stuff.
I want to take a second to tell you all about something very important and that is vitamin B12.
And the fact that Secret 12 at InfoWarsStore.com is now on sale 40% off.
If you guys want to go through and get that, it's actually been extended.
They've extended the sale.
So it's running low because the sale has been going so well and stores have just been completely flying out.
But they're extending it because they want to actually get rid of the last bit that they have.
They want to have it all out at the sale price.
This Secret 12, this is, you guys, this is life essential vitamin.
It's something that we need that's taken out of so many of our foods.
Not only because of modern foods, because of processed foods, you're not getting the vitamin 12 that you always, that you need.
You absolutely need this. You need this for neurological function. You need it for DNA recovery.
It's usually found in natural protein, but so many times the meats that we're eating, so much of the food that we're getting doesn't have it in there.
And that's why it's so great. 40% off. You can get it on InfoWarsStore.
You can go there and not only are you able to help your own health, but you're now, we're supporting what's going on here at InfoWars.
You're able to support what we're doing. You're able to support our operations.
You're able to keep the lights on and the cameras rolling, quite frankly.
And that is what's so great. We don't take advertisements from any of these big corporations.
It's totally listener supported. So we're helping you support your health.
And you're helping us stay on and continue the fight to get the truth out there.
And that's what I want to bring up with our guest, Jacob Wall, right now, because here's a story you're absolutely not going to hear anywhere in the mainstream.
And that is the fact that we've got this guy, Brian Peck.
And he is actually a convicted pedophile. A convicted pedophile in Hollywood who was sentenced and served time for this.
Sixteen months, two counts of abusing a child actor for Nickelodeon. But for some reason, some reason, under California law, he is still allowed to work on set for children's television shows.
And is able to work around the children as long as he's not in "direct contact" with the children. I guess so that there's other people around.
So we're talking about someone in Hollywood. He was charged with eight counts of sexual abuse, including abuse with anesthesia and controlled substances.
He actually was convicted of two sentences, 16 months. Now, I always thought that if that happened, that you had to maintain it like a, that that was like a restraining order that I had to keep you away from children.
But we found that in Hollywood, apparently that's not the case. Where not only are they allowing you around children, they're encouraging and enabling it.
Jacob, help me make sense of all this stuff. This sounds absolutely crazy to me.
In California at large, there's been a movement for a long time to loosen up the laws on sex offenders.
In fact, they just passed a law just in the last few months that makes it so that sex offenders don't have to stay on the federal Megan's Law registry for their entire life if their offense is non-aggravated, which is just out of control.
But this is very pervasive in Hollywood. Nickelodeon in particular has been a hotspot of pedophilia for a long time.
I'm actually, as we speak, working sources at Nickelodeon and we're preparing to run an exclusive on yet another producer at Nickelodeon, the creator of many of their top shows.
And you've seen the allegations on Twitter and on Reddit.
I have seen the allegations.
Everybody's seen the allegations and I'm independently going one by one through these allegations, tracking down people in a position to know and verifying them.
I've seen this so far. Many of these allegations are being confirmed as we speak.
I just got a text while we were at the break from somebody I know who works at Nickelodeon, who's on the shows.
And these people are afraid because in particular, they talk about the balance of power. Right.
If you if you let me let me explain this to people.
So the Brian Peck, that situation which happened before, we don't know specifically which actor it was.
It was referred to as a John Doe in the actual case because they wanted to protect their their career.
And obviously we don't want to get into blaming the victims of these horrific crimes for the things that that these sexual predators do.
But that occurred while at Nickelodeon.
Now we're hearing stories, allegations of more stuff going on at Nickelodeon.
And again, this is not something that we are making up or creating.
This is an actual conviction of a pedophile at Nickelodeon.
And you're saying that you're hearing that there may be some more of these cover ups the same way that Harvey Weinstein was covered up for 30 years.
That's right. And what happens here to put people kind of to help them understand this.
A lot of times what happens is you get these child actors and they're from Ohio or they're from Michigan or they're or they're from anywhere in the Midwest, the East Coast.
Wherever they're from. For all we know, their parents work at Dunkin Donuts. It's what happens.
These kids move out to Hollywood. A lot of times they're they're living on their own at 14, 15, 16 years old.
And you have these producers and you've got people at Nickelodeon.
OK, this is this is totally confirmed, totally public.
Dan Schneider on his Twitter page saying that he's having sleepovers with the actors from the show and that they're bonding, many of whom are underage and they're having sleepovers at his house.
That's not necessarily what Michael Jackson used to do. Isn't that what he used to do?
There were there was like sleepovers at the Neverland Ranch and people. It really started to fuel a lot of rumors and charges were actually brought against him.
I believe there are a few settlements against that. But yeah, it was the fact that it was people were going on.
But then people look at you and they say, hey, what's wrong with Michael Jackson having a sleepover with a bunch of underage kids?
I mean, the culture in Hollywood is why are you accusing somebody of something wrong when it looks like a duck?
It quacks like a duck. It's probably a duck. And you've got people in Hollywood having pool parties and sleepovers with underage actors.
And obviously the balance of power there is is totally out of whack. Because what are these kids going to do?
Are they going to walk into Gloria Allred's office and file a lawsuit? Of course not.
And so these the worst of these guys go after the youngsters. They go after kids.
They go after these child actors because they know these kids say anything. It's right back to Ohio. It's right back to Michigan, wherever they're from.
And the kids, unfortunately, in Hollywood, the child actors are the biggest victims of this. Everybody from and it was the same that are starring extras.
It was the same situation with Harvey Weinstein and Harvey Weinstein's victims because he was such a powerful producer, because the Weinstein company was so powerful.
He could essentially make or break your career. These are people, kids in many, in many cases that go to Hollywood with stars in their eyes.
They want to be the next it, the next it girl, the next it boy. They want to get in movies.
They want to get in shows. They want to get in music videos, whatever it is. They know that's where you have to go through.
And so many of these victims, and I've read so many of these statements of Harvey Weinstein's victims and the ones even that he's admitted to at this point.
We've got him on NYPD tape, which is which is where the false equivalency comes in with President Trump.
They're trying to say, well, Trump was a sexual predator, too, is that no, except that all of Trump's accusations have completely disappeared when they're held up to scrutiny.
Whereas Harvey Weinstein was actually caught on tape in an NYPD sting.
And what happens is you've got these people that are in such massive levels of power.
They have so much influence. They can make or break your career. People want that career. They want that celebrity.
They called Weinstein God. They called him God. I mean, you know, they actually called him God.
And that's what you're talking about. Those are Oscar, Oscar, Oscar stage speeches and thank you speeches. He was thanked more times than God.
Harvey Weinstein, what is it about? So you're now you're out there. How come? Why is it that you're able to withstand some of the the pull of this, Jacob?
Well, I mean, first of all, I'm not in the entertainment business. I just don't care.
I mean, you know, people are talking to me. They say, hey, if you publish a story on Thursday, which I'm planning to publish and you publish this videotape, which I'm planning to publish.
You're not going to be able to get a job on Nickelodeon. And it's like, OK, I don't care. I'm not in the business of that.
I'm in the financial business. I'm in the news business. And and I just I just don't care because you care about the truth getting out there because you want it up.
Well, I tell you what, we're down to our last minute. Let people know where they can look for that tape on Thursday.
And then if it does go go, all right, we'll make sure to be able to get you back on and cover it.
Yeah, that's right. It's all going to be on offended America dot com. People can keep up with the latest there. We're working on the reports as we speak, trying to get people on the record, get them to come out so everybody can follow everything there.
They can follow me on Twitter at Jacob a wall.
Jacob, I really appreciate you having on. And folks, this is what we're talking about. These are the people we're fighting. Harvey Weinstein, we know, is just the tip of the iceberg.
But that is why we're here every day to expose these sickos and get the truth out to where it's needed. Stick around for we've got war room coming up.
Roger Stone's going to be on so much news is going to be broken. You can follow me on Twitter, Twitter dot com backslash Jack Posobiec, J CKPOSOBIEC. See a beautiful picture of myself and my wife to be in just about three weeks here. Thanks a lot, everyone.


whisper_print_timings:     load time =  2013.72 ms
whisper_print_timings:      mel time = 64425.95 ms
whisper_print_timings:   sample time = 22065.34 ms
whisper_print_timings:   encode time = 29262290.00 ms / 914446.56 ms per layer
whisper_print_timings:   decode time = 11643238.00 ms / 363851.19 ms per layer
whisper_print_timings:    total time = 40994716.00 ms
