Infowars.com is tomorrow's news. Today, you're listening to The Alex Jordan Show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are live on this Thursday, global transmission, the 18th day of October
2018. News just broke 10 minutes ago that we exclusively have on Infowars.com for western media.
Putin is holding a huge conference in Russia right now and just 15 minutes ago said this,
we're going to grab it in the next few minutes, we should have it for you in the next segment,
so you can actually see it for yourself. It is the most dramatic thing we've ever seen Putin,
who's normally pretty restrained, say. Just to show you what a dangerous situation this world is in.
This is from RT. It's on Infowars.com right now. And obviously the live stream that we have posted there
just got posted under a similar name that everybody needs to share because this is serious.
After nuclear holocausts will go to heaven as martyrs, attackers will die as sinners.
That's why I was a little bit late even getting into the chair here because I'd been dealing with this
since I was told about it just about 15 minutes ago. And I've seen a video for myself.
If any nation decides to attack Russia with nuclear weapons, it may end life on earth,
but unlike the aggressors, the Russians are sure to go to heaven. President Vladimir Putin has said
any aggressor should know that retribution will be inevitable and he will be destroyed.
And since we'll be the victims of his aggression, we will be going to heaven as martyrs.
They will simply drop dead. Won't even have time to repent.
Putin said during a session of the Valdai Club in Sochi,
he added that Russian nuclear forces are not tailored for preemptive strike
and exists as a second-strike ability meant to deter and attack by foreign nation.
The Russian nuclear doctrine allows for the use of weapons in a conventional conflict
but only of Russian exists as a stake. This presumably gives the Russian military a loophole
to use tactical nuclear weapons in case of large-scale invasion. That's U.S. policy as well.
The self-imposed restrictions are less harsh than the complete no-first pledge,
which was dropped by Moscow in 1993.
The U.S. latest nuclear posture review says that Washington may use nuclear weapons
in response to a non-nuclear attack on its self-reliance, including an Internet attack.
That's Hillary's work in Obama's. It remains vague about the exact circumstances
that may trigger such an action. Hillary said it was clear.
It's even an Internet attack they could blame on them, blame on the Russians.
This gave rise to speculation that even a cyberattack may permit a nuclear response.
Meanwhile, a call for the creation of small-yield submarine launch missiles
and nuclear-capable sea launch cruise missiles have only added to concerns
that the U.S. is stocking up and stocking up for some kind of large-scale conflict.
As more unfolds this just broke, like I said, like 20 minutes ago now,
we will have the video for you on the other side and we will have a lot more, obviously.
This is a big, big deal. When you look at the rest of the posture of the world,
when you look at the globalists trying to derail the peace deal that Trump's got
with Saudi Arabia, that's what all this Khashoggi stuff is about,
it's all just amazing with 19 days out from this obviously incredibly historic,
critical midterm election. Meanwhile, boy, I'd say the season's right.
Halloween right around the corner, Sam Hain, only 12 days away, 13 days away,
and then the election a few days after that, we have all these videos of Democrats
all over the U.S. foaming at the mouth of acting like they're demon-possessed
and attacking people, tearing down Ted Cruz's signs, you name it.
It is all coming up on the other side of this break as these people go into total crazed mode.
There is so much more obviously coming up.
Trump threatens to call U.S. military up to stop the U.N. breaking down our borders and more.
Whatever you do, tell folks about the broadcast now and break the blockade.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
The live conference is still ongoing,
but we've found the video and are getting it ready to take it on air here very very soon.
A Vladimir Putin 25 minutes ago or so, after nuclear holocaust will go to heaven as martyrs,
attackers will die as sinners.
Very very strong language from Putin.
You plug this into what's happening geopolitically, economically what the globalists are trying to do,
trying to kill any peace deals that Trump wanted to have.
It's a very very serious time to be alive on this planet.
Meanwhile, U.S. is seeing relentless rise in household wealth, credit Swiss says.
But that doesn't matter. Here's the LA Times.
As Trump slams the private run-for-profit Federal Reserve,
its policy makers are turning and tuning him out and moving ahead with rate hikes.
So we've got seven or eight hikes now they're looking at maybe four or five more to suppress the economy
because it isn't Trump who's the president.
No, ladies and gentlemen, it's ex-fed chief Greenspan.
He says this is the tightest labor market I've ever seen, CMBC.
He says the economy's roaring and we need to raise interest rates.
So they had zero interest rates for Obama, but only gave the free money to themselves.
Sub-citiaries of the private Federal Reserve had very tight credit.
Since 2009 on the general public in America, China was given unlimited credit.
India was given unlimited credit because the big brain bugs, the big supercast elites,
they had decided that America was to be a service economy so that we could be managed like a dog and brought to heel.
And in rides, Trump trying to turn that around and as Trump said just a day ago,
the biggest threat to the recovery and the biggest threat to America is the private run-for-profit Federal Reserve
that is openly trying to spike the economy.
Because Trump went in with cutting regulations and some basic tax cuts to working people
and some corporate taxes to get a few factories to move back.
China's at zero. We're at 15 now. We were at 40.
They dropped from 15 to zero to counter us.
Just a few ball and chains.
We have like 50 tied to our legs, but Trump's getting six or seven of them off.
He's trying to cut the others off of the blow torch, but the Federal Reserve's walking up with more balls and chains
as fast as Trump can cut them off.
Unbelievable that we put up with this type of garbage for the private run-for-profit Federal Reserve.
I played yesterday. We just played again today.
Alan Greenspan, 11 years ago on the Lair News Hour,
saying we are our own branch of government and no one can regulate us and we are above the law.
Let's just play it again. Here it is.
Well, first of all, the Federal Reserve is an independent agency,
and that means basically that there is no other agency of government
which can overrule actions that we take.
So long as that is in place and there is no evidence that the administration or the Congress or anybody else
is requesting that we do things other than what we think is the appropriate thing,
then what the relationships are don't, frankly, matter.
So you've got the states and you've got the federal government.
You've got the legislative, executive, and judicial in the states and the federal government.
It's called the federal system. Doesn't mean it's all federally run.
The federalists, there were the anti-federalists. You can research them.
Different perspectives on this, but the federalists said that power was shared equally by the feds and the states for a balance.
And then the three branches within each also shared power.
But you didn't know there was a fourth branch.
At least, you're not supposed to know that because it's not supposed to be one.
Of the private run-for-profit Federal Reserve set up by JP Morgan and others in 1913 at Jekyll Island,
snuck through on December 23rd, 1913 by three senators who passed it and put it into place to give private offshore banks control over our economy.
And here we are a hundred and four years later and they're arrogantly sitting up on national television saying,
we are independent, no one can control us, no one can do anything.
We decide. There's like this upper ceiling like Mount Olympus.
You go through the cloud cover and there it is where the gods live.
You can't go there. There's a big chasm between us and them, but there they are.
Just like the breakaway criminal groups in the Justice Department and the breakaway criminal groups in the CIA under the National Security Act, 1947.
Just doing whatever they want, however they want, and shelling America out to the world.
Because the globalists, which are the children and the political bastard children of the Robber Barons and the British Empire,
the authoritarian corporatists, the crony capitalists, they want the American system dead, dead and gone.
And that's why when we come back, I'm going to play a Tucker Carlson piece that is extremely powerful,
where he makes the point and documents it that the Democrats hate America and hate the people of America
and have organized large swaths of people to work in tandem with the multinational corporate powers, the unelected EU,
and the unelected mass murdering kingpins of the chai-com nightmare oligarchy.
That's the real world.
We're going to play Tucker Carlson, then we're going to play the most vicious leftist attacks on widows of 9-11,
people pulling yard signs up, breaking into Linda Blair, Demonic, Jibber, all of it.
But we're going to go to break and we have the full clip coming up of Vladimir Putin's warning of thermonuclear Armageddon.
Here it is.
Only if we identify through that system that missiles are being launched at us,
only that will we deliver a retaliatory strike, a strike in response,
only when there are missiles airborne being launched at Russia.
Of course, that would lead to a global disaster, to a nuclear catastrophe,
and Russia cannot become its instigator or initiator, because we don't have a preventive strike in our military doctrine.
Of course, once someone has launched nuclear missiles at us, it would be maybe too late to stop them,
but a potential aggressor should know that there will be retaliation, and we will get to heaven as martyrs,
and our enemies will simply die as dogs, because they won't even have time to redeem themselves.
Will we destroy ourselves? Because if you look at this whole situation with Saudi Arabia and the Washington Post reporter,
and all the rest of it, you see there's different factions in our government that don't want Iran to be brought to its knees,
who are working to derail Saudi Arabia. Does that mean I like Saudi Arabia? Does that mean they're perfect? No, but huge bombings,
murders, tortured death, women being executed by Saudi Arabia, the left doesn't ever talk about it or care.
But as soon as it can make Trump look bad, well, then my gosh, we need to basically have a war with Saudi Arabia.
So you can see how there's different globalist forces playing nation states off against each other,
and there's more of this Putin information coming up as well.
Full video will be uploaded and posted to infowars.com. It is extremely important.
At the bottom of the hour, I'll get into the real nuclear threat and why even top experts agree
the Doomsday clocks closer to midnight than it's ever been. That's at the bottom of the hour.
But first, why does the left hate America so much? Because they were born, raised, and bred,
and trained on the universities that they're the ruling class, and they will take down America.
They are the cancer introduced to the body politic, and they mean business.
They are filled with the same of a hate that other authoritarian kinsmen on the streets have always been filled with.
I'm Alex Jones, infowars.com, presidentplanet.com, newswars.com. Only you can cut to the sensors and share those links.
Health care reform is confusing, but whether it's finding an affordable insurance plan, keeping your doctor,
or being able to afford needed prescriptions, navigating the health care system has become a challenge.
Control your own health care costs and choices with Liberty Health Share. Liberty Health Share is not insurance.
It is an association with the United States of America.
The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world.
George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of America is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world.
George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken.
Its former colony, the U.S., had to save the empire.
Was there ever a vote? Who do we fight for? The deep state began with World War I.
The United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you.
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to GoBerkey.com.
Call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. GoBerkey.com.
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Based on hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee bean.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine.
Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
You can have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive to get to the gym, get to the park,
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you.
SuperMailVitality.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
There are too many examples who count the craved hatred of the left, the antifa foaming at the mouth.
What's happening? It's called Trump Derangement Syndrome and it's infectious.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from the infowarst.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Get the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Because he who commands you, he who plans you,
heads of heaven, and the depths of hell,
be gone from this creature of God.
Be gone in the name of the Father,
and the Son.
Hillary's doctor visiting her last night.
The power of Christ compels you.
The power of Christ compels you.
The power of Christ compels you.
The power of Christ compels you.
The power of Christ compels you.
The power of Christ compels you!
You know, you can joke around about this.
The power of Christ compels you!
This is from...
You asked for this.
The power of Christ compels you!
Produced and direct by the CIA.
The power of Christ compels you.
The power of Christ compels you!
The power of Christ compels you!
The power of Christ compels you!
The power of Christ compels you!
Now, we're going to go ahead and leave this now, but it's important to understand that
whether they're adopting the archetype of being demon-possessed or whether it's really
happening, it doesn't matter, it's happening.
We have six videos that I currently just thought of today of Antifa and others actually
saying we love Satan, we love the devil, we love killing babies and hissing.
And if you say anything about loving God or wearing a cross on your shirt, anything,
they begin hissing and flopping around, and it's simply amazing.
If you're a radio listener, infowars.com forward slash show, you'll be able to see
this.
We'll post the video later.
I've got a bunch of videos I'm going to get to now, and then Tucker Carlson of this
happening.
Now, this is just yesterday, the videos on infowars.com and newswars.com.
I suggest you scroll down halfway down the page and find it because it's from yesterday,
from last night, and get it out to people.
But this is Houston, where the man out front of his house seeing a trendy skinny jeans
person who, again, watched too much Harry Potter movies or read too many Harry Potter
books, coming over in his little skinny jeans and pulling up signs in the man's yard.
Then he goes over to the man's neighbor and starts pulling up the signs, and then he runs
into a bar called the Black Hole.
So it's perfect that the demon then runs into a Black Hole, which I'm sure if he doesn't
repent and get with Christ, he will be going to that demon into a Black Hole.
And then say, I hate that cruise, your mother, you know what your mother doesn't help.
So whether they're trying to freak out and see Christians as conservatives or conservatives
as Christians, they allow themselves, the left hand path, the leftist, they see themselves
as the devil archetype is bad.
And they see a cruise supporter as the Christian archetype, you understand?
So they're targeting that.
So that's their colors.
That's why so many anti-fun left now wear pentagrams, which is pentacles, a symbol
of a human, your head, your arms, your legs, like Michelangelo.
And so they reverse that, it's a person crucified upside down.
So let's go ahead and go to this creature.
There he is.
That is my property.
It is your property?
Yes.
Okay.
This is, oh, that's your property too, though, huh?
That's my neighbor's property.
He's a gun owner.
Oh, I'm a gun owner too.
I would watch.
Be careful.
Okay.
If you guys shoot me over that, that would be great.
That would be really like, you know, an opposite of an appropriate response.
Well, yeah, I have about 100 of these, I'm about to put more out.
Cool.
All right, well, I'll feel better about this.
Pulling up the dead cruise signs, walking across the street, back to the black hole.
I hate the cruise!
I hate the cruise!
I hate the cruise!
I hate the cruise!
I hate the cruise!
I HATE THE GROODS! I HATE THE GROODS!
Ah!
I HATE THE GROODS!
Look at this clown who's following me!
Look at those skinny jeans!
I've lived here for 15 years, not had this behavior. He just wouldn't like to tour up our signs.
My tour up is Ted Cruz's sign, because I've lived here for 26 years, grew up here.
You moved here, you moved to Montrose? You're from Montrose?
Ted Cruz is not from Montrose, go to the women's!
Now, notice the territorialism, the swaggering, the violence, the hate, the demonic affectation.
And I'll show you video after video when we come back of the same thing.
And that's because that's the spirit of these people.
Even clean-cut women at the Capitol, it's happened several times in Texas, this famous video.
Liberal women will be walking through and see a prayer vigil to try to restrict abortion,
and they will start saying Satan!
Kill an antie! Because there's real satanic power in killing babies.
And this is their meal, their blood meal.
So when we come back, we'll play the old A-team intro, the abortion team, the antifa team,
and we'll break down what's happening.
But so many lepers, if you go to their events, literally do this.
They go, for hours, they'll destroy us! Satan!
And that's why they hate everybody, it's why they're so twisted, it's why they want death,
why they want the economy to fail.
And everywhere they get control, everything collapses.
They are a virus, because we have put up with them and let them bully us.
And now even in Texas, in every city, except San Antonio, it was now deep blue.
And none of them work, they just strut around in skinny jeans, pissing on everything,
taking drugs all day, and just engage in every form of degeneracy you can imagine.
And their religion is running your life and making you pay for their life,
and being bureaucrats and ruling you.
Because evil doesn't work, it just rules, and pisses on everything.
And when confronted with resistance, they absolutely crumble.
But don't worry, the police, when antifa attacks you anywhere in America,
will come and arrest you, they've even raised your arm when they're clubbing you.
The police in blue shitties will arrest you, because antifa-methed devil worshipers are God,
ugly, stupid, hunchbacked, they must be lifted up, they must be praised by the system,
like their witch, God, Hillary, ugly, stupid, feeble, demonic, stinking, to be worshipped.
Don't forget, mega sales in our history, right now at infowarstore.com,
with them trying to shut us down, all the nutraceuticals, 50% off, free shipping store-wide,
giant deals in the highest quality storeable foods, 35% off, and the sales are exploding.
Thank you all for your support, but get your products now, because I'm going to end this sale very, very soon
at infowarstore.com, whatever you do, however you're listening, tell people about the broadcast,
the enemy hates it.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road,
Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com, that's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans company.
I want to be a market leader, and I want you to have storeable food, so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back at infowarstore.com on info or select storeable foods.
They've got special diet foods, they've got pre-month supplies, your supplies, weak emergency supplies.
They've got so many great products there.
If you've got a three-year supply, if stuff happens, you can feed your whole block.
It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
If you're buying war bonds, bringing great products and together with God's help, we are unstoppable.
infowarstore.com and info or select high-quality storeable foods powered by my Patreon supply.
It is a classical 360-win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year, and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family, and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Field, infowarstore.com.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official oil formula or just want an alternative,
infowarstore.com has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and Omega-3s
found in our high-quality, ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s, Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil
with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health, and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high-quality Crill Oil concentrate,
paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately.
It's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil, now available at infowarstore.com.
You've found it. The front lines of the human awakening. It's the infowar.
And now, Alex Jones.
Everywhere leftist Antifa are literally howling and screaming at the sky and praising Satan.
And there have been more bizarre attacks even here in Texas yesterday.
What is this psychic or spiritual disease that's spreading as full-grown adults behave like satanic toddlers on PCP?
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
The power of Christ compels you!
The power of Christ compels you!
USA! USA!
The power of Christ compels you!
It's the same to her. She literally turns green when they chant USA, and then she goes...
USA! USA! USA!
You're looking for Ted Dobby!
Are you honest with anyone?
Are you honest with anyone?
Is that all you know how to do?
USA! USA!
And now this in Houston yesterday. The Ted Cruz psychic.
I'm just going to take him down.
If you're at your property...
That is my property.
It is your property?
Yes.
This is... oh, that's your property too though, huh?
That's my neighbor's property. He's a gun owner.
Oh, I'm a gun owner too.
I would like to be careful.
If you guys shoot me over that, that would be great.
That would be really like, you know...
I bet this guy's a community college professor.
You know, I have bought a hundred of these.
I'm about to put more out.
Alright, well, I'll feel better about this.
That was not hard. I have a big problem.
I hate the Cruz! I hate the Cruz! I hate the Cruz!
The power of Christ compels you.
I hate the Cruz!
In today's world, abortion supporters routinely attend
pro-life rallies and attempt to bully activists.
If you have a problem and need a smelly group of commie devil worshipers,
maybe you can call the A-team.
How many did I insult? I killed my kids.
I killed my kids.
So why the f*** do you think we should break the f***ing veil
that doesn't stand for women's rights?
Hey, we saw your Facebook with your communist hammer and sickle.
That's pretty cool, man.
Is that you on the Facebook?
Is there a Facebook page of you with a hammer and sickle?
I don't think so.
A donor is a donor and a f***ing bloodshed.
How do you get your abortion speed?
I paid for them.
I thought you said three.
Uh, upwards of 50.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
Oh!
F*** you, you piece of s***!
Bunch of misogynists and motherf***ers.
Take your mail privilege somewhere else.
Probably, you're being aggressive.
I'm being aggressive.
Come on, in on us!
In on us!
Wow!
Watch out!
These stats think guys that attack outstrips.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God!
Lots of Democrats hailing Satan.
There you go.
From the front lines of the information war, I'm Alex Jones, your host.
So we just joined us.
Coming up next segment, he just said it like 45 minutes ago, 50 minutes ago.
We had the video.
This is nowhere else in the U.S.
It's not even on the RT page.
We have it at infowars.com.
We're going to be playing it.
Putin basically saying, get ready for nuclear war.
Nuclear war.
Nuclear holocaust.
Russians will all go to heaven.
Those who attack us first will go straight to hell because they're dogs.
That's pretty big.
What I'm illustrating here is there's so many leftist attacks on people now that I can't
even keep track of them.
And if you're a woman or a child or disabled, that's who they tend to target.
I remember at that particular anti-abortion rally we had pointing out that 51% of blacks
on average are aborted because we're such evil racists.
We're pointing out that's the real KKK, Margaret Sanger.
And then you see the leftist, roundhouse kicking, peaceful pro-life women in the face.
At the events we've been at, they come up and say, we love Satan.
They have devil tattoos all over them.
And they're not just trying to be cool, folks.
They mean this stuff.
And it just gets worse and worse and worse.
Well, I can't even keep track of it anymore.
And now we've got all these prominent people defending MS-13, like Nancy Pelosi and James Brown.
I mean, excuse me, Maxine Waters, all of them.
And I just asked myself, when does it end?
When does it end?
There's a new Maxine Waters clip we're going to play later where she defends Sharia law.
And just to hear 15 years ago, they were going to put in Sharia law here in America.
And they were going to try it in Europe.
And they'd bought the politician.
I thought that was crazy, super right-wing fear mongering.
Because I never thought we were that stupid.
It's happening everywhere.
Because we put up with all this crap.
Now, I said I'd get the Tucker Carlson, but it's a four and a half minute super powerful clip.
I'll get to it at the start of the next one.
It says what everybody else needs to say because it's the truth.
The left knows they hate America.
That's who they are.
They're not liberals.
They're not conservatives.
They're leftist.
And Prager University does a five minute video on this that is the best out there.
Learn the history of the left hand path.
It means the devil worship party.
The Jacobins, the French Revolution were Illuminati devil worshipers.
That's in mainline history books.
I've had Lord Moncton is a famous inventor and historian and top advisor to market thatcher.
And I said, where does it all come from?
Well, my young friend, it comes from the Jacobins and the French Revolution.
Yes.
Yes.
I can ask any real historian where it all comes from.
It comes from the left hand path.
My good boy.
Well, what is the left hand path?
Selfishness.
Patheticness.
Not working yourself but making others work for you.
Entitlement.
A hate of life.
You hear the chant USA.
You begin to act like Linda Blair having holy water dumped on her now.
Let's go to this other clip that's on infowars.com that I know you know this, but we need to get it out.
Antifa protester 9-11 widow, your husband should effing rot in the grave.
And I'm sorry, this is a family show.
I mean, you go back 15 years ago, we might have had one beep a week on there.
Now half the segments have beeps at them because that's who these people are.
And we need to point out who they are.
So she's harassing the lady in Portland because she looks conservative.
They just harass anybody now.
And she says, you know, I lost my husband on 9-11 and he says, you deserved it.
To see all cops and all firefighters, they're part of the system.
So let's go and go to that clip. Here it is.
Why are you trying to block me? How the f*** are you trying to walk here?
I have made traffic signals.
You're a f***ing snarky f***ing idiot.
Shut the f*** up.
Try something, bitch.
I'm not. I'm not going to punch you.
I'm not like your husband. I'm not going to punch you.
I'm not like your boyfriend or your top boyfriend.
You f***ing knock you out. So don't worry.
My husband died on 9-11.
Good for him. Good.
Good.
What's that?
NYPD for a f***ing thought-a-mising.
F***ing thought-a-mising immigrants with their bully sticks.
So yeah, you're f***ing your husband.
You're probably f***ing just rotten the grave.
By the way, Trump told Honduras and Guatemala he'll cut money off if they don't try to stop it.
Now they're saying they're trying to stop it, but they can't.
Tens of thousands are opening up migration routes under the UN official treaty
to flood us as a weaponized attack just like Europe.
Hungary, Austria, and others have pulled out of the UN compact.
Italy's pulling out.
We are under globalist attack using these giant, poor folks, mainly out of Venezuela.
The whole country's collapsed, and now they're all moving this way.
And once they get here, they'll be taught to bitch and gripe and hate America and piss all over everything.
So, there you go, ladies and gentlemen. That's how it is.
We're so bad. Everybody wants to get here.
We're so racist. Everybody wants to get here.
Baloney.
We are under globalist attack, and they admit we're under attack.
So stand up and speak out to the leftist bullies or be enslaved.
Period. Choose what side you're on.
5.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWords is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, leftist CIA operatives,
the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future. We didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is, and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us,
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at infowords.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags. We'll win.
We have huge sales at infowordsstore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros the glove will spank win.
This is infowords darkest hour. With your support, I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
She can't help it if she's made that way. She's not to blame if they look her way.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene. It just come naturally.
I'm counting on you.
I'm counting on you.
She can't help it if she's made that way. She's not to blame if they look her way.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
She ain't really trying to cause a scene.
The Alex Jones show because there is a war on for your mind.
Don't stop at the top, my friends. Defeat the globalist. It's Thursday, the 18th day of October, 2018.
Oh, I love the Scorpion songs. Crank it up.
No, I want to know the trouble. I want to hear the problem. Tell me, let's go.
To the best time in humanity's destiny. Don't stop at the top.
I love the challenge. This is where I'm supposed to be.
In the center of the fight, in the center of the arena, fighting the biggest enemies, toe-to-toe, because the closer I get to their defeat, the closer I get to God.
My spirit smiles.
Think about that. Your will is one power they won't break, ever.
And they can feel our will rising. My will has never been stronger, never been more powerful.
Is that a mountain too high? Spread your wings. You're going to make it to the best time in your life.
Don't stop at the top.
And the top isn't being powerful in this system. The top isn't even overthrowing their system.
Get behind me, Satan. The top is accelerating into the future and innovating and the renaissance that God gave us, where the enemy can't even understand what we've done.
And they're always attacking the last thing we did, instead of knowing what we're doing now, because they don't understand it.
So they seek to destroy us. They seek to brain damage the entire population under eugenics and poisonous.
We're infertile, where the science can take control of reproduction, try to build humans that will finally be conquered by evil.
Now, they have removed us off YouTube because I have films that have been on YouTube with hundreds of millions of views.
Hundreds of millions, hundreds and hundreds of millions of views, just for films.
I produced loose chains that had 200 million on Google video before they took it down and over 80 million on YouTube before they took it down.
That's two different versions. There's a bunch of versions after that.
In-game, Obama deception, all of it. In-game had over 60 million views for taking off Google video.
Last time I checked, all together about 10 million views on YouTube.
And so what do they do? They remove me so they can introduce the counterfeit.
And I'm sure this young man probably doesn't even know he's part of that.
But, oh, where have we heard of this before? The thinning.
I was actually producing a film I never got to finish called The Culling.
The thinning was to be called The Culling, The New World Order.
Well, but they have a film called The Thinning, New World Order.
Logan Paul, who's an official YouTube operative who goes and finds the dead Japanese person in the woods.
And then, oh, don't worry, YouTube will censor, but, oh, he was brought back, totally staged.
I don't know if he knows that.
But, oh, he got his reprieve, but, oh, it's his fault. We all lose our free speech.
He's got a film about a world government. And if you don't pass a test for eugenics, you're killed.
And, oh, one-child policies, which is all being set up and done.
But, see, now it's put out on YouTube Red. You can't put it out with the documents.
Now it's real. Now we can stop it. You just put it out with Logan Paul.
And so all the work we've done becomes, oh, you got that from Logan Paul.
No, I got it from UNESCO in the U.N.
So let's go ahead and go to the trailer for his new film, The Thinning New World Order.
Students must take a test over population. Those who fail are executed, but Logan's run.
We are live for the memorial service of Blake Redding, son of Texas Governor Dean Redding,
who lost his life when he failed his thinning exam last week at Vista Point High School.
Miss Michaels, I wanted to offer you an advisory role in our new thinning oversight committee.
And notice it's Texas. My Christians want to call you.
Or not with the governor. Or with the fight.
We're hiding in plain sight at all levels of government to garner influence to end the thinning.
We need you to help the governor. Find a way in.
There are still a lot of questions that need answers.
No one person ever saw Blake's body.
What are we doing this?
He dig up his body. He's not there.
They're really in a concentration camp.
Congratulations. Your class has been spared.
Every single one of you was chosen to receive a second chance at life.
Ellie! Governor's kid, right? Probably used to getting whatever you want.
Ellie belongs to me now. If you look at him, I'm going to kill you.
But that's really how it works. Students are being put to work in some kind of labor camps.
Like THS 1138, they give you the drug to brain damage you. They put you in the rehab.
They'll put you in the cult.
Everything you've been told about this place is alive.
And no one's ever gotten to a place where they have to try.
So it's the island meets THS 1138.
Meet reality.
I'm going to take the wrong person in power.
And notice they'll censor him and then bring him back to make him like the star.
And I'm not even against this guy.
This is our last chance at this.
Now here's Endgame from 11 years ago.
And look how much of this has come true. Here's Endgame.
In the near future, Earth is dominated by a powerful world government.
Once free nations are slaves to the will of a tiny elite, the dawn of a new dark age is upon mankind.
Countries are a thing of the past. Every form of independence is under attack.
With the family and even the individual itself nearing extinction.
Close to 80% of the Earth's population has been eliminated.
The remnants of a once free humanity are forced to live within highly controlled, compact, prison-like cities.
Travel is highly restricted. Super highways connect the megacities
and keep the population from entering into unauthorized zones.
No human activity is private.
AI supercomputers chronicle and categorize every action.
A prison planet dominated by a ruthless gang of control freaks whose power can never be challenged.
This is the vision of the global elite, their goal.
A program of total dehumanization where the science of tyranny is lost.
A worldwide control grid designed to ensure the overlords' monopoly of power forever.
Our species will be condemned to this nightmare future unless the masses are awakened to the New World Order master plan
and mobilized to defeat it.
Orected by a secretive group, the Georgia Guidestones are a testament to the elite's plan for a world religion,
global laws with a global court and army to enforce it.
And set in stone, it is written that the population never rise above 500 million.
In this film you will learn how our world is truly governed.
You will see how highly secretive round table groups interlock to form a global intelligence network.
This group has been steering planetary affairs for hundreds of years.
Now in the final stage, they prepare for open world government.
A goal tyrants throughout history have lost it after.
That's the intro to a two and a half hour long film.
But see, I knew that if we exposed it, people would reject it.
And so we've done that.
And that's why we're the detonator.
That's why M4's is hated.
Because the work we did, they were so arrogant.
You know, 15 years ago when I had films, 100 million viewers, you name it.
But then they started clamping down just, what'd you do?
I don't let him up.
Now it's like, get him off the head.
Because it's real.
Everything you see in in-game is now come true or they admit they're trying it.
So now they're going to make it jokes on YouTube with, you know, Logan Paul.
Fine.
But the real emergency transmission is here.
So you've just seen the real contents of this thinning new world order leaked.
So get this video out.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
In these uncertain times, it makes sense to have a sustainable backup method to cook food
and boil water.
If your current plan includes using a fuel burning stove or cooking over an open fire, then there's
a much better way.
The Minuteman rocket stove is a biomass burning cooking stove that only requires small quantities
of sticks and twigs for fuel.
Minuteman stove is easy to use, smokeless, portable, powerful, and sustainable.
For the finest in survival cooking stoves and fire starters made right here in the USA,
go to Minutemanstove.com.
That's Minutemanstove.com.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement, and I've helped thousands of people deal with
tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-no-tax or go to my website, danpilla.com, that's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms,
there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time
as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates,
but a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater,
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles,
and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter,
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water,
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You won't hear me, but you'll hear me.
Coming up next segment, the third place cyclist was really the second place cyclist
in the world's international cycling championship, came out and said it's wrong that a biological man
was built like Arnold Schwarzenegger, said he was a woman, and won the cycling contest.
That'd be like if I went and said I was going to sign up for women's junior high baseball,
and I was beating him or wrestling, or maybe I say, I mean it doesn't end there,
maybe I say I'm in Pee Wee baseball or Pop Warner football.
So I'm 45 years old, 240 pounds, and I'm running over six year olds,
and I'm the winners, I identify as a six year old.
She said it was definitely not fair, well now she's apologized,
because they're harassing her and bullying her,
and that ties into this incredible clip of Jack Dorsey saying,
free speech on Twitter, it was always a joke,
because we're not going to let weaponized media on there,
you're not going to let people counter all the antifa professors
and sides with millions of followers, in some cases, saying kill Republicans,
because we're kicking your ass politically and you're a dirtbag monster.
So don't apologize lady, my God, thank God you're sane.
Kleenex to kill its man size tissues that consumers declare them sexist.
That's right, you want bigger tissues, saying man is bad.
Wow, what a cult, they mean business, what they've done these universities,
and we all just, whatever they want, we just bow down, bow down, bow down,
bow down, bow down, bow down, bow down, always more, more, more, more, more.
But in communist China, they don't let all this anti-family stuff go on,
because they know it's meant to bring down a country, even authoritarian's don't.
In Hungary, they're banning gender studies, because they know it's meant to end the genders.
Russia's banned it, think about that, because they know it's meant to destroy their population
and reduce their population to nothing.
Absolute zilch, it is the depopulation program,
but they use our hospitality to get in the door, the vampires always do,
oh, it's a cold, dark night, would you have me in for a hot bowl of soup?
I'm so hungry.
By the way, can I teach your children to be accepting?
Let me have time with your children alone.
Everything's okay, if you just give in to us, it'll all pass very quickly.
I know this could go really hard on you.
You see, these globalist scientists, these mad scientists have come up with their program
with their operation, and they think you're idiots, and they think you're over,
they think you're done, but I say you're not, and I know you're not,
and that's why we forced them with this fight.
I thought if we exposed globalism versus liberty, you'd want liberty.
I thought if we took action, they would oppress more, which would make people wake up even faster,
and it was our only chance before they got their full system in place.
And so far, we're winning.
So far, my gut level belief in you, belief in myself, belief in God, belief in families,
and the human journey, and how we're always late to wake up, but once we wake up, we rally.
My belief in that fundamental has been proven right so far.
So don't let them ever demoralize you, my friends, because that's all they've got.
I want to talk about the left 19 days out and the accelerated violence and the attacks and the insanity
and the endorsement by the Democrats of Sharia law.
I've got video of that coming up. It's official. It's crazy.
I want to open up the waterfront here, whatever you want to cover on this Thursday global transmission.
The toll free number to join us is 877-789 Alex, 877-789-2539, 877-789 Alex.
And if you were on hold yesterday when the show ended, go to the front line.
I want to hear from you coming up.
And I'll get to the Putin clip when we start the next segment of the full clip of him talking about nuclear war.
After nuclear holocaust will go to heaven as martyrs, attackers will die as sinners.
I think I would agree that people that launched the attack wouldn't be the bad guys if it's offensive.
But it's kind of like getting in a room with your own family and pulling the pin.
Everybody's going to get blown up by the hand grenade. Let's just not do it.
But that is the new danger we're going into.
And Russia is not expanding its offensive force. We are.
So that's all coming up, ladies and gentlemen.
But before we go any further, before I expand, I say we need support.
But then I tend to only plug once an hour or other radio host plug every segment.
We can bring a lot of sponsors onto the show as well.
It's just that that's like whack them old tracking after that and keeping them happy and doing it all.
Then they get targeted. I just direct sell products to you.
And I also want you to get great products because I use them and I want to treat you like I want to be treated.
Reap what you show. Do unto others as you have them do unto you.
Golden rule. Just as common sense for me.
But I also wanted to work really good, even if I was a sociopath, which I'm not, on the opposite.
But you know, being the opposite of a sociopath means you get kind of wild and crazy because you love people so much.
It's almost, if you don't have the right information, good people can be manipulated into evil.
See, a lot of sociopaths control good people.
We need to be conscious of that and not let them pull our heart strings.
But when things are proven and things have been tested and things have been shown to really be helping humanity
and are showing to be hitting the enemy where it hurts, that's what you've got to support.
You know a man buys enemies. You know a woman buy their enemies.
So I'm asking you for your support and it's so easy to do. Everybody needs fish oil.
And we've got the best grill oil, the best wild harvested salmon from the fords of Northern Europe.
We've got the best children's fish oil concentrate that's been totally cleansed and had the murky removed.
So you get the win-win in honor roll, ultimate fish oil, ultimate grill oil, ultimate honor roll for students' brains.
What's good for everybody but they're little smaller capitals for children.
They're all 50% off and so is X2.
You know we're selling out of it. It's the last run of X2.
We've not re-secured that contract to get that form of pure clean iodine back to the halogen.
But we got some things in the works but this is the last run of that.
98% reviews, 4.9 on power reviews, unheard of, 6,153 reviews.
MFullWarsStore.com, MFullWarsLive.com, or AAA2533139. And you see them trying to take our payment processors and shut us down, taking PayPal and a bunch of others.
But we've got folks that say they'll stand with us almost lined up but just get those orders.
And that's what we've got Christmas and Black Friday and Cyber Monday all rolled into this biggest sale ever at MFullWarsStore.com.
Free shipping, 50% off the highest quality supplements.
Brainforce Plus, Real Red Pill Plus now with Energy, the vitamin mineral fusion. It's all amazing. You need it. It's the very best out there.
I'll stack up Bibles within our best research. The best we can bring you for the prize. It's amazing.
And it funds it all. This is all 10% off when you sign up for auto-ship.
Get books, t-shirts, all of MFullWarsStore.com today. Biggest sale ever. We'll be right back.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road, Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit Gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
X2, we were selling it for about three years, and then they found out how big it was.
And I was, we were buying, and they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract, and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in next to it.
It's literally so pure that if you put it in a picker dish on top of a 90 degree hot plate, it gasses, like I dream of genie, and it's purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down, and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run of Survival Shield X2, and we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, M4store.com.
If you have experience, you know how great it is, I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time at M4store.com right now.
Our grandparents, the great grandparents, know that they canned food during the fall, so they'd have it during the winter.
And that's what I'm talking about at M4store.com.
With M4Select, it's the full spectrum of my Patriot supply on the top, most respected companies out there.
But because I private label it, I'm able to go below cost on contracts that all their other distributors aren't able to do.
But I want to be a market leader, and I want you to have storeable food so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back at M4store.com on M4Select storeable foods. They've got special diet foods.
They've got three-month supplies, year supplies, weak emergency supplies.
They've got so many great products there.
If you've got a three-year supply, if stuff happens, you can feed your whole block.
It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
If you're buying war bonds, bringing great products together with God's help, we are unstoppable.
M4store.com and M4Select high-quality storeable foods, powered by my Patriot supply.
There's the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process, with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the real Redville, is going to become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract and Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up, all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that Real Redville has? It's also got the most in it. Get the Real Redville Plus at M4store.com.
Big Brother, mainstream media. Government cover-ups.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, I'm going to get into this huge Putin news right now and then go to your phone calls.
And the bullying of women that really win cycling championships and some huge dude with a gigantic testicles and tallywacker
tells him, no, I'm the winner. And then you call Lance Armstrong a cheat.
We're taking more testosterone and a do with testosterone is up against women that basically don't have testosterone.
They're ovaries produced like one-one-hundredth. His bones are twice as big. His heart's bigger. His muscles are bigger.
He can carry twice as much as they can.
Oh, I say I'm a girl. Let me play.
Sick. Bullying. Evil.
Unbelievable. Can you imagine if your daughter was, say, in wrestling and you go and they're in the ninth grade
and then some dude says they're a woman. It's like slamming your daughter around.
Oh, but it's women's freedom.
Meanwhile, McCron has come out. It's on newswars.com by Ben Warren.
Moms blast McCron's educated women don't have large families.
You know, not one member of the EU Supreme Council is unelected, but it runs things, has children.
And neither does McCron because he was at 13 having sex with his teacher in a pedo ring. It's admitted.
But he's a little boy then, so it's okay to get passed around with the rich women and men, reportedly.
Moms blast McCron's educated woman don't have large families comment.
Unpopular French president goes for broke.
French President Emmanuel McCron has blasted by mothers.
Worldwide we're saying perfectly educated women don't have to choose large families.
Yeah, you don't want high IQ people to have large families because the low IQ do.
So yeah, that's a good thing. McCron further doubled down.
That means lowers the global IQ done by McCron further doubled down his argument by likening large families to child marriage
during the late September comment given and the Bill and the Linda Gates Foundation event called Goalkeepers.
Oh, the goal. Lower global IQ, lower population.
And of course we've got new numbers out. The global sperm count is plunging and global population.
Fertility in the West is plunging. Their population control is working.
The birth rate in the United States has fallen to another all time record low.
Michael Shutter into the American dream.com. Most ordinary people don't have too much thought to population issues.
But for the elite, this is like a religion.
I heard about that in a film called in game.
It's all to be overwritten by Logan Paul and his new in game.
So there you go. But hey, there's a real way to reduce population if you really want to.
And that's called thermonuclear war toe to toe with the Ruskies.
I've been to the world's fair rodeo and Las Vegas.
But ain't nobody ever got the go codes yet.
The fact that we're getting these go codes means one thing.
A lot of friends and family are dead back home and they snuck attack us.
So this means toe to toe with the Ruskies.
Or the chai comms or whoever. Meanwhile, Russia is in a defensive ring.
They've cut defense spending. But up their nuclear arsenal.
Beyond the topo limbs.
Yes, we have large space based systems that will shoot most of it down.
But you won't stop the submarines with cruise missiles and Los Angeles and San Francisco and New York and Boston and Washington D.C.
and Chicago and Houston and Austin, Texas and Dallas, Texas and Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon.
And many others will be vaporized.
But that's OK. As long as it's the evil America getting hit, right?
The globalists are positioning us for Armageddon.
And how soon until they detonate some type of weapon and say the Russians did it.
And I don't lionize the Russians, but the Russians, I have to correct myself.
Because I was going off military numbers in a textbook that 20 million Russians died.
Now that was 20 million Russian troops died.
I was seeing a documentary a few weeks ago on History Channel and I looked it up and it was true.
I forgot about civilian deaths. It's between 12 and 18 million.
So if Russia was only something like 70 million then, just like Germany was, what's 20 million and let's say 15 million to be low level?
It could round down.
35 million.
That's more than half the Russian population dead at World War II.
So I don't take away from America or both my grandfathers and almost died in World War II with the Army Air Corps and the 600, 700,000 we lost, OK?
But the Russians lost 30 something million people and the Germans lost 21 million, it's estimated.
21 million dead.
It's very upfront in the Russian cosmology, in the Russian narrative, in the Russian family that, you know, most grandmas and grandpas.
I was reading about Putin, most of his family died in St. Petersburg.
And he saw a bunch of other starved to death.
So that's in the whole front sights. That's in the consciousness right now.
And so when Putin starts saying things like this, you know things are serious. Let's go ahead and roll the larger clip of what Putin just said hours ago. Here it is.
Russia does not have the concept of a preventive strike in its doctrine for using nuclear arms.
We only consider using it in response. That means that we are prepared to use nuclear weapons only when we have hard facts that a potential aggressor is striking on Russia, on Russian territory with nuclear weapons.
Now, this is no secret. We have prepared an early warning system. We have created it and we keep improving it.
The system analyzes globally worldwide where launches are being made, including oceanic surface. They identify where missiles are being launched from, secondly, their trajectory and the point of impact.
All this is being identified and analyzed within seconds. And so only if we identify through that system that missiles are being launched at us, only that will we deliver a retaliatory strike, a strike in response.
Only when there are missiles airborne being launched at Russia, of course, that would lead to a global disaster, to a nuclear catastrophe. But Russia cannot become its instigator or initiator because we don't have a preventive strike in our military doctrine.
Of course, once someone has launched nuclear missiles at us, it would be maybe too late to stop them, but a potential aggressor should know that there will be retaliation. And we will get to heaven as martyrs and our enemies will simply die as dogs because they won't even have time to redeem themselves.
Some of the press is laughing. It's not funny. We've cracked the atom. They did it over 120 years ago. We've already got more advanced acknowledged. We can do anything together.
Instead, there's an evil force that wants to lure global elites into Armageddon to kill out the population because Satan wants to kill, steal and destroy. It's not funny.
Now, we're going to go to break. I'm going to come back and write your phone calls. Tommy Robinson is set to pop in sometime in the next hour. He'll be home for two seconds, but your calls will be gone, too.
We'll talk to all of you. We look forward to speaking to you. As I said, it's important that you financially support us.
We're short.com. Plus, they're the best products you need them. But even more importantly is remember, without you word of mouth, more than ever, you've done a great job. We will not reach new people. If you want to stop Hillary and stop the globalist, your email in person, infowars.com, newswars.com.
Say, hey, you know it's demonized. You know it's attacked everywhere. Why do you think that is? Listen for yourself at infowars.com.
You are the ambassadors of the new Renaissance and to stop this nuclear war. You are the resistance.
This is the world's popular health trends on the planet, built with more than seven different super foods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarsstore.com.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically-studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients, these formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
We've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and spread the word about our articles and videos at infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We have huge sales at infowars.com right now, and we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce, and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, sorrow's the blood we'll spay when. This is InfoWars Darker Sour. With your support, I'm counting on you.
If you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
To start targeting, visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the InfoWars.com studios, you're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Live feed up on infowars.com, if you don't want to tune into the syndicated broadcast, I'll enjoy it.
Michael in Virginia, it's a truck.
It was recently in New York.
Comments on political ads,
I don't know what that means, but we'll find out.
Are giant techs running, replacing big government?
Yes, they are, Jim.
Let's go to Jim first,
because notice the globalists have said at Debo's
the last six years and other events,
we're technocracies, we're technocrats.
And we wanna appoint presidents,
and Bloomberg says a computer will decide
when you get beef, when you go to vacation.
It's turning you over to computers they program,
but they act like because it's that go-between, it's okay.
So that's a great point, Jim, give us your take on it.
Yes, sir, I must say that I have chills,
it's been a long time,
and I'm very happy that it takes so much
to be able to get a hold of you.
I'm not gonna be disgruntled when I call in,
I can't get a hold of you because I know
that means the word spreading.
So I'm really happy.
And first off, I do wanna say,
just try the silver, blue, two-faced,
fluoride, three-faced, it is the best,
you'll never want anything else.
Now, I think, I like that it looks like
that's what's happening, they're able to pack in
to anything in the military with all the back doors,
all the crap that's been made in China.
And I'm asking the question too,
who in the world thought it was a good idea
for anything military to be made in another country?
What's however, anything?
Well, that's the Trojan Horse is,
if you or I climbed over to military fence,
and waited until somebody didn't close the door right,
and we snuck in and grabbed just a random computer hard drive,
we would spend 20 years in prison and deserve it
because that's espionage.
But if the Chinese put chips in everything
and spy on us and it's all admitted, nothing happens.
And if Google does it, and if Twitter does it,
and Facebook does it particularly,
Apple, then it's all cute and fun
because we have traders throughout the government.
And Trump has done a great job getting in and being attacked
because they're so scared that he might clean them out.
But these people did this with a big raging heart on
to screw America over, because if you're a Tim Cook,
or you're a Jack Dorsey, or you're any of these guys,
if you can mount America's head on the wall,
that's the biggest bull out of what you're ever gonna get.
So as Pencil Johnson's, you understand,
they don't like us existing, and they hate military men.
And they wanna replace you with a robot
so they can command it.
They hate strength.
They don't see strength like you or I see other men
or women that are strong and powerful and good and virtuous
and think, good, our species is winning.
We feel strength through each other.
They see you, sir, and others having will and courage,
but the fact that you're not seeking power
as someone that must be destroyed.
And you're right.
Big Tech is the new corporate world government.
It is the technocracy, and it's sold out
to every monolithic power it can,
and it's just there savagely exploiting humanity.
Yes, sir.
You inspired me to start Justice Militia, M-U-L-I-S-H-A, okay?
And I just wanna let you know we've been
just seeing in, did a walk-up out there.
We've been out in the 3D world even before the,
just before the Info World Army started.
Our first video we made was at the Georgia Guidestones.
If you remember, we were in the Hillars
and there's some really sick stuff, man, kind of.
And we're going back to 27th.
On Saturday, we'll be there around 12-ish.
So anybody that's hearing us from Georgia or wherever,
you wanna come meet us out there?
27th is Saturday at 12, you know, around 12, we'll be there.
It's beautiful, brother.
And just anywhere you can legally and lawfully
get on the corporate notice
and expose that they're a fraud and a hoax is awesome.
God bless you.
Just like the MPC meme, it's a shimble
that exposes their robots, that they're programmed,
that they're authoritarians, they hate it.
Infowararmy.com, InfoWarsarmy.com.
But since you mentioned that,
you know, just pulling back and looking
at the waterfront of what we're dealing with,
if you've seen Conan the Barbarian, it's an excellent film.
They even tried to stop it being released
because they claimed it was fascist
because it was pro-western, whatever that means.
But Conan the Barbarian, Conan the Destroyer
is really cheesy and stupid.
But Conan the Barbarian, I think it's really a classic,
well-done film.
So to quote James Earl Jones playing the part
of the Tulsa Dome at his mountain of power.
He's sitting there talking to Conan the Barbarian
and he's talking about how he enslaved him as a child
and was looking for steel and worshiped steel
that explains to him, steel isn't strong boy, flesh is strong.
Take the arm that wields the sword, that is power.
Look at that young girl up there.
And he says, come to me, come to me my child.
She's mind controlled.
He's saying the steel is a side issue.
Control the mind, control the free will.
Come to me, come to me my child.
And then she jumps off the cliff.
Then we can pull the scene up.
Tulsa Dome, girl jumping off a cliff
or steel isn't strong boy, flesh is strong.
But I don't wanna agree with the evil sorcerer,
Tulsa Dome, but he's right.
But flesh isn't power when it's enslaved and controlled.
It's dangerous, but the real power is the flesh
and the soul turned loose, tied into God.
Then steel isn't strong.
So to quote with the James Earl Jones quote again,
just because they fit,
don't be too proud of this technological terror
you've constructed.
The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant
next to the power of the human soul,
the human will and creativity.
The globalists aren't on any mercy mission.
They're on more of a Cobra Commander mission
for total power, Cobra.
Now that we're getting into pop culture,
and that's who they are.
So be aware of that.
Flesh isn't strong boy.
Take your arm that wields it.
Take your arm that wields it.
Come to me.
Come to me, my child.
That girl up there.
We can get her to worship Hillary,
a child molesting devil worshiper.
We can make her jump off a cliff.
We can make her abort her children.
We can make her worship Satan.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park
or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SupermailVitality at infowarstore.com,
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day
to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water
to fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time
and the extended hours to still have the stamina
and endurance, energy and drive to get to the gym,
get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SupermailVitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you.
SupermailVitality.com
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Steal isn't strong, boy. Flesh is stronger. Look around you.
Drink the fluoride. That is power. That is strength.
Contemplate this on the tree of wool.
That is strength, boy. That is power. The strength and power of flesh.
What is steel compared to the hand that wields it?
Look at the strength of your body, the desire in your heart.
I gave you this. Such a waste.
No, you don't. He'll chop your head off later.
Contemplate this on the tree of wool.
Crucify him.
Steel isn't strong, boy. Flesh is strong.
That's a lie. The spirit that animates the flesh. That is the strength.
Powerful. So you globalists, you soulless people like Sundar, the barbarian and others,
you believe you're conquering us, but you are only testing us, and you and yours will be thrown to the asheeps of history.
Alright, Billy. Billy in South Carolina, thanks for holding good to hear from me. Go ahead.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir. Go ahead.
First, I really have to thank you. You've opened all of our eyes from 9-11 on down.
My question today is, if the red wave does happen due to you and all the dead votes...
It will not be because of me or because of you. Let's be a thousand percent.
For you, opening people like us our eyes and the dead votes being taken off and all the illegal votes being out,
it could literally be a humongous red wave. I'm wondering if that happens.
Are we now going to be a one-party country, and can't we just be American again?
Why do we have to be Democrat versus Republican all the time?
Do Democrats stop being against Trump and just be for America again?
Well, this is really one of the most important questions you could ask.
I've been thinking about this a lot lately, and I'm talking about it on some on air.
You have three branches of government. You have federal and state broken into two.
So most of the founders thought we need two parties to further divide things,
but then George Washington said that will become factionalism like gangs
and even said flags and colors when it should be all about the freedom of our country and our shared heritage.
And he said policies should be debated.
But this is the best thinking.
The Democrats hope to have the Republicans become a regional party of the South,
and then the Democrats will split into a Communist Party and then a Socialist Party.
What you're now seeing with Bernie Sanders setting up the Communist Party claiming he's a Socialist.
This is how they do it.
But instead they become a coastal elite party of elite rich people that own basically the slaves and the renters on the east and west coast.
They're not bad people. They're enslaved. We're coming to free them.
And so it looks like the Democrat Party is still going to split into two parties,
but on the east and west coast.
And then the Republican Party is becoming the new populist dominant party,
which the blue bloods tried to stop, which they failed.
So we had the plan with the Tea Party that Ron Paul, myself and others created that you created
to take over the Republican Party.
That plan succeeded because they thought they would take us over and brought the Trojan horse in.
I haven't said all this on air.
And Drugs promoted everybody else to it.
So Drugs gets the credit and you get the credit listeners.
It's not about giving credit. You need to know who did it. It's not about them for worse.
And so now we're at this crossroads. What do you think?
I just think a lot of times anything you say two weeks, two months, sometimes two years earlier comes true.
And it feels like if I follow the same path, it seems like a red wave is inevitable
unless the Democrats change their tactics and start making Democrats American again.
I don't know what's going to happen. I just I'm getting a little worried that.
No, no, I hear you. So let's talk a billy. Don't hang up.
But since I only heard it once yesterday, the massive election fraud they've caught all over Texas is confirmed.
Democrats with the names of dead people or folks in nursing homes voting will air that again when we come out of break
because it's so critical.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health,
eating and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate
paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil now available at infowarstore.com.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Women are accused of being part of a paid voter fraud ring in Tarrant County.
Tonight they face dozens of felony charges connected to mail-in ballots.
Jason Allen live in Fort Worth tonight and Jason, this goes back to the primary election in 2016.
Right Gilma, in that spring there were more than 16,000 ballots that were mailed in here to the Tarrant County Election Center.
Now investigators believe that for some of those ballots voters hadn't asked for them, they hadn't filled them out
and they didn't know that somebody else did.
While voters were picking presidential candidates at the polls in 2016,
ballots sent in by mail in Tarrant County had what investigators now believe were fraudulence, signatures and information.
It doesn't match up. This was an accepted ballot.
Political consultant Aaron Harris found a paper trail that he handed over to state investigators that helped lead to nearly 30 felony counts against four women.
The women including Letitia Sanchez and Letitia Tepechin are accused of requesting ballots for elderly voters,
forging signatures, filling those ballots out and mailing them in.
So the harvesters sit around and fill these out by the hundreds, often by the thousands.
Back in 2016, Governor Greg Abbott posted on Twitter about the fraud investigation in Tarrant County
and while the Attorney General's office referred to the indictments as part of a paid ring,
they would not comment on if there would be more charges to come.
Harris told us his own research has turned up many more people involved, but recognize the cases are difficult to prosecute.
And just because they may have only been indicted on one or ten or sixteen counts doesn't mean they don't have 200 counts,
but those are the only sixteen they can't be proven.
The indictment shows that, at least in these cases, many of the ballots involved were for Democratic candidates.
I talked to the Tarrant County Democratic Party chair tonight.
She had met one of the women who was involved but really didn't know the details of the case
and she also questioned the timing of these indictments just a few weeks before the November midterm elections.
His name is Jesus Christ.
infowars.com, newswars.com, taking your phone calls right now.
Billy, you're saying if red wave does happen and the Dems die out, what happens next?
Yes, sir.
I mean, I broke down the fact that the Democrats thought Republicans would become a regional party.
That was their dream.
They're becoming the regional party of the east and west coast,
literally where they have their renter slaves as they call them in the WikiLeaks.
We're not saying everybody on the east coast or west coast are enemies, they're great people.
They're just under this globalist control.
So we've got to think about trying to free them up and stopping the exodus of their own people into our cities
and not waking them up so that they become basically like spores or disease agents
of the globalist communist New World Order contagion.
But it's an incredible time to be alive right now because it's not just here.
All over the world, populist, nationalist, conservative, Christian, free market, anti-globalist candidates
are winning, winning, winning, winning.
So it is an amazing time to be alive.
All right.
I want to let other callers call in.
I'm really amazed I even got through.
I got one side questions, sort of unrelated, but I'm curious.
I hope you and Joe Rogan still stay boys.
I'm also wondering how you and Bill Cooper ever got off on the wrong foot, had a misunderstanding.
It seems like you guys would have also been really great friends if you had enough time to speak more.
So when you have time, you can speak on that if you'd like.
If not, just thank you.
Yeah, listen, listen.
I appreciate your call.
I've known Joe Rogan.
I met him like in 1998.
We became friends at 99.
He has got about the biggest thing on the internet now as a show.
He's the new Jimmy Carson.
And he invited me on his podcast like in February last year.
I went on.
It was the biggest podcast ever dead up until that point.
And still like the third biggest podcast he did.
And then about five weeks ago, he called me and he said, yeah, I'm going to get you off the end of September.
Probably.
And he said, I'll be in touch.
Really appreciate you.
All this other stuff.
And then I'm not really that worried about it.
I mean, I have my own broadcast to my own thing.
I mean, his average show is about 10 million viewers.
His big one's 20 million.
His top one's like mine, 40 something million.
I've done that quite a few times already.
So I'm not like puppy dog and had a big old T bone or something.
I want to reach people, but no response back after that.
And, and so it's just kind of, but I don't know whether he got told, don't have mom with the election or I don't know what's going on.
I know they tried to block the podcast when I was on there and he's afraid of the chaos.
I'm involved in her.
I don't know what the pressure is.
I said, Hey, do you want me to say I'm coming on?
He was, yeah, go ahead and announce it.
So I announced that I'm on the end of September.
And what I told Joe, even at that time, I said, what's weird is that I used to call you.
You called me back in a day or two.
But I'm all over your show.
It's the main topic.
I'm sure you're sick of that.
I like to set the record straddles and things, but the fact that I don't get a call back is what hurts.
I said, I don't need to come on your show.
Just call me back.
And that's the issue for me is, is the personal thing.
And that's what's very, very irritating, but I'm not upset about that.
It's fine with me.
I have my own platform.
It's like I'm desperately trying to get on air.
And they wanted me to do movies and discovery channel shows and history channel shows.
And I did like three history channel shows and a couple of discovery channel shows that I've done.
I've done it all.
I've turned it all down because it always becomes laborious and it's controlled.
And it's people like Joe Rogan's experience is podcast because it's not filter.
He doesn't tell you what to say.
He doesn't control what you do.
And it's real.
People like that live real thing.
Well, believe me, I got plenty of that in my shell.
The fact of trying to suppress me and keep me off of all these platforms like iTunes and Spotify and YouTube and Google where Joe dominates where I did dominate, but because I won the races.
And see, in the real world, when you win the Indy 500 or you get all and they shoot the champagne on you, then you never drive again.
Because see, I was driving a car and they didn't want the race and I beat him by like 20 laps.
It's like a rollerball where they're telling James Kahn like you've won too many championships.
Give up.
And he won't do it.
And that's pretty much what it's like.
I've got to be number one, damn it.
I'm already number one.
And it's the personal thing that gets to me that it's like a rope of dope.
We don't want Alex bitching about how, you know, your podcast has gone more establishment or whatever.
And so we're going to call Alex and tell him, oh, you'll be on and then just rope a dope through the election till it's over.
I mean, that's what it smells like.
I mean, at a gut level for this.
And it's just kind of like almost like I don't even want to go to it.
Like, if you ask me on now, I think I'm serious.
I think I might turn it down because who knows what it'll be at that point.
You know, it's almost like selling out at that point to go on something like that.
But I never turned down life stuff.
So once that I mean about 90% says I'll do it.
But, but, but worrying about it, like wondering, why does my friend never call me back down?
And then why does he say you're on and then I'm not on?
And then I forget what the, what was the other question the caller was asking?
What was the other question?
Listen, I didn't even know who William Cooper was.
I wasn't into UFOs.
I wasn't into stuff like that.
And then I got on air.
I was like a John Burt society type guy, Ron Paul type guy.
And then people would say, Hey, get William Cooper on Bobo.
So I got him on as a guest a few times, whatever.
I never even listened to shortwave radio except the like ham radio stuff of my uncle a few times.
So then once I got really popular on shortwave the internet, he was like, you know, I'm bad news and blah, blah, blah.
And I just ignored it.
And the first time somebody mailed me a tape, it's like Alex Jones was Ruby nipple bobbers and don't know what a nipple bobber was at that time.
Now I do.
And then he got killed at his house reportedly screaming at kids on his property and waving guns around.
Whatever really happened.
And then I then I listened to Bill Cooper and it was like incredible stuff about 9 11's coming and and like all this really smart stuff.
And I was like, God, I know this guy was this is smart.
Because a lot of what he did was really he was a great radio host, amazing atmosphere, almost maybe even as good as somebody like another late great art belt.
I mean, once he was dead and people were telling me like Jones ripped off William Cooper, you know, it's William Cooper.
So that's what I said.
Well, let me hear this guy.
I went and listened to archives of it because the internet was just getting ready to archives then.
And I was like, man, this guy's amazing.
So I think William Cooper was amazing.
I think he was a tortured soul, a veteran, highly decorated gunboat captain.
I learned all about him later.
But I'm my own guy and I do my own show and I'm not the UFO guy.
But I learned the media gave him attention for UFOs.
He didn't really cover that very much.
So he was a great guy, amazing.
And nothing but respect for William Cooper.
We'll be right back with straight ahead with your phone calls in FullWars.com, NewsWars.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media Outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Gene Company.
My blood pressure has normalized.
My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Get ready over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature, expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infostore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infostore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
To destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
One last breath before it blows.
Lock up your wife and children now.
And now you've got some company.
The funny thing is once they get there, like you've done it before, now you're alive.
But kills you is this stagnant, wimp society.
So choose your fate.
You've been dying since the day you were born. You know it's all been planned.
The fight of your life. It's all about.
They come to take your life onto the dead of night.
You see the four horsemen ride. So choose your fate.
Yeah!
Go to Bob and then Michael. Bob and the great state of Texas. You're on the air. Thanks for holding.
Excellent. Thank you, Alex. It is a pleasure to talk to you. I've been listening to you since my life.
But the person you really should be talking to, his name is Michael McKibbin. I don't know if you've ever heard of him.
Michael McKibbin?
Michael McKibbin. He is the CEO of Leader Technology. He's been fighting Facebook, Google, Apple, all of those tech giants.
Slow down real quick. CEO of what?
He's the CEO of Leader Technology.
We'll look into it.
Excellent. He's been fighting the tech giants for almost 20 years or at 20 years because they hired a very, very good lawyer.
And he was the mentor of a certain person you probably know. Her name is Hillary Clinton.
Her mentor for being an attorney was a patent attorney. His name was James P. Turner III.
He was also the guy who wrote all the intellectual property laws for the United States.
He took their technology, which allowed scalable social media and gave it to what's called the, well, not only DARPA, but gave it to the IBM Eclipse Foundation.
They gave it to Microsoft, Apple, Google.
Sure. I know DARPA developed it in the 60s and 70s. That's known. Incutel, Geospatial Group, NASA, all of it. Yeah.
Yes. Yes, sir. Yes.
And what happened was is that they took that and then spread it. And instead of using it as a tool to raise humanity, what you're always trying to do is...
Well, sure. It was supposed to be a tool for communication and it was supposed to be a tool to defeat the Soviet Union, but instead they're using it now as a tool of oppression.
Absolutely. Yes, sir. And Michael McKibben actually, he was one of the people...
Yeah. No, I've actually heard of Michael McKibben now that you said the name. Can we still... Do you get Michael McKibben on?
I can reach out to some people. I can reach out to Douglas Gabriel who also used to work for NSA and has been working doing research with him.
Well, sure. Anybody comes on and gets demonized because they want to shut down communication. But regardless, we should... I mean, look, one of the main inventors of the Internet.
It wasn't Al Gore. He's come out at MIT and said, we've got to stop this big tech-tech cover that is tyrannical as well.
So the good news is the original people that built this now say it's evil.
Absolutely. It is evil. It's for improvement. That's what they're using in the program.
Well, psychological warfare, exactly. It makes you depressed. It controls you.
Yes. Yes, sir. There's a way that President Trump could defeat the tech giants today with one signature.
Tell us. Please, tell us. Please, please, tell us. Does the president's listening?
Yes. It's called the Miller Act notice and he's been sent a copy. The Miller Act is for people that do government contract work and they haven't been paid.
It's like someone who works for a house or a plumber, but they haven't been paid.
They kind of put a lien on the house. This is the way that government contractors could be compensated.
So McKibben's attorneys have actually filed the Miller Act notice to be paid by the federal government for the technology that they stole and gave to all the tech giants.
If they did that, it would establish ownership, bypass the courts, and also make them liable for all of the licenses.
That's a great idea, and I've heard of that. Just the fact that big techs working with China to suppress their population, I'm not an authoritarian guy.
You ally with the worst authoritarians ever? I mean, I would support the president arresting every one of these people.
We have probable cause. We have overwhelming evidence. Arrest them, seize everything.
Like I saw seizures going on that Trump's sending people after some of these other corporations that have been involved in corruption.
And the media goes, Oh my God, it's terrible. You know, Trump says it's corrupt and they swatting them. No, that's what's going on.
These people are out of control. And so we need to move against them. God bless you, Bob. Put Bob on hold.
Daria, and Daria is a great producer. She's producing three shows right now. She used to get a helper.
So I'm telling Daria on air, get another great hard charging producer to hand these off to.
This caller is absolutely on target with what he's saying.
Okay, let's talk to Dominic and then Michael Ted Cruz signs being removed, social media banning info wars.
If you haven't seen it, which is a bunch of videos, but some of these out of Houston are like people becoming demon possessed.
We'll queue it up for the end of the segment. People won't believe it.
Like, I hate Ted Cruz. I mean, these people are out of control.
They've seen way too many Harry Potter movies. But Dominic, what's on your mind, my friend?
Alex, I just wanted to say thank you for everything you've done.
I met you 22 years ago. I was doing a big brothers big sisters commercials at the Austin access television.
And so I've always listened to you.
I just wanted to talk about all the signs that were being removed.
And I actually saw that happen in South Austin, where they had a bunch of Beto signs, removing Ted Cruz's and putting Beto signs up.
Oh yeah, these are authoritarians, man. They do not believe in speech.
Not at all. And the interesting thing, it's a small minority, like you stated.
I've seen all this come to pass. You know, and like I said, I met you so long ago, but I've always been a fan.
God bless you.
Well, God bless you too.
And, you know, I really wanted to just reach out to you and say, hey, you know, I'm really proud of everything you've done.
And, you know, I've sent your links to everybody I know.
There's 11 of us in my family and we all listen to you.
So my dad was a World War II guy. He was a desert rat and my brother served in Vietnam.
So we understand what you're doing and we know that it's easy for everyone to dispel what you're saying,
but they can't back it up with any kind of substantial fact.
And that's why they want to shut us down and that you're doing that word of mouth with your great family
and your ancestors that were in the North African War and all of that is beautiful.
And it's that power of you as the individual taking action that's defeating them.
You turn loose these throngs, the people that act like they're demon-possessed. So their operating system is hatred of humanity.
That's their uniform.
Oh, yeah. And I mean, I worked with Chuck Udresdy on what was originally, behold the pale horse, now, you know, revelations.
And so, you know, all these people that we've all run in the same circles and it's because we understand the fight.
We understand what we're, you know, standing up to.
And they'll cheat, they'll lie, they'll do anything to create a false narrative to get everybody out of the way
so they can move forward with their...
That's what they're doing. They're selfish, horrible people.
God bless you, Dominic. More straight ahead.
M4Wars.com, NewsWars.com.
Tomorrow's news today. They hope you don't spread those links.
Free shipping store wide right now. It's about to end.
Learn more now by going to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
M4Wars.com is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life as well as MycoZX
that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half. We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today in FullWarsLife.com.
Happy's can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
Happy's helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with Happy's from InfowarsStore.com.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing.
And Survival Shield X2 is the pure eye and eye. No one else has this from deep earth crystals between 7 to 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get. It's the good halogen.
But instead, they hammer you with the bad halogens, fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Biotrysilinium goes with it like a horse and carriage.
Silinium is an electrochemical. It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together. We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself. Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff. Filter your water. Yeah, find myself some water filters.
Best out there for the price. When I say it's the last run, I think it'll be six months or years until we get more.
I hope we get more. This is the last run it looks like. Survival Shield X2.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
As you've seen, the NPC meme has gone mega viral and it has actually sparked a new meme war.
And in fact, a meme challenge issued by Alex Jones today. That is the NPC meme challenge.
So naturally I had to get in on the fun and I had to have a submission for the NPC meme challenge.
So here is my submission for the NPC meme challenge. Guys, cue the music.
Don't let your life pass you by and weep not for the memories. Remember all the good times that we had.
I let them slip away from us when things got bad. How clearly I first saw you smiling in the sun.
I want to feel your warmth upon me. I want to be the one.
I will remember you. Will you remember me?
Don't let your life pass you by and weep not for the memories.
I will remember you.
Will you remember me?
Don't let your life pass you by and weep not for the memories.
Don't let your life pass you by and weep not for the memories.
We remember and raise awareness for all the lost NPC souls out there.
So there you go ladies and gentlemen, my contribution to the NPC meme war.
Should I start singing?
Oh, it's too good. We will remember Bernie. He is so NPC.
We raise awareness for all the NPCs out there because non-players are players too.
Don't let your meadow. I will remember you.
Seriously folks, we're raising awareness.
Will you remember me?
Don't let your life pass you by and weep not for the memories.
We honor all the lost NPCs that will never be able to break free of their NPC views.
Never be able to go into a different dimension because they're stuck in an infinite loop.
They are the non-player characters coming to a town near you in the form of a Trump protest.
Coming to a town near you in the form of a women's march.
Coming to a town near you in a resist cavadaw movement.
Coming to the latest Hollywood film on the stage of all the late night comedy shows.
We remember the lost NPCs stuck in an infinite loop of radical leftist ideology.
And weep not for the memories.
And we don't weep for the memories, but we do remember you.
Alright.
Will you remember me?
Here we go back into the loop.
We're back in the loop, guys.
Well, then tell me what it is.
I'm just asking you, what is an NPC?
I'm asking you what an NPC is.
I'm asking you a question, man.
You won't answer.
I've asked you nine times.
What is an NPC?
Can you answer the question, man?
You're a news guy, you're a reporter.
You.
Let's go to Michael calling in from Georgia.
Go ahead, Michael.
Hey, Ellen, how are you tonight?
Wide awake.
Good.
Hey, it's just the greatest country in the world.
Oh, I don't know.
You know, everyone basically risks their life to come here.
Hell, they're leaving gang rape just to get here.
But I don't know.
I guess that would, I guess that means it's pretty great, Michael.
You know, but you tell us that our government for 70 years has been
poisoning us with a campaign of fluorinated water.
They've created GMOs to make us weak and thick and fat.
They have actually created vaccines to make us all autistic and poisonous.
You tell us our boat is non, it's completely rigged.
Our election system has corrupt like a third world government,
like a banana republic.
You tell us that our government was beyond 9-11.
Our government was behind Sandy Hook.
Our government was behind Oklahoma City.
Our government was behind Boston bombing.
Then our government is evil.
And Democrats, you say are domestic terrorists.
Half of my neighborhood, you consider Democrats are domestic terrorists.
And this is the greatest country in the world.
You're damn right.
Oh, okay. Our government poisons us.
Where would you rather live?
Hold on, hold on.
This is a great conversation.
A, are you disagreeing with any of the things that I'm reporting that you're claiming here?
Well, absolutely.
Because the American Ditto Association, which I believe Alex's father's a member of,
says fluorination of water is one of the greatest things that's ever happened.
Really?
Point me to the scientific study that shows ingesting fluoride is good for dental hygiene.
Point me to that study, please.
Well, it's the American Ditto Association that says that look on their website.
Do you say our government sprays chemtrails in the air to poisonous?
Dude, so we have a corrupt government.
You're missing the point.
The concept of America and independence is what we love.
And that's what makes this country great.
Well, the country's great, but our government's policing us.
The government's great and they're actually...
Yeah, they're sold out to globalism.
They're sold out to eugenics.
That's what I'm trying to stop.
At least I can still try to stop it.
What about Saudi Arabia and Trump?
Do you believe they did $110 billion deal with them?
Yeah, I don't like it.
I don't like Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen.
I don't like Saudi Arabia being ahead of the UN rights commission when women don't have any rights.
I report on all of this.
Oh, but Trump's off for them.
He's in his back pocket.
They're in his back pocket.
You don't care about that?
I do?
What are you talking about?
I just said it right here.
What do you mean I don't care about it?
I report on it all the time.
Come on, come on, come on, baby.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
Come on, come on, come on.
So go to infowarstore.com and get Supermail Vitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of Supermail Vitality.
So I want you to experience Supermail Vitality before it's too late.
Please, the Supermail and you, the Supermail Vitality, go to infowarstore.com.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, infowarstore.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at infowarstore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Sorrel's the global spring win.
This is InfoWars Darker Tower.
With your support, I'm counting on you.
Superfoods and crucial compounds.
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients
such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, B-poly,
and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
Vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects
and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process,
we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix
that's loaded with high-quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home,
vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids and more.
Support supporting your body's needs in a great-tasting, natural and affordable drink mix
with Vitamin Mineral Fusion today, available at infowarstore.com.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
Thank you for watching this video.
