From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Last Friday, we broke the news that President Trump told Roger Stone and others that, barring
any new information, he was going to release JFK files by Thursday night.
He released about 95% of it, but 300 files roughly were kept back.
And that just adds to everybody's concern.
We're getting information from Gorka and others with connections to the White House
that they really fought Trump on this, the deep state did, and basically refused to do
it.
And we know there's been an ongoing rebellion in government.
And so the President tweeted out after this happened and after the media spun it that
he'd lied to the public saying he'd release everything, saying, no, they've put it into
some committee for review the next six months.
And I think that all of it will get released, hopefully.
But this is an example of how they're bucking the President.
There it is.
JFK files are being carefully released.
In the end, there will be great transparency.
It's my hope to just get about everything out of the public.
And it's my hope to get just about everything out of the public.
That's what he tweeted this morning.
Roger Stone's joining us in the next segment.
He obviously has a lot of intel on that.
And so do I.
I have been talking at length with one of the only White House sources left.
I'm just going to leave it at that.
And obviously our phones are all tapped by deep state.
And so has Roger.
Roger's been talking to other very big heavy hitters, including the President, obviously.
And separate from the JFK stuff we'll cover in the next segment.
The info I've got so important and so big, I'm not ready to put it out on here because
I need to really look at every angle of it.
Not just for everybody's safety, I think I'm going to have to go ahead and put it on here
today.
And then there's a whole other subject.
I'm going to leave it at that concerning Vegas that is real dangerous.
You talk about a hot potato, you talk about a hanger name with a pen pulled on it.
I just am speechless at this point because believe me, an entire FBI office wouldn't
know what to do in a few hours with just one of these issues I've got.
And by that, I mean, these are such big, complex things.
And we have so much credibility with people that actually are involved in and out of the
government that we get this intel just continually that is just bombshell.
And I'm just asking myself, how do I present all this properly when, say, news is like
trying to bail out a boat that's got a leak in it, and I'm trying to bail it out with
a teacup and it's just waters is pouring in.
The news is all completely over the top insane.
There is a national blackout martial law drill set to take place throughout October, late
October into November, simulating martial law if the left blows up the power plants or
the transformers.
We know they've been training for that and I had that info months ago, it didn't go public
with it on air, but now it's in the news.
I mean, there's just big stuff coming.
There's a civil war in this country.
The globalists don't tend to turn loose about a fight.
Stay with us.
We'll figure out how to present all this, but this is really important.
This week, the FBI released over 1,500 heavily redacted documents concerning the Sandy Hook
investigation.
In many cases, entire pages are redacted, but unredacted portions of the Sandy Hook
documents continue to support the narrative.
The 20-year-old shooter Adam Lanza was a lonely, tech-savvy, high school dropout and experienced
shooter with an interest in weapons, a functioning autistic with a personality disorder, and
a recluse who liked to play video games all day.
But there's one key update on page 41, a source told agents that Lanza, while in the 9th
grade, was visited at his home by either CIA or FBI agents after hacking a government
computer system.
The source said authorities told Nancy Lanza that if her son was that smart, he could have
a job with them someday.
Infowars has the documents.
Read them right now.
They're posted in their entirety at the article.
The FBI releases heavily redacted Sandy Hook investigation docs, Leanne McAdoo, Infowars.com.
I'm going to get to this later, not because it's about me, but because it's a total lie
and it's the anatomy of how they engage in frauds.
Raw Story News Week and others haven't known how to respond the last month, us being the
cutting edge folks breaking the main news about the official narrative of Vegas being
false.
So their new thing is to say that I say that nobody died there and that I am attacking
the victims through my listeners.
Total bull, but that's Raw Story.
That's News Week and that's just how they operate.
So that's coming up.
Speaking of Vegas, either today or tomorrow, we're looking to break the most hardcore smoking
gun information about Vegas yet and I'll just leave it at that.
Obviously we are a big media outlet.
People know we're independent.
They know we're fearless to the point of being pretty much crazy.
And I'll have to process this information today because it's been on our plate since
about 11 o'clock last night and then we're going to cover it once I decide what to do.
And I'm not complaining.
I just wish there was more time because I've got five different bombshell stories that
we're right in the middle of that I know are key.
We've got this martial law drill simulating the left knocking out the power grid.
They can't turn off the coal power systems and if they can't sabotage the economy, I
mean, that's what they're talking about doing.
And I didn't even get into this a month ago, a month and a half ago when I learned about
it from let's just say the shadow government or the folks that actually deal with it on
the ground, the military that's assigned to the FBI and assigned to these task forces.
They have picked up coordinated drilling going on all over the country with the left planning
to attack the power grid in November.
And I didn't put this on air because I don't want to give their own people ideas.
I'm going to put it in the news today.
They're going to simulate national power outages.
We're going to Roger Stone here in just a moment.
We've got Mattis basically signaling they're preparing to use nuclear weapons on the DMZ
as I told you they'll have to.
There's 100,000 pieces of artillery there aimed at Seoul.
So it's the only tactic.
And the head of the South Korean Defense Ministry, Song Yong-mu, said that we are going to need
offensive systems to neutralize this and Mattis replied understood and really that was all
choreographed and just signaled to the North they're going to use nuclear weapons on them.
So this is really escalating fast.
I'm going to get into that and I've got intel on that.
There's a lot of news breaking on the Kennedy assassination today with the KGB files coming
out that they believed Lyndon Johnson killed President Kennedy and was planning a false
flag to blame Russia.
We know part of that's true because Operation Northwoods was a similar plan killed by Kennedy.
We also have British newspaper received mystery call minutes before JFK assassination telling
him it was going to happen.
We've got all that.
But joining us is Roger Stone for the next few segments to discuss from his sources and
probably we predicted this not just last Friday but Sunday and Monday we said we think
they're going to black out a bunch of it.
The president can order it released but they've already blacked most of it out.
They've done this before.
Well, instead of doing that, what they've done with 2,000 plus pages they've released
the 3,000 is they just held back 300 files while they decide what to do.
And they just told the president you're violating national security if you do this and the word
I got is they just double crossed him last minute and didn't put it out.
The president doesn't want to look embarrassed.
CNN is acting like he reneged and double crossed everybody when he could have just done like
past presidents and said no, I'm not releasing it.
And so you're seeing deep state quicksand from my intel basically refuse in a mutinous
action to go along with the president.
It's just like Schumer said the intelligence agencies can have seven ways of Sunday to
get you and we've been seeing him leak on him.
He said it was the FBI director that did it and it turned out it was and it's just a
mess.
It's a civil war going on in the country.
We'll get Roger Stone's take on this briefly because I want to segue into some of the big
intel you've got.
I don't know how much of it you can get into now but it dovetails with mine about what's
really going on in the White House.
I know you tried to have a longer meeting with me this morning and I had to get off
the phone so we were unable to complete our decision process on this but this is really
important obviously.
So I've gotten overwhelmed at this point, Roger, just how crazy this has gotten.
The fog of war here but you agree with me this morning that the tide is turning.
We've had a really good 10 days.
The deep states, the corrupt elements of it are on the run.
First of all I think this is a graphic illustration of how quickly American politics and attitudes
towards everything can change in just 10 days.
Between the Uranium-1 bombshell that the Obama administration engaged in a cover-up
of effort by the Russians to get control of 20% of our Uranium output with big bribes
to the Clintons as part of it, followed by the revelations that Hillary and her people
paid for the Smear dossier in what you did in PPGate where they turned it to Smear Trump
by the way, $3 million of your tax dollars funneled to that operation through the FBI.
And now Trump taking a bold and I think courageous stand and releasing the documents only to
have the deep state do a rear-guard action where they're attempting to redact, censor,
hold back as much as they possibly can, essentially countermanding the president in defying the
will.
So your intel agrees with my intel and with Gorka as saying and Lou Dobbs, that's exactly
what happened.
No, there's no question, the guys in Langley are moving quickly to cover their assets.
They've got to clean these up quickly.
Why they didn't already have these redactions done?
Why they didn't already have?
Clearly they haven't sitting around for blackmail purposes.
They thought they would bluff him and he would never allow release of these.
As I reported at InfoWars, the intelligence agencies lobbied the president.
This was going to hurt them by revealing their methods, their sources, their operations.
It's nonsense.
They lied then.
They lie now.
That's what they don't want people to see.
The same people who undermined John F. Kennedy and liquidated him are the people trying to
take down our president.
And I want to be specific because that's even buried in the news that last minute they just
said, oh, last minute, let us hold this back.
There's not time.
Put it to this committee six months and just they made the decision.
So what's the headline on that?
CIA, deep state, does rearguard action, mutinies against Trump, refuses to release documents?
Until I can, they've only put out a small portion of what they have.
We have to review how much of it's just redacted, just blacked out.
Lee Harvey Oswald met with black at the black and they discussed that the next five paragraphs
are just blacked out by some bureaucrat.
It's most definitely an effort to nullify the law put in place by Congress and signed
by the president to let the people know what really happened.
And the good news, Alex, is that I was told they went to him and said, these 200 documents
can never be released.
We just don't have enough time to explain to you why.
And he said, good, put a time clock of six months on them and we'll look at them.
So he hasn't, he hasn't, he's attempting to keep his commitment.
I'm certainly, I am certain that no one has brought him the documents showing him the
redactions, but he'll look into that.
If they redacted these, if they censored them so much that they were mushed, that they were
useless for historians or researchers, the president will be able to see that.
Well, I think that's the process that's now going to happen in the next six months, where
they just take each page and dip it in black ink and that's just incredible that we're
53 years later and we already know the truth.
When we come back, Roger, I want to get into what we were discussing earlier as much as
you can, because I don't think we can sit on this information dealing with what's happening
inside the Trump White House.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology.
Bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm
and serve.
Lifesaving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org, that's libertyoncall.org.
Hello, Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother, get virtualshield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at virtualshield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
KatieArmor.com is your one-stop shop for the highest quality body armor, period.
Why would you go anywhere else?
Go to KatieArmor.com and get your body armor today while you still can.
Go to KatieArmor.com, that's C-A-T-I armor.com.
Pro Pure Water Filters, most trusted, most tested.
Right now you can save 25% on the Pro Pure Nomad Gravity System.
Visit and authorize Pro Pure Dealer for details, it's P-R-O-P-U-R.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfowarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican Farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press.
All the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
We're not just going to have to end the next week, the Brain Force Plus special 50% off.
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric,
chaga, mushroom, beef pollen, and more concentrate.
You talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey, and it's great
to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible.
My son is growing like a weed using it, it's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible.
It is amazing.
Infowarslife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this, we're the tip of the spear because
we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves, so don't think before what I'm doing, I want to thank
you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Olaan Labe T-shirt, you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the Infowar.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
Okay, some of this news, we're going to have to break in studio next week.
I may even get Roger here this weekend because we've got to really go over this entire model
of how they're planning to take out the president.
We have the blueprint, not that we've reverse engineered, we have it.
Okay, we know who the players are, it's gotten very clear now.
And the exact plan and the neocons working with the Democrats and the whole deal.
Now, it's not going well for them, but they're biding their time.
Roger's got a huge data dump, and you're going to get it exclusively here.
People say, oh, we don't care about the entry of the White House.
This is the entry of the ship of state trying to turn the Republic around.
And the whole world's watching this, and we see Catalonia declaring independence.
Spain declared martial law.
No rule, they're sending in federal troops.
There's just wild stuff happening everywhere.
DoD plans solar storm-based national blackout drill during Antifa protests in November.
And Antifa says they're planning terror attacks, then the media spins it and says, no, they're
not.
Just like what CNN says, yeah, the deep state's going to kill Trump.
And then they say, Jones is crazy.
His favorite conspiracy theory is that we're talking about Civil War or the 25th Amendment
or removing Trump, and then they, next hour, they promote it.
So it's a very weird tactic they've got where they prepare it in public, but then say they're
not doing it.
It's a military tactic, actually, you know, don't run, we are your friends.
Roger, obviously this is huge news.
What do you want to break now, just so folks coming up next week realize how accurate this
was, just like when we said, you know, months ago in April, no, the president's not going
to send in 100,000 troops into Syria and take out Damascus.
Even though his generals, McMaster, were saying they would on CNN three days later, the president
came out and said those exact words.
So you're about to do that yet again to let people know what's going on, dealing with
military activity in the White House.
Go ahead.
First of all, I think it's important to recognize exactly who General H.R. McMaster is.
Let's remember that McMaster was put in place on the recommendation of Jared Kushner, the
president's son-in-law, presumably his lovely wife, Ivanka, all federal employees, members
of this administration.
And he is formally worked for a think tank funded by the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller
Foundation, and George Soros, his connect, he's a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He wrote a book criticizing the Johnson administration's conduct of the war, where the generals were
lying to the president.
And some have taken that to believe that he is a non-Neocon, but he is Neocon through
and through.
He is bolstered internally by Dina Habib Powell, formerly of the Bush White House, and working
for the senator from Texas.
He is an ardent globalist and never a trooper.
And then, so McMaster is very close to both General Kelly and General Pettis.
And this is what we call about seven days in May group.
And they are, without any question, Neocons.
Let's remember that all three of them wanted to send 150,000 troops to Syria right after
the president ordered a strategic bombing there.
And you'll remember that the president very wisely narrowed the assault down, so it would
have some military value, and also to send a little message to the Chinese and the North
Koreans and the Iranians that Donald Trump is not the cream puff that Obama was.
And I think they got the message loud and clear.
But even then, he doesn't want to go intervene in these places, ineffectively.
And the president wisely said to their recommendation of 150,000 troops, not happening.
In any event, I have learned, you'll remember that the president announced that we would
continue our engagement in McMaster, but he would not be willing to say a number.
He dropped the number 9,000.
What he gave was Pettis the authority to send more than 9,000.
And then recently McMaster essentially gave the president a decision memo on 50,000 troops.
Alex, that would be our largest troop allotment ever to Afghanistan.
So rather than withdrawing, we would be expanding, inconsistent with Trumpism.
And I told the president, looked at it and said, what's this?
And he said, well, that's the number of troops we need for Afghanistan.
And the president said, we need to have a meeting on this.
We need to have a meeting on this.
And he wouldn't sign it.
So I mean, this is the kind of trickery, I assume McMaster thought he could sign as
the president.
This is the way the neocons, in fact, the Trump White House.
By the way, this is just bombshell because we broke three days before the president
word for word said, I'm pushing back, we're not invading Damascus, Hillary and Obama started
that war.
We're on the wrong side, we're taking on ISIS.
We broke that because obviously it came around from the president.
Now you're giving people the intel of what they tried to slip past him dealing with Afghanistan.
Recap that.
That's so important.
The president announced that he was going to allow us to keep troops in Afghanistan.
He would let General Pettis decide how many.
They hinted that it was around 9,000.
Then suddenly we have HR McMaster giving the president the document authorizing 50,000
troops.
Obviously no one had ever mentioned this to the president.
Obviously he understands it's too large an engagement.
We're supposed to be winding down there.
We're winding up.
And their argument is this, Mr. President, when we leave, everything will collapse.
It will all go to, and the problem is that will happen whether we leave tomorrow or
whether we leave 15 years from now.
What they're trying to do here won't work.
And this is the sleight of hand of the neocons.
And give people the date on this, I mean the time from when did this just happen?
This was within the last 10 days, I'm told.
The intrigue here in the Trump White House is extraordinary.
They're like trying to get their parents to sign the report card, kind of slipping it
over to them when they read the newspaper, not paying attention.
That's the level of just grasping and grabbing.
Let me give you some intel.
They have these shift teams that are CIA folks with Green Berets and others that have been
taken and put into private contractor positions.
And they're going around on hunter killer teams.
And of course that was in the news this week, but specifically it is Eric Prince's plan
but integrated with the Pentagon's plan, because the Pentagon, as you know, wants tens of thousands
more regular troops.
And so now, I guess Trump didn't want people to know the real plan, but they are launching
the operations with the paramilitary forces.
And so the CIA is running big teams inside the country.
Unbelievable, unbelievable.
So what do you make of all this?
Let me take a Marco Rubio moment.
Yes, you've got Larry and Jonathan out right now from talking 20 hours a day.
I'm really starting to lose my voice because I have been working with the media to try
to understand what's transpired here in the deep state effort to undermine the president's
order for full disclosure.
And this is just incredible.
Stay there and do a few more minutes.
I'm going to let you go because of your voice.
I want to look at the negatives that are here, but also the positives that we're winning
intellectually and the country's coming back economically.
But this could be a recovery that kill in the crib, so the fight is at a key moment
right now.
We've got to stay focused and hold steady and move forward on Alex Jones.
Hey, Daniel Bremen, why new manna of storable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong, independent families to endure what's ahead.
And we take this charge seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today, call 888-597-0-775, 888-597-0-775, online discounts available
at www.powerprepper.com, www.powerprepper.com.
In an emergency, you need a fire now, but what if the wood is wet?
No problem for insta fire.
Our non-toxic fire starter packs, lights wet wood, floats and can even burn on water
or in any weather.
Sustain's wins up to 30 miles per hour and each pouch weighs only 1.75 ounces.
Need an emergency or camp stove?
Get the insta fire inferno stove that boils 20 ounces of water in under three minutes
with controllable heat and temp from 425 to 1500 degrees, pre-shipping.
Go to insta fire.com and use discount code radio 30 at the three times for 30% off your
order.
Insta fire, fire in an instant.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto-ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarshore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto-ship because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the
products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarshore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto-ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto-ship feature at infowarshlife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on auto-ship.
Win, win, win at infowarshlife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super blue fluoride-free products.
Infowarshlife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and super
charged your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarshlife.com.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best
selling product, BrainForce.
Now BrainForce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle and we're now purchasing so much of
it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able
to get it for less, so I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could
offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is, a whole bunch
of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then BrainForce is for you and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at infowarshlife.com or simply call toll free, 888-253-3139.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
In the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
To really show you how fluid this is, last Friday the media said that Roger Stone and
I were wrong that the president was not going to release any of the JFK files that were
set to be released the next Thursday evening at midnight going into Friday morning.
And the next morning the president tweeted exactly what we'd said, what he told Roger,
that barring new information, he was looking at releasing them.
And then last minute he says, yeah, they're coming out today and they go, oh, we can't,
there's other stuff we found.
He goes, okay, you got six months, but they just did that as one more time.
And the president is about secrecy with military stuff, which is a smart thing to do.
You don't want to tell your enemies what you're going to do.
But this is 53 years ago, 91% of the American people in Gallup Bulls, believe there are
multiple shooters, anyone that's serious knows that, we even know what happened with JFK.
And so that's why this is so important.
I want to play this clip and then go back to Roger Stone.
This is Gorka who recently left the White House, one of the president's top advisors
says deep state withholding of JFK files stinks to high heaven.
And we've also got other clips here, again, where Lou Dobbs and others are saying this
is outrageous.
Here it is.
Joining us tonight, former strategist, deputy assistant to President Trump, now the chief
strategist for the Make America Great Again coalition, Dr. Sebastian Gorka, great to have
you here.
Thanks for having me, Lou.
It is quite a day in Washington, DC.
Let's start with the obvious, and that is the delay of these documents, which the president
told us that we were going to have today.
The law says we must have by midnight today, tonight, but which we will not have, instead
only about 2,500 of 35,000 overall documents, some of which have been under seal for 50,
imagine this, 54 years.
First things first, let's dispense with the fake news.
I was reading the Daily Mail on the way here that said, President Trump, you cover up with
JFK documents.
This has nothing to do with President Trump.
This is the FBI and the CIA requesting to be able to redact some of the documents.
To hell with them.
Well, yeah.
To hell with them.
Why should we, our president, any administration put up with two agencies that are over the
course of what would be now 25 years since some of these documents were sealed, they've
had 25 years to do the right thing, cover assets, change methods.
There's only two reasons that you would do that redaction right now.
The reasons are you protect active operations or you protect sources and methods.
Neither of those can be true 50 years later.
So what is it something embarrassing?
And we have seen in the last eight years, the rank politicization of both the bureau
and the CIA under Brennan.
So it really stinks to high health.
And again, I don't want to toot our horn here for breaking it last week.
But facts are facts, because they're always saying we're not credible.
Main Street Media does that because they lie for a living, unless it's a few pockets of
reality like Lou Dobbs, like you just heard, that they've got relegated over on Fox Business.
Even though he had higher ratings than anybody ever did on CNN, it just shows how crazy it
is.
But I digress.
That's exactly what we feared is that they would black it out because the president isn't
down there in the CIA running all this himself, just like I'm not running the shipping department
for our products.
That's a mile away from my other office.
And it's that's exactly what's happened.
And I guarantee you when it comes out in six months, they're going to dip each piece of
paper in big old buckets of black paint.
We'll have Lee Harvey Osmond Wald met with just like Roger Stone said.
So again, this is not the president's doing and we're not defending the president.
This is what we predicted what happened, Stone.
Interestingly enough, one of the things we learn in these documents is at least 40 journalists
were on the direct payroll of the CIA.
Oops.
That's one of the reasons they're fighting so furiously to hide this because they most
likely are paying journalists today.
Secondarily, here's their big problem.
The government, the official finding of the Warren Commission accepted by the U.S. government
is that Lee Harvey Oswald did not kill Kennedy as the agent of a foreign country.
That he was a nutty communist, but he wasn't working for the Russians.
Ergo, how can any of this have national security implications?
It's not possible.
You think about that little problem for them.
Beyond that, they are, I think, caught by surprise.
That explains the stories late last week that said you and I were wrong.
They had a leak.
They thought they were going to get him to release nothing.
They were surprised, I think, when he moved towards transparency.
Then they came back and they hard-cased him.
These 200 documents will kill agents on the ground, Mr. President, and he said, I need
six months to look at this.
I think he's skeptical of them.
Read it in his tweets.
He understood what the right thing to do here was.
I think it is crucial to recognize that what they don't want the voters to figure out,
the American people to figure out, is the same things they did then they are doing now,
lying, promulgating fake news.
By the way, these documents are incredible.
It's got mockingbird stuff in there, buying off all these newspapers, and it says, we
agree that the free press is essential, but we need to do this.
There they are putting out the talking points for the mainstream media, just like they still
do today.
They say it's disinfo that Anderson Cooper's CIA, the guy's a robber baron heir, I know
you know him, and he admittedly worked at the CIA.
It's like seeing in saying that the Nazi collaborator, George Soros, was never a Nazi collaborator.
He went on 60 minutes and said he was proud of it.
Now, Anderson Cooper has been on my international best dress list that I publish at Stone Cold
Truth and still are on sale every year for about four years, and I used to think he was
a relatively objective journalist, but he's got off the deep end so badly for the whole
Clinton-Obama narrative of things that I have really lost enormous respect for.
Wow.
Well, it's incredible that there is a lot of meat to what was released.
No wonder they didn't want any of this released, how they were owning TV journalists and print
journalists and controlling major newspapers, and how they were trying to shut down other
newspapers reporting on it.
I think this is a key thing.
There are several stories today that correctly say that among these documents are proof that
the KGB conducted their own extensive investigation into Kennedy's murder and concluded that it
was orchestrated by Lyndon Baines Johnson.
Now, that is all reflected in my book, The Man Who Killed Kennedy, The Case Against LBJ.
It's all meticulously reported, and it has now been confirmed by the federal documents.
By the way, you can go to Amazon.
You can go to Books of Million Barnes and Noble soon, if not now, on the InfoWars
channel.
That's how you're a best-selling author and researcher on that.
That's why we've got you on.
I want to get St. John on again to break this down.
We've only got about a minute left here.
Look, globalism's in trouble.
Countries are breaking away from it everywhere.
The economy's coming back.
We're having huge victories.
The deep states getting hurt, as it turns out, everything they said we'd done with the
Russians, they'd done.
I don't see how they survive this politically unless session still keeps being weak, and
we know the constellation of power in the White House, how the president is surrounded,
and believe it or not, I guess Kelly's not the worst that's in there, but it's just a
nightmare situation, and hopefully we'll be able to release soon the deep state plan to
remove Trump because he needs to get that blueprint specifically, and I know you have
that blueprint as well, but I know he's been warned of that blueprint, and so it's just
very dismaying.
You know, my sources tell me that at this point, the assistant attorney generals are
around Jeff Sessions, and particularly the de facto attorney general, Ron Rosenstein,
Hodel Sessions, but essentially make sure that nothing he orders happens.
He was never allowed to pick his own assistant attorney generals, and nobody around him is
a Trump loyalist.
These are all deep state people.
So he's a man in a tower, he's like Rapunzel, he's in charge of nothing.
Exactly, and he's got his own weird notions about marijuana, and aspect, forfeiture, and
so on, but he's not even in the play, at Rosenstein's point.
So he's a patriot, but he's like from somewhere from the 1940s, he's got a big, giant, police
state stripe down his back, and he's in La La Land.
Roger Stone will talk to you again soon.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for being with us.
That is exclusive info on the war, but we just broke down.
Let's set down 50,000 more troops.
More than 3,000 never-before-seen documents on the assassination of John F. Kennedy are
to be released by the National Archives October 26.
The still secret documents include more than 3,000 that have never been seen by the public,
and more than 30,000 that have been released previously, but with heavy redactions.
This means that thousands of formerly classified documents related to Kennedy's assassination
will be unveiled, JFK scholars cannot wait.
Longtime Trump advisor Roger Stone was on the Alex Jones show this week.
He said he spoke directly to the president and urged him to release all the documents.
However, Stone notes that the president is under tremendous pressure by the Central Intelligence
Agency to delay the release of the documents for another 25 years.
Stone said the issue is now transparency.
What is the government hiding at this point?
He believes the documents will show that JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald was trained, nurtured,
and put in place by the CIA, Leigh Ann McAdoo, Infowars.com.
Refresh your breath with Emerson Central's organic mouthwash.
Honor formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and
provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste.
Emerson Central's mouthwash is non-GMO certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals or
other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 varts water.
Emerson Central's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Emerson Central's.
Visit InfowarsStore.com to learn more at InfowarsStore.com.
Emerson is growing like a weed using it, it's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible,
it is amazing.
InfowarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this, we're the tip of the spear because
we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves, so don't thank me for what I'm doing, I want to thank
you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Lobby T-Shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear, again, visit InfowarsStore.com today and commit to helping
the Infowar.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Infowars Biome Defense
Probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Support your Biome Defense in ultra strength or regular strength at InfowarsLife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the
public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the Infowar.
You're lentlessly attacking the power structure, you're listening to Alex Jones.
I've been scanning over this morning the thousands of pages and looking at what's
been ferreted out by citizens online doing the research.
It's beautiful to see how when I woke up at 5 a.m. this morning couldn't go back to
sleep.
Honestly, there were just hundreds of huge stories that had broken about Hoover saying
cover it up, make it look like only Oswald did it, to the CIA controlling the media and
running a cover-up.
These are real documents that Trump ordered released.
I'm actually surprised this much came out now that I've had time to concentrate on it.
Can you imagine what's in the 200, first they were saying 300, now it's 200 files, can you
imagine what's in the 200 files that's worse than this?
We have this instant gratification society now where they've held all this back for
43, 53, excuse me, almost 54 years, coming up next month it'll be 54 years, wow.
And the president is doing what he said he would do and then the media spins it, oh,
he went back, he reneged.
He could find the cure to cancer and they'd complain about it.
And again, I'm not just here to defend the president, it's just a breath of fresh air
that he killed TPP and is going after political correctness and before I get into the real
martial law preparations that are going on by criminal elements of the deep state that
want to trigger an actual emergency and then come in in a pincer action as if they're trying
to stop the emergency, trying to stop the terror attacks, trying to stop the unrest and use
that to force the president out of office or use that as cover to assassinate.
And I've had that intel for a while but it's starting to break in the news so I'm going
to get to that next hour.
Let me hit political correctness here though first.
I've been saying for a decade that political correctness is about waging war on communication
and getting people to be afraid to talk to each other and ending true diversity and melting
pot and putting us all in little corporate controlled globalist groups like a prison.
And you have the feds and the globalists that are the warden and we're all basically
facing forces to our group, you can't have any cultural appropriation, you're not supposed
to be a cowboy or an Indian at the Halloween deal, you're supposed to just be a basket
case about what words you use.
Well, all over the western world they're saying we're not going to teach the classics
in English class because those were racist back then, Shakespeare, didn't know any slaves,
there weren't any slaves in England when he was alive except serfs, white slaves.
And it's just insane.
And at Yale and everywhere else they're calling it decolonization.
And so they're going to teach modern English and other languages.
Yeah, let's go to Yale so we don't learn the classics.
Well, Yale is extincting itself.
And then I've got stacks of news here today, Teddy Roosevelt statue attack because he must
be racist.
And then everyone apologizes that Ellen DeGeneres gets slammed on Twitter over sexist tweet
to Katy Perry because, you know, a woman can't tell another woman she's a good looking
or whatever.
It's just, they're making all that the crime while ignoring the pedophilia of the devil
worship and all the rest of it.
And then they got all these articles about men are hitting on women in the parliament
and it's wrong.
So again, they're extending that into Harvey Weinstein raping women reportedly.
That's what all this hype's about.
Meanwhile, though, Megan Kelly's ratings continue to tank, Megan Kelly ditch politics
for morning television.
Did she make a mistake?
The reason I raised that, did she make a mistake?
It's not something that even has to do with that.
She destroyed herself when she went from being a teleprompter reading info babe that poses
a conservative and uncloaked herself as a wannabe globalist bootlicker.
That's why she's failing people hate her sources ESPN heading for more painful layoffs as their
ratings continue to tank just like the NFL and they can't stop because it's a cult of
leftist control.
Time is cutting back again 50%.
After another cut of 40% two years ago, we're expanding their imploding.
That's why they're panicking.
The third answer is just wage war against intellectualism and wage war against Shakespeare
and wage war against all the other great classics.
It's amazing.
They are making real intellectual pursuit evil where people are like ignorant sabbages
afraid of books or afraid of history or afraid of big words.
This is their attack on the West.
The globalists do not want to inform general public so they are making people superstitious
about all forms of communication.
As Gorka has said Donald Trump is the kryptonite of political correctness.
We are the kryptonite standing up not being bullied wearing info wars t-shirts in public.
Doesn't just support the broadcast.
It's an act of defiance and you'll meet like minded people.
It's time to put info wars on your barn or on your car or at least a mola on lobby to
meet like minded people.
You've got a lot of other big specials that are running as well at infowarstore.com and
we need your financial support.
So whether it's fluoride free, high quality, toothpaste implanted and pregnant with silver
and iodine of the highest quality or whether it's anthroplex, talk about stamina, endurance,
energy, 50% off.
I want you to try it.
It's all there infowarslife.com, infowarstore.com or triple 8253-3139 but before I go any further
I just saw this old clip of John Wayne back in like 1976 and just what a real guy for
folks I knew that knew him behind the scenes, just a regular guy with a shirt all unbuttoned
out in the desert and he's just look I didn't get a lot of meals when I was growing up.
You don't hear me complaining about it and he's saying I love everybody no matter what
color you are but he goes it's a crutch to teach people their victims, ruins their lives
and then that's all they become is the victimology and I've got Clipstraw seeing it in other
places where they've got Don Lemon and others saying oh white's claim they're getting racially
attacked that's impossible.
Only blacks can be attacked and we own this.
You don't want to own being a victim.
You don't want to own having chips on your shoulder.
You don't want to own being a fool.
You want to come together.
Here is the Duke from the grave just telling it like it is and just looking at how ridiculous
it is.
They want to cut your legs off and put it correct as folks and give you a pair of crutches.
Here it is.
His patriotism has never wavered but today he's a little disillusioned with modern America.
We're being represented by men who are countowing to minorities where they can get votes and
I think it's bad for our country and I'm sad to see minorities make so much of themselves
as a hyphenated American.
I wish they'd all get to thinking that they're Americans as they should and as if luckily
been born here and couldn't be better off in any other place they shouldn't be so much
whining and belly aching.
In the late 60s and early 70s there was a period of considerable change.
Civil rights for blacks, equal rights for women.
Has this made America a better place?
I am saddened by the fact that although we were a matriarchy I think we will not be any
longer.
I think opening doors and tipping your hat to ladies is probably a thing of the past.
The forerunners of the women's liberation of today have taken that feeling away from
the average American man.
But what about the civil rights?
What about the civil rights?
Well we have 20 million blacks on this continent.
It was necessary to extend rights to them that perhaps for the first 199 years were denied
them in this free America.
I guess that they've had a pretty tough break but not quite as bad as you and your do-gooder
friends would have believed.
They live as well here as they live in any other country.
Over that 199 years true I think they do have a right to more rights but it isn't a thing
where the rest of the country should feel terribly guilty about anything because they
have had a better life here and their fathers and mothers and they would have had any place
else.
And I want to see them have everything.
I don't just walk and cry baby and say jeez I had to go without meals when I was 16 and
17 years old.
It's a terrible thing.
I don't think that you should look back and whine and belly ache or try to hold somebody
else guilty for everything.
John Wayne and notice what he said there.
General Kelly said we should put women on a pedestal and they said oh that's a horrible
crime.
No no no put women down down again we should put everybody on a pedestal humanity we should
respect ourselves but that's not what they want they want to break us up and they're
doing it they are slim they are scum they want to psychically rape everyone.
Vitamin mineral fusion visit m4slife.com to secure your chemist.
We have worked for years with our chemist and scientist to create the most powerful
and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at m4slife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of m4slife we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield
x2, super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're
funding the tip of the spear in the info war that's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral
fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the
day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide which is the largest particle size used and
we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products
to enhance your life.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's Friday.
I'm going to open the phones up at the bottom of the hour with the balance and the broadcast.
First time callers, long time callers, all I ask is you've got a good phone to get into
the JFK files to get into the DOD plan Solar Storm based National Blackout Drill during
Antifa protests in November that's tied in because it's believed they might actually
attack the grid that some of the things are training to do along with the Jihadis.
And then I've got a bunch of other news here that gets into what's happening in North Korea
and a lot of other fronts but I was just thinking during the break how Yale is basically saying
that the English language is racist.
What it is, it's the dominant world language that every other government is teaching their
people how to use so they're trying to hobble students and they're also trying to basically
put a ball and chain around them and just direct that when you go get a degree in English
that you don't study William Shakespeare.
Of course, if you read Shakespeare you'll be anti-establishment.
It's Renaissance literature that's super powerful, some of the best writing out there.
But I mean if they have their way they're going to ban Charles Dickens in fact they're
saying he's a bad guy because Charles Dickens is real sophisticated makes a lot of sense
it teaches you how the world works.
They don't want people to read Charles Dickinson because it's powerful, it'll make you want
to be a good person, it's classical liberal thinking, the counterfeit liberals just like
Glenn Beck would try to get me kicked off radio and try to get my affiliates taken away because
he was trying to absorb my audience, he was the pod person, the body snatcher, he needs
to get rid of the original to be the facsimile.
He didn't finish absorbing me, in fact he didn't even really get my pinky, such a phony
three dollar bill but that's what they're doing and they're trying to assimilate everything.
They are 180 degrees for Martin Luther King saying it's not about what color you are,
it's what you stand for, what you do and what you produce, that's Martin Luther King at
one point and then at the polar opposite 180 degrees the other way you've got the SJW
saying it's all about what group you are and who you are and by the way if you're a black
person don't wear a cowboy hat and if you're a white person don't, you know you got curly
hair don't grow it out long or whatever, it's insane, it's mental illness to tell you how
you're supposed to look and what you're supposed to do, that is a cult and I forgot all over
the country they've come out and said that trigonometry, calculus, algebra is white privilege
and so mathematics created by the Chinese and by the Sumerians and by the Greeks, everybody
created their own alphabets their own forms of math, that's racist and see I'm not joking
if you're a new listener and you think that's too far they didn't really do that, no that's
real, mathematics itself operates as whiteness, yeah I tell that to the Indian mathematicians,
that's crazy folks, there's nothing, I mean mathematics is simply equations to understand
how matter interacts and how to add things up, a cash register is not racist but again
this is the total mental illness and they mean business, they are just creating fruit
loop crazies at these college campuses and they know, now they're CNN, math is racist
and men and women being together it's inherently bad because there's some friction there
meanwhile, they don't want to talk about those dungeons where they got those kidnapped
little kids, that's who they are.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life, our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin, knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through
the night and achieve proper sleep, millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace, our
natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and
get the sleep you need, wake up refreshed and take on the day, info wars life wants to
bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an
affordable price, get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout, head
on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue, that's infowarslife.com.
I
cannot believe that during the break I'm actually having a straight face conversation with my
great crew about all these top engineers at top schools who are white, who are black,
who are women, who are, you name it, coming out and saying mathematics is racist, clocks
are racist, Shakespeare is racist because he lived in a time when colonialism was being
watched and I'm like what? I mean if one African tribe takes over the next African tribe,
that's colonialism. The idea of people expanding and things is just like it's a white thing,
is just unbelievable how these colleges literally give you a degree in mental illness now. University
of Illinois, one of the top engineering schools in the country and that perpetuates white
privilege. And now all over the country and colleges and in high schools and elementary
schools they're giving people good grades because well we have fuzzy math, I remember
hearing about fuzzy math 20 years ago and I thought they'll never really do that and
then the common core had two plus two equals five and then we got copies of real common
core where they're teaching first graders that two plus two can equal whatever you want
and letting you still have your grade as an A plus even though you missed half the questions.
I mean that is sabotage of humanity. Meanwhile, we've got the entire Russiagate narrative
coming out and it's worse than we thought with the Clintons and their entire group of
Democrats. I mean hundreds of prominent Democrats getting individually tens of millions from
the Russians. I mean the Russians were just wholesale buying the Democratic Party so of
course the Democrats get scared they go oh my gosh Trump's got in, he's about to get in,
what do we do? Just totally just start saying Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia. To the point
of I walked down the street in Austin and every 20th person I demonstrated it again
Monday. I walked around for an hour and every 20th person or so just as I predicted would
go FU and I heard a few go back to Russia's being screamed at me and people rolled on
their windows to scream FU traitor. I'd say how am I a traitor? Then go you know you Russian.
I mean you talk about mental patients folks. Hillary, we're now learning Democrats hundreds
of millions. From the Russians for Uranium One, payoffs, everything. Here's Paul Watson's
report on it. We're going to come back if the number starts taking some calls but here's
Paul Joseph Watson's powerful report BS Russian collusion narrative collapses. Here is the
PJW. So how's that Russian collusion narrative working out for you? It's completely collapsed.
Russian is colluding with Russia except Trump. Basically you've got the Podesta group, you've
got the Hillary campaign, you've got the DNC, you've got the FBI. Colluding with the Russians
to dig up dirt on your political opponents to try to influence an election is bad, right?
Really bad. I mean when Don Jr. met with that Russian lawyer, the media went nuts. That
was treason. Yes, treason. We're now beyond obstruction of justice in terms of what's
being investigated. This is moving into perjury, false statements, and even in a potentially
treason. Bordering on treason as well. The president himself is bordering on treason
because all of them have sought out damaging information about Hillary Clinton from the
Russians. This is the scariest thing I've seen in my life in politics. This is evidence
of willingness to commit collusion. He's saying, yes, I had the intent to collude. I went in,
I took the meeting, which by definition is colluding. A senior advisor and someone who
was in the top tier of the Trump campaign colluded. How did the media react to confirmation
that Hillary, the DNC and Obama's FBI colluded with Russia to fund the fake Trump Piscay
dossier and then lied about their involvement for a whole year while pointing the finger
at Trump for Russian collusion with no evidence? While that same establishment media helped
them promote the lauded fake Trump Piscay dossier. Well, how do you think they reacted?
They buried it. They downplayed it. Despite it being the biggest story of the day by far,
ABC devoted just 31 seconds to it at the end of a story about a separate issue. 31 seconds.
Compare that to their coverage of Trump Jr's meeting, which on the day it broke ran for
over 10 minutes. CNN took it down here while giving top billing to a far less important
story about WikiLeaks. How did the media react to the bombshell revelations about Hillary
Clinton and the Obama administration colluding with Russia in the uranium one scandal? Despite
it being the biggest story of the last week, CNN devoted an entire three minutes, 54 seconds
to it over the course of seven days. But hey, at least they did better than ABC, CBS or NBC,
who devoted no time to it whatsoever. Oh, but the media's not controlled. Oh, no. Keith
Olberman, who's been frothing at the mouth about Russia for the past year. Scum. Russian
scum is now triggered that Trump won't shut up about Russia. Oh, the sweet, sweet irony.
How did left wing pundits and celebs react to Trump Jr meeting the Russian lawyer? Joy
Reed, Nick Confessori, Alyssa Milano, Matthew Chapman, they all freaked out. Colluding with
the Russians to do opposition research was dreadful. Maybe even an imprisonable offense.
How did those very same people react to Hillary and the Dems colluding with the Russians to
do opposition research? Only the American media could make a scandal out of opposition
research. Let the party who has never peddled up her research cast the first stone. Honest
questions, does it matter who funded it? It's campaign research, isn't campaign research
normal? CNN GOP ruined the lives of scammed bets and identities that victims tonight media's
top story, Hillary Clinton did opposition research. So Trump Jr having some useless meeting
with a Russian lawyer, that's awful. The Democratic Party and the Clinton campaign
scheming with the FBI to collude with the Russians by producing a fake dossier to influence
the election. That's just fine. How did the media react when Trump tweeted a week ago
that Hillary, the FBI and the Democratic Party were probably behind the Piscay dossier?
CNN said he was floating conspiracy theories. CNN reporters ridiculed him. Never Trump has
said he was a disgrace. And yet, Trump has been proven completely right. He's totally
vindicated. Just like when they called him crazy for saying his campaign was wiretapped
and he was proven completely right about that too. So Hillary engaged in the dirtiest
of dirty tricks. Oh, by the way, we told you this whole Russian collusion narrative was
completely fake 10 months ago. So either Russia has suddenly launched a coordinated effort
to sabotage Western Democratic elections or the unpopular leaders of those countries
have suddenly launched a coordinated propaganda campaign to blame Russia for absolutely everything
to distract voters from their own failed policies. And at the end of it all, after all the hysteria,
all the pearl clutching, all the promises of impeachment, all the investigations, the
only real evidence of Russian collusion was that conducted by Obama's FBI, the DNC and
Hillary Clinton let that sink in. That's right. Everyone in the Democratic Party,
as they've been doing since they invaded Russia in 1917, Democratic Party, literally
out of New York and then funding out of London, sent 100,000 New Yorkers who were formerly
from Russia over to take over and set up what they couldn't get done here. Communism was
big in 1917 here. It was so dangerous, basically got outlawed for a while. And then they marched
back over and just took over Russia and started just slaughtering any Christians they could
get their hands on. So that's the bottom line of communism, folks. It is a liberal anti-Christian
anti-famovement that has always meant to do what it's now doing. Very, very powerful
information. The toll-free number to join us is 877-789-ALEX, 877-789-2539. Open phones
to get your take on all this big news we've been covering and coming up either towards
the end of the show or sometime tonight or tomorrow and a break really big. Vegas news
that is like a time bomb we're sitting on top of. So pray for us. And so much more straight
ahead, ladies and gentlemen. The year is 2017. I'm your host, Alex Jones. We'll be back
on the other side.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Katie Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market
and we've succeeded. With the release of our CQB technology, we now offer the most comfortable
concealable rifle threat body armor available. Things may look good now, but what if you
need added protection? Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com
and for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at catiarmor.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey Purified
Water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size, four
incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency. Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653, goberkey.com. Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature,
expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling
bows on the market at slingbow.com. Sling bow products are compact and models start from
just 1798. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself
and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of sling bow. A new frontier in archery and
truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you have the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can
help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing
as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NOTACS to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's
new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NOTACS.
That's 800-34-NOTACS or my website, danpilla.com.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why
is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's
harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism. Right now, with all the refugees
spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all
parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood. I recommend
doing the parasite plans at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today. It
just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, infowarslife.com. And folks, you can't lose
full of stuff that's great for your body, period. And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center. Thank you so much for all your work,
sir, on this great product.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotrue Selenium's
formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid
hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on for your mind.
Online we are living in incredible times right now. Undoubtedly, the left is the very same
left they were 100 years ago. If you go back to the New York Times and the Washington Post
in 1917, they were writing glowing reports of the wonderful Americans, Russian immigrants
who were many of them Jewish, who were getting as leftist on the ships to travel at the end
of World War I to go after the evil monarchy. They were like George Washington fighting
King George III. The corrupt czars, even though the czars had just fought on the US
British side in World War I in their weakened state, leftist powers in London and in New
York financed with hundreds of millions of dollars at that time including Stalin's famous
train of gold with 25 million dollars from the US Treasury shipped right in to Moscow.
And the minute they got control of Russia four years later because it took them that
time, every Christian they could get their hands on was sent to a slave camp or killed.
And it was so enjoyable for the left and they got to break up the family and reorganize
society and ban the churches and just do all the things they're trying to do here.
Isn't that just sweet? And that's a historical fact. So when you see a leftist at a university
or other places, they're cold-blooded folks. I learned this because I would have leftist
on as guest. I would have them here. Rob Dewsman in some of the meetings be at dinner with
people that claim they're just liberal. They say, listen, I like the fact that you don't
like the Republican establishment, but you libertarians better become libertarian socialists
because we're going to kill everybody on board when we take power. And you know, over the
years, covering communist meetings, reading their literature, seeing them on the street,
every time I've seen a group of communists out handing out literature or running a table,
they won't talk to you until your camera's off and they walk over. Old ladies, old men,
they'll go, we're going to kill you and everybody like you when we take control. You understand?
They look at you and they go, yeah, there's going to be blood. And they're always like
cockroaches, weak, ugly, stupid, hateful, but they got an instinct, boy, to get you in
a death camp and starve you to death with your family. They love it. I mean, they want
to kill you and your family. They want to murder all the police. They want to burn down success.
They want to just shut the churches down and they want everybody to have to bow down to
them. And under their system, you'll have maybe one pair of overalls with holes in it.
You're going to work 18 hours a day. You're going to go to all these little commie meetings
and have them over here running your life. You go read 1984. That's what Stalinism was
like. And George Arwell had been a communist. One of the leaders of the Fabian Socialist,
Eric Blair, he gave the entire list of the Communist Party before he died was probably
poisoned to death in 1948. He gave the entire list of the Communist, the government and
he said, you need to shut this down. They plan to end the family. They plan to dehumanize.
They plan to even end the act of sex between men and women using feminism. He said, it's
so horrible. I can't believe it. They were there. They're a priesthood of power who just
want to torture people to death. No, you go read that book, ladies and gentlemen, and
you understand Eric Blair was O'Brien and was Winston. He, he wore both those hats,
ladies and gentlemen. Eric Blair tortured people. Eric Blair killed people. Eric Blair,
you read that book. He's O'Brien and he's also Winston. And you want to know what the
communists want to do to you? They want to hurt humanity because it's a sick cuckolding.
It's the extreme of a guy that wants to watch 10 guys with his wife and have her tell him
he's pathetic while it happens. Now, some men are into that. Globalism is a satanic
death cult of people that want to feed on other people and hurt other people and have
strong men and women, the very best in society brainwashed under their control. And when
they're done with them, hang them up by their heels and torture them to death because they're
threatened by a big, strong, powerful man that's already done service to them. But when they're
through, just like the horse and animal farm that helped bring them to power, the pigs
that load him up on an ox cart and ship him to a glue factory. You could allegories in
what Orwell told you is what someone inside their system did. He worked for the empire
and was an imperial policeman and did bad things. So he became a communist thinking,
oh, that's the other side. I'll fix it being a communist. Then he found out it was even
worse. And then it was a dialectic. So there's no doubt you understand the average leftist
walking down the street is either a mindless idiot, a slave, but more and more of them,
they know they're little weak cowards, but they imagine them in their black uniforms
and they've got us in camps and they're beaten us and tortured us and they've got all this
everything's theirs and they're in charge of everything. Those people never put in charge.
They're the first ones to get wiped out. It's the 100th anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution.
They told you since the 80s that communism didn't exist anywhere in the world, even
though they now admit it's exploding on the rise. It's been quietly beavering away, calling
itself anti-fascist, just like they would do in the 1917. And then they just flood out
of their roach holes and they're planning to blow up transformers, to shoot cops and
to kill public figures starting November 4th. And that there's going to be this big overthrow
and you've got the Democratic Party pushing it and all these other subgroups and some of
them are useful and some of them know what they're part of, others don't, but you read
the socialist publications, the communist publications, they want a violent revolution.
That's the hallmark of what they do. And the little spoiled rotten millennials with their
slave phones made in China under that crony capitalist fascist regime, that's their model
and they just dream as little soft stupid spoiled rotten nobodies of the power they're
going to have in this big juicy bloodletting. Well, this is not 1917 Russia and I will assure
you that this is going to be their big defeat. I will assure you they've met their water
loop and I will assure you everything they think they're going to do to us is going to
happen to them.
It's a no brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN
listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come
up with a better way, the bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt
as ammunition, non-toxic and no batteries required, $39.95 plus shipping and handling.
Use discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase at bugassault.com. Fire your
flyswatter and get your bug assault today.
Prostagard formula does just that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants
that help give your body total support. It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene,
plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper. Prostagard is something that the
men on the Infowars crew take every day. And from our research, it's something that
men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going
at optimal levels. Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body. Get Prostagard
on your side today, exclusively at InfowarsLife.com. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials. We are proud
to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at InfowarsStore.com,
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, date-free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint
mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo and long-lasting natural deodorant. Emmerich's
Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body. We carefully select
pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA, made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life. Truly
feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality. Feel good
about using Emmerich's Essentials. Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and
your family to toxic ingredients. Visit InfowarsStore.com and learn more about the new Emmerich's
Essentials line of organic products. That's InfowarsStore.com.
You know someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes
to America it'll come in the name of liberalism.
Welcome to The War Room, the latest expansion in Infowars live broadcasting. We are live
weekdays from 3 to 6 PM central at Infowars.com slash show and this YouTube channel right
here that you've landed on. Please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications.
You can follow us on Twitter at War Room Show. We are going to have the most powerful guest,
the most powerful host. We'll be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking
your phone calls. The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too
long. The silent majority is no longer silent. This is The War Room.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
I am one of the most hated pro-western individuals in the world, simply because I've actually
studied the globalists and who they are and what they are. They are in open war against
reality, against creation, against common sense, against the family because they seek to dominate
and control. And it may seem crazy to see the left saying all math, clocks, science is
racist, literature is racist, ban everything, don't teach English anymore, it's racist.
Until you understand they are technicians that want to be cult leaders and they've got
to train you to accept the absurd. You always hear about cults wanting people to go along
with absurd ideas and things that don't make sense. You go, why do they have them do that?
Because they want you to pass a litmus test and show you'll do anything to get people
into a cult mentality so that you'll do more and more extreme things than they tell you
to including blowing yourself up as a suicide bomber. And Islam in its orthodox form is
a cult. The leftist movement is a cult and that's why it works so closely together. And
the acolytes of it keep believing they're going to get this heavenly future if they
just join it. I have known people that have told me, listen Alex, I can't handle the
reality of the new world order. I know it's true. I'm deciding to join the matrix and
just buy into it. And I'm going to go to wine houses and poetry things and just buy
into loving Hillary. And again, they just go to the poetry deals and drink wine and
then all just go, oh, we're intellectual, oh, we're intellectual and just repeat that
over and over again. Well, they're the opposite. It's a cult of not having to think and just
joining it and just, and then, oh, we have a job for you now. Oh, we're going to promote
you now. You just want to totally turn yourself over to this. But that's only for this season.
This is the end of humanity if the globalists are able to carry out their final technocracy
plan. And so when I'm telling cult members of the left is you're at the end of the line,
you are a schmuck, you are a sucker, you are a fool, involves a delusional thinking. And
what you're pushing is a takeover culture. It's an overwrite culture. It won't be the
operating system once the globalists get full control to be a very, very centralized, eugenics
based fascist model. And in the dialectic, I even see them using your extreme behavior
to actually bring in that fascist system of the dialectic. You are the fascism that will
trigger fascism under the name fascism, but a more orderly fascism to counter you. You
are morons, you are chumps, you are Marx, you are the prey, you are wrong, you have
been conned, you have been lied to. And I'm not saying that with pleasure to feel intellectually
superior to you, but you can't even talk on the street, you just scream F-U Russian.
I want to go to Steve, I want to go to Kevin, I want to go to Scott, AJ, Carlos, and many
many others. And what's happening is, just like when you see Keith Hubbard and everybody
else going Russian scum, the filthy, dirty, horrible, evil Russians and mass murderers
and they're the worst people on earth and they're the reason, I mean, that's Bill Maher,
that's all of them. They're doing it, they're doing it, invoking the most hardcore form
of racism. I mean, I mean, the Russians are a race of people.
In a culture, in a Christian country, colonized by the left in 1917, that halfway crawled
away with, you know, again, half its face torn off, and it's like trying to recuperate,
doesn't mean it's perfect, and the face suckers are up against the window just trying to get
in as fast as they can. George Soros is throwing everything he's got, 18 billion and bringing
down the U.S. I mean, it was just insane asylum. And the face suckers are just snapping their
teeth, just wanting into the room, just greedily going into complete psychotic ecstasy, but
they're going to run out of energy. They're going to fall down on the ground and basically
politically die, and that's happening. So right now, it's more like a temper tantrum.
A lot of the face suckers are on the ground just going, it was supposed to be ours, Christian
blood. They don't know what to do. We were supposed to be dominant. We're all a bunch
of globalist hunchback, crazy scum. What are we going to do? We want to have paint, but
the innocent's blood all over the walls. We want to orgy in their blood. We were promised
it by our God. We're not getting it quick enough.
I mean, you go to an Antifa event. They are the filthy, stupid, ugly, stinking piles of
trash, and they know they are and they like it. And they're going to kill you if they
get their hands around your neck because they're just a little frontline babies. Back in the
shadows is their mommies, big spider-like pigwomen, pig men. Go to a communist meeting. I mean,
you nasty, slimy, filthy, hateful people. They never buy each other anything. You all just
clutch. They've all got like apartment houses and money and banks is filled with cash. Flithering
around. They never pay taxes. They never just ever. And they attract all these chicken necks
and cowards to join them for the promise of power when you'll be nothing but tread grease
for the war engine's wheels. Just as I say this, there's search engine, everything I
say, and it's just left us men weak. And I wouldn't even say physically weak. Weak mentally.
Six times more likely to steal. What is it? Nine times more likely not to give a charity
or am I flipping the numbers? And again, there's this thing of the week to pull down the strong.
So first they convince the strong to let them run everything. And then you learn, no, they're
actually want to have a ritual of demasculating us. And it's all an existential exercise of
power. I promise we're going to your calls when we come back in the next segment to talk
about this in a lot more. But and I'm not knocking men that aren't big and muscular.
I think it's a statistical thing that that's the type of folks that they end up recruiting
to authoritarianism many times. It's larger than that. And the culture does this to people.
Most of the time, they're not even really evil at the grassroots level. They feel disempowered.
They've been made to be fearful and broken down. And then they're inducted into the communism,
into the authoritarianism, as if this will make you strong now, you've got to be nastier
than they are. But the ones controlling it are always devil worshipers. If you see communist
stickers on somebody's car and then you go in their house to do a repair job, I had several
repair jobs. I worked for an exterminator off and on for a year. I worked for a carpet
cleaning company. And you learn a lot on people's houses. And if you see communist stuff on
a car, you don't see communist stuff inside. You see devil worship. And that's who these
people are, folks. Potbellied pedophile devil worshipers. And all they want to do is run
you into the ground because they hate you existing. They hate the fact you're good.
They hate the fact you love God. They want to destroy you. Period. And they mean business.
So just remember that. And they hate me because I see them and I know them. Now, if you want
to fight back against these scum, we have a new limited edition t-shirt that we're only
selling for a month. We've taken the stupid antifas logo and redid it. That we're anti-socialism
and we're anti-fascism. And it's got the American flag and the Gadsden flag. It's really
powerful. It's in the t-shirt section of infowarstore.com or call toll three triple
eight two five three three one three nine, the anti-fascist, anti-communist shirt. I
am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars, biome defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first run to the public
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
This week the FBI released over 1500 heavily redacted documents concerning the Sandy Hook
investigation. In many cases entire pages are redacted but unredacted portions of the Sandy
Hook documents continue to support the narrative. 20 year old shooter Adam Lanza was a lonely
tech savvy high school dropout and experienced shooter with an interest in weapons, a functioning
autistic with a personality disorder and a recluse who liked to play video games all day.
But there's one key update on page 41 a source told agents that Lanza while in the 9th grade
was visited at his home by either CIA or FBI agents after hacking a government computer
system the source said authorities told Nancy Lanza that if her son was that smart he could
have a job with them someday. Infowars has the documents read them right now they're
posted in their entirety at the article. FBI releases heavily redacted Sandy Hook investigation
docs. Leanne McAdoo infowars.com. Now ladies and gentlemen we're running the biggest special
that we've ever had for our best selling product brain force now brain force plus there's 20%
more in each bottle and we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer
here in the United States we've been able to get it for less so I'm offering the first
time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month I'm going to have to
stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the
fans of it already you're stocking up they know how great it is a whole bunch of organic
natural healthy known new tropics and if you want good clean focused energy then brain
forces for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time it's a good deal at $39 it's
$19.96 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free triple 8253 3139 please listen carefully
because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you
get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you choose auto
ship before checkout we give you 10% off on your order at infowarsore.com number two you're
also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold
back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're giving you free shipping on all
orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget
to reorder the products that you need each month just go to infowarsore.com select your
favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send
you another order as you know I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature
at infowarslife.com this is a sure win 10% off on auto ship win win win at infowarslife.com
free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock
when you sign up for auto ship you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
all right callers I'm taking your calls starting here in a minute or two right through the
entire third hour today and then I guess into the fourth as well after I take about 30 minutes
of calls though I'm gonna try to just read like a hundred headlines here just to get
a smattering of how crazy all this is Hillary faces electric chair if charged in 1950s powerful
article up at news wars.com that's a powerful headline I think it was just Hillary would
face the electric chair if she got caught doing what she's done in the 50s that's right
they would Rosenberg her faster than your head could spin Rosenberg's were executed
for sharing US nuclear secrets with the Soviets Sebastian Gorka military analyst and former
top a to president Trump compared potential high crimes involving the Obama administration
DNC in Russia to those committed during the Cold War by the likes of Julius and Ethel
Rosenberg who were convicted of espionage and executed via electric chair giving their
communist cohorts in Russia the bomb just like I mean why not I mean they'd had family
and friends and other New Yorkers few decades before go over to help take over Russia and
carry out a good old jolly leftist extermination fun I mean this is left having fun there's
nothing like shipping whole villages did forced labor camps for 10 years and then you know
maybe 30% live and how dare the Rosenbergs get put that electric chair Hillary got the
same career selling out our secrets to foreign powers communist China you name it and of course
she's the globalist she's the enemy she's the one selling our country out so she points
her finger at me by name and the president and you the American people she says you're
idiots she says you're morons you voted for Trump because he you're a dupe of the Russians
yeah right oh I love the new pumpkins that are out but I think I'm gonna try to rip
that off everybody should use just every form of art to fight the globalist since the left
one's Halloween band now because they say people express themselves and wear costumes
they just want to run everything even though it's a cultic they don't like it but you
could have it like Hillary you know lock her up and you have a little pumpkin inside the
pumpkin and then you put up a little put up a little deal of bars like like like she's
in jail absolutely that's the way we communicate and let the thugs know we're gonna exercise
our free speech whether you like it or not briefly I'm going to start coming out not
with just limited edition t-shirts sometimes because that's our most popular is limited
edition run I'm gonna start coming out every month with a new t-shirt and then when the
month's gone the t-shirts gone it was real popular we may do another variant but it'll
be a limited edition these are super high quality we have the new one that is a anti-fascist
anti-globalist basically the anti-fa logo but changed with American flag and a Gadsden
flag with info wars dot com and American flag on the right arm and it is a limited deal
and three stickers come with it as well there's a matching three inch sticker for your car
or wherever that comes with it I'm gonna tell the shipping department in all t-shirts now
orders I'm gonna have 20 bumper stickers put in all orders so that you can bomb your
local area in a legal and awful way in the information war of course in public places
get the stickers up so the t-shirts and the bumper stickers are a big part of the info
war and just like we have auto ship for things like the supplements and coffee we're gonna
have a t-shirt of the month where you basically can cancel any time but where you get 30 to
50% off depending on the t-shirt when you order and then each month we just ship you
a new shirt and then you just cancel any time with one click of a mouse we haven't set that
up yet but but this is the first limited edition in the t-shirt club and we've got hundreds
of t-shirts there and a lot of them are about to sell out trump 2020 hillary 2017 I'm not
gonna make any more of those that's limited edition we've got the winner style hoodies
join or die info wars life dot com three final the supplements info or store dot com is the
umbrella site and a bunch of the cnn shirts are limited edition they're all selling out
whatever you do get your colloidal silver 50% off your anthraplex 50% off your winter
70% off we've never had winter 70% off but it's a really high quality product it's a
bestseller and anthraplex is amazing especially the dry form of supermobile vitality so try
that out today and we've got anthraplex with brain force plus that 50% off right now you
can't get it by itself for that but together you can so again a lot of specials info or
store dot com we're not funded by george soros the globals were funded by you sign up for
auto ship additional 10% off on the toothpaste on the mouthwash on all of it on caveman
you name it and you will get additional 10% off free shipping all orders $50 or more
okay let's start on your phone calls and now I'll go some quicker as we go on to the next
hour Carlos and Montreal Scott and Maryland AJ and Ohio Stephen and Montana jeffrey and
Tennessee cabinet in florida who's been holding the longest here let's talk to Carlos and
montreal canada thanks for holding thank you alex just a comment when president uh...
trump said that there was nothing he could do this was a very meaningful phrase to me
because as you know we analyze on a semantic uh... phrases and white people say the things
they say and it's not something that he would have said uh... for legal reasons or constitutional
reasons because they're not essentially i believe it's because uh... the people that
are going to be mentioned in in in those uh... documents are alive today and one in particular
is uh... george herbert walker bush and his relationship uh... with the canada association
is one that i happen to have come across a long time ago but on a different track altogether
i was actually looking at uh... charles the gold some relationship in Quebec and what
was happening here and it it turns out that uh... uh... agents of uh... french agents
were actually operating uh... in texas in the in the uh... fort worth uh... midland
Dallas area to talk about the jackal it well in particular uh... spelled by the name of
michael uh... merits who was uh... uh... an assassin for the barbouzes of uh... you know
the algerian uh... at the source with the goal and in particular heat this this fellow
uh... actually was seen photograph with uh... with uh... people like uh... uh... i'm trying
to recall specific here's what goes on when you get something like killing a president
you get a bunch of groups mafia together foreign governments and then a bunch of people take
parts of everyone's involved in implicated it's like julia caesar everybody's got stabbed
to prove they're in the club and so that's why oklahoma city they didn't just have foundation
u.s. foundations in the fb on the a tf there they had german intelligence and others helping
plant the bombs so that so that because you know the germans are run by a leftist operation
as well to blame the right wing so that they were all wouldn't tattle on each other so
you know it's kind of pedophiles you know you gotta rate kids together to be in the club
and so that's what they're doing there but in particular there is a relationship that
i discovered which was troubling and that is uh... an agent uh... known to the french
agents uh... george demoran shield who was in the oil business closely associated with
george herbert walker but i mean george herbert walker bush became the head of the cia agent
a few years later he was there using the family businesses cutouts an offshore drilling rigs
and an operation mongoose and all of it and he's in fb i files uh... with jagger hoover
uh... with the assassination so of course that's that those are the names uh... reportedly
that are in the files and it shows how real these files are uh... that they held him back
just look at what they've already released it's pretty bombshell
yes but george uh... but but george demoran shield was that the fellow that introduced
oswald got him the job in the in the repository building yes this is very troubling because
this individual later on was one of the most uh... uh... interviewed uh... during the
commissions and inquiries and when he was supposed to testify in the seventies he killed
himself listen listen they had trees and signs all over texas and in texas it was the
day they killed him there was people high-fiving themselves in downtown austin and dallas in
places so i mean everybody knew i'm here in texas okay so i mean i've been on airplanes
with well-known politicians where they're just bragging about it so i mean uh... lbj told
us mistress tonight before i told i mean look look who they had in dallas uh... the night
before nixon all the big wicks were here in a big mafia commission to go ahead because
they'd they'd gotten scared and backed off in chicago and in miami and uh... the the
the teams had just refused to kill the president but texas came through and that's what happened
and you're absolutely right those people were all involved and for running part of the operation
george overwalker bush was promoted to the head of the cia out of nowhere for helping
carry out the operation to kill john f kennedy statements
we've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that god gave us your mother nature
to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing z shield toxic metal and chemical defense
support it's made in the u.s.a. it's filled with known compounds from nature that are
absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war it is a
classical 360 when this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year
and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as
you can possibly get you want yourself you want your family and you owe it to the future
of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused
as you can be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those brush fires the
next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your
prayers together we're changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z
shield info wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to secure
your chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and sciences to create the most
powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink
mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals
and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we've
brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and
so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed
for maximize effects this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products
and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant
derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure
and rest secure you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars
life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out you're listening
to the alex jones show the world is a dangerous place not because of evil but because of those
who look on and do nothing from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
i'm taking your phone call thanks for holding scott a.j. steve jeffrey kevin others let's
go to scott in maryland right now you're on the air worldwide go ahead hey thanks alex
i wanted to talk about car culture and how it's uniquely america yes go ahead hear me
all right what's perfect is that it's who we are we're we're builders i still remember
when i was a kid and i'd go out and help my dad be building old car out in the garage
and we have these battery operated cars and you can only if you pull up the tesla site
it's right there on their site where it's only on three major highways where you can
charge your car so it comes back to your endgame idea of them trying to keep us within certain
places and if they they know they've lost a gun control battle and so now they're trying
to take our cars and keep us within one spot no you're right cars are uniquely americana
it's about openness it's about the freedom and they demonize it is sprawl and they want
to take it away even though electric cars use more energy hurt the environment more
it's hard to distribute the power they don't care because it limits where you can go and
what you can do and they want to remove humans from being able to take care of themselves
from the land from being tinkerers from being engineers from knowing how to work or operate
anything that's why they made the cars and things so so so impossible to work on that
even shops can't work on them now you've got to quote go to the dealer and then suddenly
the price you know it's three four five times what it was so yes everything is about controlled
contained environments google's announcing they're going to build bubble cities they'll
be given tax exemption where they're literally glass indomed building after building with
a little bubble trolls only hang around in there and then you're only accepted into a
google bubble if you're a leftist globalist so they're going to be all in their own little
their their own little reservations their own little false realities and google already
does that with its search results they admit it all and again with these ai drivers coming
in now they're even taking the ability for you to drive away from so you can't even go
or search or already with obama care computers filled with insurance company actuaries and
bioethics board eugenics templates run by the literal thomas watson computers named
after a top nazi decides what troops get health care who gets surgeries that's now coming
in where the pediatricians everybody are just robots that follow up the computer tells them
i mean it is just amazing we're already under ai control to a great extent we're already
under computer automated command and control and it's just they're trying to take everything
away from us and just dehumanize us even further with it they are the scum of the earth
they are just absolute trash and they they say they are and people just have to totally
break with the globalist totally break with their whole planned operas zeitgeist crap
because it's not like what we're doing is perfect but we know that these are literal
spiders that are trying to get us to tie ourselves up in webs and present our bellies to them
so they can hiss around and hop around and and basically have power over us it's all
about satanic fallen vampire like goblin creatures having their way over us without a doubt alex
without a doubt they mean business buddy they mean business and they do now god bless you
i appreciate your call i mean listen everybody should get old cars keep old cars even got
new ones everybody should get back into tinkering get back into gardening get back into gunsmithing
get back into just getting outside you do that you break the vampires backs invite your
neighbors over for barbecue you know go for a hike the journey of a thousand miles starts
with a single step my friend i appreciate you remember you never see the goblins out
in the woods these are cave dwellers they just slop around just hide in corners so they
can hop out and get and they know you've got morals so they guilt you like caw the jungle
book ah come into the shadows don't be mean i'm your friend oh yes let me wrap around
you good more than 3000 never before seen documents on the assassination of john f kennedy are
to be released by the national archives october 26th the still secret documents include more
than 3000 that have never been seen by the public and more than 30 000 that have been
released previously but with heavy redactions this means that thousands of formally classified
documents related to kennedy's assassination will be unveiled jfk scholars cannot wait
long time trump advisor roger stone was on the alex jones show this week he said he spoke
directly to the president and urged him to release all the documents however stone notes
that the president is under tremendous pressure by the central intelligence agency to delay
the release of the documents for another 25 years stone said the issue is now transparency
what is the government hiding at this point he believes the documents will show that jfk
assassin lee harvey oswald was trained nurtured and put in place by the cia neon mackadoo
info wars dot com hello this is hank hill and i'm telling you what you need to listen
to alex jones info wars dot com live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex
jones we're now into hour number three i've got science and tech news i want to hit world
news i want to the whole winestein thing is just exploding you've got yale saying ban
english basically it's racist i mean it's all happening total mental illness total takeover
that north korea news but right now i want to continue with your phone calls i want to
go right to your phone calls i'm surprised some callers haven't brought up how the whole
russian narrative is completely collapsed and then boomerang back and then mainstream
media is trying to ignore it it's just crazy but again the left is the outside globalist
force so they the social engineers want to tell you that you are with the outside force
to turn you into the enemy it's really amazingly simple but it applied enough and and and pushed
enough and bullied enough they think you're going to finally roll over to them but hen
pecking only works if you're half awake or asleep it doesn't work when you're aware of
it all it does is irritate you and get you more agitated and more awake and now the grasping
scum is so upset all of the major combines all the major media all the major hollywood
outlets all the major sports groups that are just nothing but vehicles to push a globalist
crap are falling apart espn's laying off now it's up like half their employees the last
two layoffs time ink is laying off half their employees after they laid off close to half
of years ago i mean it's beautiful to watch you filthy lying scum out on your traitorous
butts on the streets so just write more hate more garbage just try to hold back america
try to hold back the jobs try to destroy the christians try to get race war going because
the thinking people know you are the most lowdown slimy evil people the world's ever
seen and you hate us and don't you worry we just want to get you off our back we don't
even hate you trash we're just going away from you and you're going to be left all
alone with your own kind your vampire trash you nobody's you little chickenette spiritually
dead losers you think you're going to take us with you never never never you didn't
break our will you only ignited our will and i've sworn on the altar of god eternal resistance
over every mind of tyranny over the mind of humanity i have sworn on the altar of god
eternal resistance to every form of tyranny over the mind of man to quote thomas jefferson
i mean can you imagine taking communion with the globalist could you imagine being anti-human
and wanting to screw people over and getting off on the fact that you know the fluoride
and the vaccines lower iq's together by 30 points and you look at how you've devastated
the public and you find out leftist controllers all filter their water and never take vaccines
look into it and you just sit back and it is just mind blowing that they love walking
around and seeing how hurt you are they get they it's their power they're going to brain
damage you they're going to steal your mind and they're going to rule you know you're
not trash and of course they howl back we've already killed hundreds of millions we've
already are diseased many more and we're putting cancer viruses in and look how many we already
got oh i know you already got a lot of people but your time's running out so you sit there
and you you punch over and hoard all the brain dead people you got all the victims and you
just sit there and you enjoy them while you're eating them spiritually but know this you
are going to go in that wood chipper you are going to go you're going to go into the hell
you created you understand that you understand that you're going to get it everything you
did to those kids you're getting a trillion times you understand you're going to get
it you're going to be with your kind forever you imagine being in a spiritual system divorced
from god that's hell separate no need to add the fire you are literal gates of hell trying
to destroy everything i mean that's who they are and i know i harp on this more and more
it's just it's my own it's my own understanding it's not just the top globalists that want
to kill everybody just because they're so satanic and so evil the average minion now
through the screen time through the brainwashing you're either getting more awake or more into
this stuff and their people now are like zombies i go out i've shown you the video and they
can't talk and they all look like zombies and they all look like this if you're a radio
listener i try to describe it's like a racist and that's the minions the minions don't even
like know who they are and are just like like their souls gone and they just can't even talk
you're like you hit me you're the bad thing and then the controllers are kind of i mean
that's what it's like whoa these are some freaks man i mean they're inherently evil that's
what i'm telling you and they know they are they will tell you they are they can be women
in business suits or it can be women in anti-fuck outfits i've got them at the state capitol
and i've got them on the ground in austin different groups and they all have the same
they start smiling and the women start licking their lips and it's a spirit they go i kill
my kids and i love satan and i'm gonna make myself ugly and i stink and i'm gonna pull
down women yeah and you're like it's a demon going you're like wow and then you walk around
the street there's another one another woman goes hi we're gonna destroy everything you
can't stop us you're like what the what's going on man they got space aliens paratrooping
out of some other dimension into these people's brains i don't know i'm not saying that but
we've all experienced it they are dialed in man they're not home and it's like a video
game it's like okay i know that model and and and even how they're looking okay and
then they'll spell what you know they're gonna spell just how they look you know what what
it says talk about profiling and man in seattle they were dialed in and they were like pull
a string and and and you know they say these these insults and they jibber and they hop
around and i mean all their missions green tails in fact can we get the chirping goblin
audio actually the one that has the cussing blade and the one with a golf cart because
i want to play chirping goblin we come back don't go to your calls it's i'm not trying
to put the people down they're gone they're gone and they're slaves too you could invite
i and i i tried to get that goblin on and he refused to come on i even offered a money
he wouldn't come on because it's like he can't the spirit won't let him those guys those
kind of guys can't even talk okay until they like get activated they go i mean until you're
like whoa whoa i'm telling you man something's going on here and everybody's really noticing
and it's like people are acting like demons and you realize that's who they are god almighty
god almighty i'm gonna go to break and come back and go right to your calls but just look
at this article and i see these things every day this is not a roiders because see there's
such a thing as traveling murderers who is the famous guy from mexico that killed like
30 something people that they know of probably killed 100 more they may be the biggest serial
killer in us history and they just kept releasing him even though he was known to commit murders
well you're hispanic so you're allowed to go does that be you know be racist if we kept
a serial killer in jail who actually mainly kills hispanics and it says pakistan migrant
he's just a migrant wanted for 70 murders rest of the border they think there's hundreds
more he's called the butcher maybe they can rehabilitate him stay with us
if you are receiving this transmission you are in the resistance it's alice johns
heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes
and drops or circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you
that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands
of people's lives across america my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally
improved everyone is telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone
how much healthier i feel i recommend heart and body extract to everyone anybody over
40 in the north american continent should be using this product as a preventative to
keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two months supply today by calling 866
295 5305 that's 866 295 5305 or order online hbextract.com heart and body extract 866 295
5305 or hbextract.com in an emergency you need a fire now but what if the wood is wet
no problem for insta fire our non-toxic fire starter packs lights wet wood floats and can
even burn on water or in any weather sustains winds up to 30 miles per hour and each pouch
weighs only 1.75 ounces need an emergency or camp stove get the insta fire inferno stove
that boil 20 ounces of water in under three minutes with controllable heat and 10th from
425 to 1500 degrees free shipping go to insta fire.com and use discount code radio 30 at
the three times for 30 percent off your order insta fire fire in an instance dr caroline
dean wants you to have a free chapter of her new book the magnesium miracle second edition
and it's available at magmiracle.com in your free chapter dr caroline dean explains how
magnesium is essential to support the structure and function and overall health of your body
your free chapter is your guide to learn how to support your heart bone metabolic lung
and mental health with this powerful mineral the magnesium miracle second edition is available
on amazon but right now get a free chapter at magmiracle.com spelt magmiracle.com refresh
your breath with emeryxistentials organic mouthwash honor formula is made from organic
herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding
a pleasant refreshing taste emeryxistentials mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made
without alcohol chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors fragrances or
dyes the pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath this antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated
formula you will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water emeryxistentials mouthwash
is a great addition to your daily brushing routine it is effective yet gentle enough
to the most sensitive gums and canker sores go organic today with emeryxistentials visit
infowarstore.com to learn more that's infowarstore.com we're not just going to have to end in the
next week the brain force plus special 50% off I'm going to have to end even sooner our
caveman ultimate paleo bone broth turmeric chaga mushroom bee pollen and more concentrate
you talk about next level meal replacement next level compared to way and it's great
to mix with way and then make shakes it's incredible my son is growing like a weed
using it is bigger than I am already 15 incredible it is amazing infowarstore.com 50% off caveman
but only a few days left it's about to end and folks the globalist hate it when you do
this we're the tip of the spear because we're fearless we're bold because we understand
the stakes are too high the globalist when we're all slaves so don't thank me for what
I'm doing I want to thank you we're all in this together and when you get the great bologna
lobby t-shirts you get the great books and videos you're fighting the tip of the spear
again visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the info war show
thank you
Suck your best with goblins and re-shading goblins
And do bad with a goblin
Kissing goblins
And re-shading goblins
And bad with a goblin
Kissing goblins
And re-shading goblins
And bad with a goblin
Dump it, charging into a goblin's nest
Some goblin vomit, swapping blood on it
Especially up to his ankles
From charging into a goblin's nest
Some goblin vomit, swapping blood on it
Goblin vomit, swapping blood on it
I'm not expecting him to not get dirty swapping
Kissing goblins
And re-shading goblins
Kissing goblins
And bad with a goblin
Kissing goblins
And re-shading goblins
Kissing goblins
I just don't want to kiss you
And bad with a goblin
And bad with a goblin
And bad with a goblin
I just don't want to kiss you
And bad with a goblin
That's Placeboying
That video got seen tens of millions of times
On Facebook, Twitter and YouTube
And so it is
It is close to Halloween
And he wants to ban that now
Because he's not satanic enough for him
And people dress up at different outfits and things
You can't have free expression
Because liberals are against free expression
And even the theater now
And even Shakespeare and even mathematics are saying
Ban it all
I have the articles right here, mainstream news
With straight faces are saying this
That sounds insane
That sounds like a cult
That's what it is
Where you dress and talk like they say
Of middle patients that are used and controlled
And statistically are very poor
And statistically very depressed
And Facebook documents show they try to artificially keep you depressed
So they can control you
I'm going to go to AJ and Steve and Jeffrey
And Kevin have been holding patiently here in a moment
But first
Here is a literal video
Since Halloween is almost here
Samhain
All saint today
Guess you got Day of the Dead as well
Got in Mexico
And the point is it's a fall festival
And so here is a literal goblin
Videotaped by
Michael Zimmerman
That attacked me
Because I attempted to speak to it when I was screaming FU
This is a goblin that attacked me
These are real gibbering noises
Listen
Hey, come tell me on camera
Come tell me on camera
I'm your talent
I'm your talent
I'm your own camera
I'm actually who you are
Go ahead, yeah
Yeah, I'm your mama
I'm your mama
Target is the mother piece
I want
I want
Species
Target is your mother
This is it, right here
Goblin is angry
I can't even talk
He thought it was bad breath again
A literal slave of the system
See that?
Look at this slave
Alright, back to your phone calls
Let's talk to AJ in Ohio
Thanks for holding AJ here on the air
Hey, what's going on, Alex?
Good, brother. Thanks for calling
Hey, not a prompt, thanks for thanking that call
Now, you know, we can't say goblin anymore
Because that's this week's racial slur
That we're not allowed to say anymore
They'll probably start saying we're not supposed to use it
But, you know, again, they're trying to territorialize
All information saying it's racist
So you can only use information that they approve
I mean, this is a dysfunctional group of mental patients
They were supposed to put their dysfunction into us
To bring us all down
They contained it on the universities
And in the corporations, and that's why they're all failing
Isn't it beautiful?
Oh, yeah, definitely. I'm telling you right now
I'm a truck driver for my occupation
And the biggest fear I had
Coming out of this election was, yeah, people are awake
For the election, but
My biggest fear was people were going to go back to their safe zones
And realize, okay, we won this one
Let's take a breath, and you can't take a breath
When you're dealing with these type of people
You gotta stay on them
And I tell you what, just from all the people that I've
Make deliveries to on a daily basis
I talk to them, they're awake
And once you open that can of worms
That's no going back
And by the way, when you always demand delivery
From a person driving a truck
Then you're going to keep people out there
And people need to know how to drive a truck
Or need to not just have a calculator
It's dehumanizing us
We need, not because computers are bad
The globalists are designing it
To displace us so governments
Can dictate our surrender
Must continue to support real farmers
And support real truck drivers
And real soldiers
Because this automation will be the undoing of us
That is correct
And definitely when I saw your ad
With that bot
I think it was yesterday, you guys were talking about it
The crazy
Dubai robot or whatever that's going on
Mixed that with
Now I guess over in Germany, Mercedes Benz
Was coming out with an all purpose
Semi-truck, and I'm like, you're still going to be somebody
Back in, you know what I mean
You're still going to have somebody have to unload it
And it just cracks me up that they think
That they can push this narrative
And basically cut out all the good paying jobs
For the middle class
And you're going to have somebody that goes and services it
When it breaks down
And again, and it's not that
Computers or progress
Or bad, the globalists admit
They're building a world not for humans
Why the future doesn't need us
We need to say we're going to
We're a bunch of delusional thinking
They're god
Tech giants don't make us
Obsolete, we're going to make them obsolete
They've declared war on us
They're using computers and robots to do it
Let's take control of the machines
And the technology and use it against them
Just like the internet and we're going to win
If we're conscious of it, then make decisions
Every day, financially and in other ways
That support human liberty, we are unstoppable
If we launch operations now
Exactly
The last thing I wanted to leave with Alex
I wanted to thank you for taking the blinders off
Me, so to speak
Coming out of the military
Your peers Morgan debate that you're very famous for
That was kind of what woke me up
I'm like, wow, this guy, I finally got an advocate
That can speak for me, that has the platform
To speak for me
So you guys keep up the great work, brother
And you guys have a good one
God bless you, let me say you speak well for yourself
And that's why all the humble men like yourself
Need to start a YouTube channel or a Facebook channel
To make that sense for us all
And just put out the info in your common sense
Don't count on me, make me obsolete
Let me tell you how you make Alex Jones obsolete
All of you start radio shows
Start YouTube, start
Blog talk, radio, whatever
Start local access, start a local newspaper
Call in to C-SPAN, whatever you do
Everybody starts communicating
Like you just did
We are unstoppable
Let's jam in one more call here
Stephen Montana, you're on the air
This is a deplorable Stephen Montana
And I wanted to let you know, Alex
Thank you, and I'll make it quick
You don't have to respond
But Americans are getting mad as hell
And I talk to people and the best way
Of communications is communicating
And that's one-on-one
I was talking to a guy yesterday, same way
And Americans aren't going to take it anymore
And the biggest thing I'm hearing
Is the crooks need to go to jail
And basically, yes
The Kennedy file should be released now
To protect Trump
Because if he gets into those
They're protecting themselves and trying to keep their job
They need to be unemployed
You know what he's doing to the deep state
He knows what's in there, it's the bushes
It's all of them in there, and these are real files
That's why they're so scared
And I think he's probably using this the next 60 days
To broker some deals with the deep state behind the scenes
But I think they'll stab him in the back
And kill him
Let me tell you, this is full-on
Globalist warfare right now
Couldn't be a crazier time
Stay there, Steve, I went to you later
We need to come back and finish up then
Jeffrey, Kevin, and others
And then I got a bunch of news I haven't hit yet
I'm Alex Jones at newswars.com
Prisonplanet.com
Please help spread those links today
Please help spread those links today
Happiness is 5starsoap.com
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com
Or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog
Calben Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars
And give you good old-fashioned real soaps
That are triple concentrated
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com
That's F-I-V-E-starsoap.com
Or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
And ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
And biblical times
Instead of containing fluoride
Our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
And an array of other beneficial compounds
That have been hand selected for their oral health benefits
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste
Are the first and only to contain
All of these natural ingredients
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine
Notice the difference with our super blue
Fluoride free products
Refresh your breath
And invigorate your oral health routine
At infowarstore.com
That's infowarstore.com
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion
By EmRick's Essentials
Perfect for face and body
This natural unscented sunscreen
Can be worn at all times of the day
Whenever you need sun protection
We source ingredients from nature
Producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins
The natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide
Which is the largest particle size used
And we do not use nano particles
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body
The organic oils help hydrate the skin
Leaving it nice and smooth
The truly natural fragrance free sunscreen
For the most sensitive skin
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun
And strives to bring you organic products
To enhance your life
Naturally protect your skin
With SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials
Stop exposing yourself and your family
To toxic ingredients
Visit infowarstore.com
And learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion
Not a group you developed living defense for us
It took you over a year to do it
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem
That pretty much scares me the most
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put
Topps in some food and water and beverages in my system
Right now we're dealing with massive parasites
Which is anything that's harmful to your body
That lives off a host mechanism
Right now with all the refugees
Spreading disease around
We have biological warfare going on everywhere
These are all parasites
Tell us about all the stuff I said
There's so many things that are in it
You have the neem in there
You have the organic clove bud
The organic wormwood
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse
At least twice a year
Alright, well I'm glad we've got some back in
Because I'm going back on it today
I just came back in yesterday
Living Defense, infowarslife.com
And folks, you can't lose
It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period
And you support the broadcast
infowarslife.com
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product
You are listening to an infowars.com frontline report
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance
We're back live, going right back to your phone calls
Stephen Montana, Jeffrey, Kevin, Jason, Alex, John
We're going to go to all of you
But every day I see five, six, seven, eight news articles
Reporting with straight faces
That Yale looks to stop teaching the classics in English
Because, well, the classics are races
Shakespeare, you name it
Or mathematics is racist
It needs to not be taught
I mean, they're politicizing everything
It's completely insane by design
And now any old statues are being attacked
Teddy Roosevelt attacked at Museum of Natural History
People saying he's a racist, take him down
They don't even know who they're going after
And here is the chronicle
This is owned by the folks that own South by Southwest
That giant nerd fest where they try to lure in
All the little desperate nobodies and trendies
Hope they're going to get a job
Or become successful somehow
With the big tech giants and the rest of it
And Hollywood and its invasion of Texas
But they have a Halloween mask that's the cover
Armed white male
And he's pointing a rifle at you
That has two scopes
Talk about the ignorant weirdo
That doesn't know anything about guns
I guess they think it's like a telescope
We've got a spotting scope
And then the telescope itself, that's not on guns
That's on telescopes
So just the total ignorance
It's a white man with blonde hair
And an evil blue eye
And you see this in Hollywood and the culture
And then you've got everybody saying Russian scum
The Russians as a people are evil
They control our election
Meanwhile it's Russia paying off Hillary
And they're just so proud of the provocativeness
Of trying to incite
Minority groups into their anti-white race cult
It's being directed by a bunch of old hunchback liberals
Like the guy, he's got a fake name
Lewis Black, forget his real name
That owns the Chronicle
I mean it's just an assault
And it's everywhere
We're just waiting in it
We're just waiting in all of it
Here's the thing
They may have their big nerd fest
South by Southwest
That is somewhat successful
Though they say it's becoming more unpopular
It's just disintegrating
The Chronicle itself is a joke that nobody reads
And of course it's Lewis Black
Guys for years
Been writing lies about me
And always trying to get me off the air
How I'm dangerous
I mean give me a break man
You talk about a weevil
You talk about everything
We talk about what's wrong with this country
I just love watching Hollywood and the NFL
And all these people just sink into the mud
Just look at that race baiting
Armed white male
You're an effing white male
Says Age Screlics
So when you spread our links
You spread our articles
When you buy our products
It is an act of resistance to these people
And I know you're not sneaking to their level
So our audience is incredibly diverse
This is meant to divide this country along racial lines
They know Christians
And they know conservatives
And they know people fought hard in the west in slavery
They hope the public doesn't read history
So they can find out that the west
Actually made the first moves to abolish slavery
And to empower women
They're bringing in a new form of corporate oppression
And they want to attack all that's old
Because what's old was the Renaissance
Trying to be pure
Trying to not be barbarous
Trying to be good
Trying to grow a middle class
Now it grew such successful empires
That they ended up taking over the world
But just because it empowered more people
Than any other group
Didn't mean we were perfect
Didn't mean we didn't have big problems
But the experiment worked so well
It displaced the other tyrannies
And it was a lesser tyranny
Now evil corporate control groups
Have gained control of the west
And have used to dominate the world
And then they turn around now
To inflict the race-based cult
Now that the country is more than half non-white
And it's going to accelerate
They want to flip the script
Just like the Democrats always do
And have race-based systems
And remember, they know what they're doing
They know what they're invoking
And the good news is, they're failing
Lewis Black is a failure
And all of his other cohorts
Like Stephen Colbert, you know
With the whole Russiagate thing
You've been proven to be the fraud
You're the joke
You're the political bankrupt group
That claimed it controlled America's culture
We just ignored you
Now you've taken over academia
And everything else
And you're showing us, hey, I'm the boss
I'm going to run your life
People are actually like, really?
Get off my back
We tolerated you, you're intolerant
We're done with you
It's amazing
And they're out to destroy us, ladies and gentlemen
I've had law firms look at it
I'm not ready to talk about it yet
But I have hired the top law firm in the country
That's been successful more than any other group
And we did soon notice the letters today
About what you've seen in the news
Trying to destroy them for us
And accompany with defamation, slander, libel
And it's a very strong case
And I need your support
And I've told everybody, I've been warning all these people
I'm very close to filing suit on Tom Brokaw
He has not reversed himself and others
I'm not a litigious person
But I've got to strike back against these people
Because if they can bully me out of existence
They can bully you out of existence
But all you've got to do is decide to go to
M4warstore.com
And to buy the products that are great
High quality, water filtration, supplements
The new Antifa t-shirt we've got
That looks like the Antifa t-shirt
But says anti-fascist, anti-communist
M4warstore.com with a gas and flag
It's beautiful
We're selling it, ladies and gentlemen
For $13
$13.95
Okay
I mean, I want to sell these
I should be selling them for $100
But then we get under operation, I know you'd buy them
But I like to sell some very, very low price
A matching sticker
We're going to add some of the other M4war stickers
And let's just all get more aggressive
In the M4war, we're winning
So it's at M4warstore.com
Okay, I said I'd go to your calls and I'm not
I'm a bad person. Stephen Montana, you're making some great points
Go ahead and finish up
What I also want to say is
We got your back, Alex
Your listeners have your back
Don't worry about it
Getting back to what I wanted to call originally
Was Roger and you were talking about
How, I believe as a McMasters
Was talking about sending 50,000 troops to Afghanistan
That's a total exclusive
That's directly
Well, you got to ask yourself why
And it hit me when I was looking at my view
Out in Montana window
That they want to get our troops out of the country
For, let's say, November 4th
That our American troops wouldn't be here
And the soldiers who stand behind us
And who abide by the Constitution
And they want to put them out of the country
That's 40,000 of the best
Trump supporters
Being put into that meat grinder
You know, and there's no reason for it
And Trump pulled the right thing on it
And I had to bring that up
Because there's no way that you would send out
That kind of troops
Unless you had a major reason
Especially we know we've already lost that
We won't have any one war
You can't win when there's not a civilization
No, I tell you, the Afghans are weird, man
Did you know they have the highest per capita
Of trannies? And I'm not not
People want to, they make these young men
That aren't masculine be women
And then they have sex with them
The brothels up in the hills
Where it's men you have sex with
Man, let me tell you, there's some weirdos
And I mean, they're like murdering, killing
Don't care about dying, super brave, super crazy
And then
Half of them are
Or more gay
I mean, you just can't make this stuff up
Women got hoods over their heads, they throw acid on them
They talk back, the leftists all love it
A bunch of fruit loops, what do you make of that?
Oh my god, it's crazy
Donald Trump's got to protect himself on that
Because they're going to try and pull that
And if they took out 50,000 troops out of our country
Okay, those are our Americans
You know, we need to close the borders
And keep the borders tight
We need to have people here to protect us
I agree, Afghanistan is a pedophile palace
We're not just going to have to end to the next week
The BrainForce Plus special 50% off
I'm going to have to end even sooner
Our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth
Turmeric chaga mushroom, bee pollen
And more concentrate
You talk about next level meal replacement
Next level compared to whey
And it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes
It's incredible, my son is growing like a weed using it
It's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible
It is amazing
M4WarsLife.com 50% off caveman
But only a few days left
It's about to end
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless
We're bold
Because we understand the stakes are too high
The globalists win, we're all slaves
And before what I'm doing, I want to thank you
We're all in this together
And when you get the great Molan Labe T-shirt
And you get the great books and videos
You're fighting the tip of the spear
Again, visit infowarstore.com today
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to like and subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And don't forget to subscribe to our channel
And subscribe to our channel
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off.
And I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already are stocking up.
They know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39. It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com or simply call toll-free, 888-253-3139.
We're not just going to have to end the next week the Brainforce Plus special 50% off.
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric, chaga mushroom, bee pollen and more concentrate.
You talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey, and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible. My son is growing like a weed using it. It's bigger than I am already. 15, incredible. It is amazing.
InfowarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left. It's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless. We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win. We're all slaves. So don't thank me for what I'm doing. I want to thank you. We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit InfowarsStore.com today and commit to helping the Infowar.
Jack Pascovic coming in here fourth hour, Alex Jones show. I want to thank Alex so much for having me on today.
And I appreciate it. Honestly, an hour. I don't know if that's going to be enough to break down all of the news and the intel that I have to share.
I broke this down a little bit on my personal Twitter page, my periscope. If you guys have seen that earlier this week, I teased out a little bit of what's going on.
But there's so much coming out in the Uranium One investigation. There's so much that's happening honestly on a day to day basis.
Things that I got from sources just last night, people that I've talked to this morning, it's changing on a day to day basis because the people that were behind that entire scheme,
that entire situation are trying to jump through hoops and move one step ahead of the investigation, one step ahead of the media,
and one step of those of us in alternative media that are breaking down what exactly is going on and what exactly happened with that configuration.
But before I really break down all that stuff, I do want to remind you guys about the Infowars store, infowars.com, or excuse me, infowarsstore.com.
That is where you can go to find all of the incredible specials that help keep the Infowar going.
And that's why it's considered a win-win situation because what you're doing is you're supporting the broadcast and you're also getting help for yourself.
You're getting some fun and great products for your health and also this wonderful t-shirt, anti-fascist and anti-communist.
And isn't that the perfect t-shirt for someone who's a patriotic American who loves their country and doesn't believe in extremism on either side?
Because we are anti-fascism and we are anti-communism.
So it's sort of a play on the other shirts out there, the other symbols.
But in this case, we're standing with the United States of America and it's got the don't tread on me flag on there.
I actually ordered mine earlier today when I saw that hilarious ad that Alex and Owen and everybody cut the Infowars dogs, Reservoir dogs kind of ad.
It was hilarious. It was so good.
That is the kind of t-shirt that right there, when you put that up, you're walking down the street.
You are going to be triggering so many people when they see this because they're going to say, wait, I didn't know that we had to talk about fascism and communism.
You don't support one of those. Which one are you?
And you just say, I'm an American. I support my country and I love this country.
That is one of the greatest things out there.
I want you guys to go and check it out because that t-shirt is absolutely hilarious.
Probably the other product I wanted to mention is BrainForce Plus 50. It's super charged.
It is currently on sale, 50% off if you guys go and look at it in the Infowars store.
You guys can pick it up at a super reduced price right now.
This is the stuff I've tried BrainForce.
Tanya was a little concerned. She said, Jack, what's going to happen when you try that BrainForce?
And I said, I don't know, but let's give it a shot. We're talking about it.
I want to know what it's like. And I'm telling you, it opens your mind.
It gives you a clear feeling. It gives you a lot of clarity.
It's not the kind of jitteriness. I was in the military.
When I would deploy, we would take energy drink after energy drink.
But this BrainForce, that makes you jittery. It makes you irritated.
BrainForce is not like that. BrainForce helps to make you feel more open, more calm.
And it's almost warm. I always describe it as kind of a warm feeling.
So that is why that is one of the products that I absolutely recommend.
And I appreciate it. I've actually tried it and use it myself.
Folks, Uranium One. The Uranium One story will not go away.
And in fact, the investigation is getting bigger and bigger.
Just this morning, it was confirmed that President Trump himself is the one that gave the order for the FBI informant to be allowed to testify before Congress.
So we had had that reported from sources before. Now it's confirmed that the President of the United States, President Trump,
and I don't think you'd find any other president that would allow this,
he went to the DOJ and said, lift the gag order on this informant.
So there's a confidential informant, someone that we had that was on, essentially,
on the payroll or intimately knew the details of the Uranium One deal,
where there's considerations that he may have actually gone to Russia and been part of this and turned over documents.
He's been trying to get this out to congressional investigators for years,
but the Obama DOJ wouldn't let him.
President Trump himself has now said that this confidential informant should come out.
But here's what's breaking news is that now, what my sources are telling me,
is that Senator Chuck Grassley and the other Democrats on the committee, on the Juiciery Committee,
are at odds as to how the informant's testimony should come out in the Senate in the committee.
And they're currently split on it because it's split down party lines.
The Republicans are saying we want this to be as open and transparent as possible.
The Democrats are saying that it shouldn't happen.
There's so much infighting, the Democrats are trying to do everything they can to stall this.
And the latest that I've heard on this is that they're even discussing having separate hearings for the informant,
one for the Republicans and one for the Democrats.
So folks doesn't take a genius to explain what's going to happen if they do something like that.
What's going to happen is the Republicans are going to come out and say, oh, well, he said this.
And then the Democrats are going to come out and say, no, no, no, you're wrong, he told us this.
And therefore, if the two stories don't match up, he's discredited.
This is something you do.
Instead of playing one side against the other, they're playing their investigation off of another investigation.
It's actually parallel investigation to have one informant give testimony to two separate sets of investigators,
in this case being the United States Senate, the Judiciary Committee.
So that is an absolute travesty of justice.
There should be no call for a separate hearing of this informant.
There wasn't separate hearings when Roger Stone went and testified to the Intel Committee.
There wasn't a separate hearing when Donald Trump Jr. went and testified.
Why would there be partisan hearings?
Because they're injecting partisanship into the process.
And once they do that, they can simply run around like Hillary Clinton used to do and say it's a vast right-wing conspiracy
and try to discredit this.
Because Uranium One, as it really stands, and I'm going to be breaking down some background on Uranium One that some of,
in the next segment here, this is the scandal that is going to take down so many senators.
It is going to take down so many people in dip state because Robert Mueller, we've now found out, was aware of all of this.
Now, another example is Rod Rosenstein.
There was a confidential informant, right? Who was running the informant?
Well, now we find that the informant was working for Rod Rosenstein who was running the investigation.
So if he was running him, why then?
And Senator Grassley even brought this up and said, why was Rosenstein not forthwith with the fact that he had an informant
on the payroll of Uranium One, or at least on the payroll of someone involved with the deal,
that knew all about what was going on, whereas Rosenstein himself hasn't mentioned a single thing to the congressional investigators
or to the Senate about this despite being questioned about it numerous times.
This is a clear obstruction on the part of Rosenstein and a clear example, potentially, of him trying to protect his good old friend
that he hired to run the Russian investigation, none other than Mr. Robert Mueller.
Ladies and gentlemen, you're not going to hear this type of information in the lying mainstream media to borrow a phrase.
You're not going to hear this type of information on other platforms.
That is why we ask you to stick it here with InfoWars, because we can bring the questions together to do things that journalists used to do.
And that's ask hard questions to connect dots and to do investigation into these matters,
instead of simply parroting talking points and government press releases whenever they're sent out to us.
I'm Jack Pasobic. I'm going to be here. We've got 30 minutes to go. I'm going to cover some more stuff.
But in the next segment, what I'm going to do is talk about specifically, if they sold 20% of the uranium, where did the uranium come from
and where did the uranium go? Stay tuned.
You have the right to remain private.
In an emergency, you need a fire. Now, but what if the wood is wet? No problem for InstaFire.
Our non-toxic fire starter packs light wet wood, floats and can even burn on water or in any weather.
Sustains winds up to 30 miles per hour and each pouch weighs only 1.75 ounces.
Need an emergency or camp stove? Get the InstaFire Inferno stove that boils 20 ounces of water in under 3 minutes with controllable heat
and temp from 425 to 1500 degrees. Pre-shipping. Go to InstaFire.com and use discount code Radio 30 at the three times for 30% off your order.
InstaFire. Fire in an instance.
We're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new AutoShip feature in InfoWarsLife.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip. Win, win, win at InfoWarsLife.com. Free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America, it'll come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white man! You're a white man!
Welcome to The War Room, the latest expansion in InfoWars live broadcasting.
We are live weekdays from 3 to 6 PM central at infowars.com slash so and this YouTube channel right here that you've landed on.
Please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications. You can follow us on Twitter at War Room Show.
We're going to have the most powerful guests, the most powerful hosts. We'll be hearing from Alex Jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls.
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long. The silent majority is no longer silent. This is The War Room.
And more than 30,000 that have been released previously but with heavy redactions.
This means that thousands of formally classified documents related to Kennedy's assassination will be unveiled.
JFK scholars cannot wait. Longtime Trump advisor Roger Stone was on the Alex Jones show this week.
He said he spoke directly to the president and urged him to release all the documents.
However, Stone notes that the president is under tremendous pressure by the Central Intelligence Agency to delay the release of the documents for another 25 years.
Stone said the issue is now transparency. What is the government hiding at this point?
He believes the documents will show that JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald was trained, nurtured and put in place by the CIA.
Lee and McAdoo InfoWars.com.
Popping in for Alex Jones today, it's Jack Posovic here from Washington DC, breaking down all the latest of what's going on here in the city that has been rocked over the past few weeks with the revelations of Hillary Clinton's involvement in the
uranium one deal and the fact that the entire situation was under investigation by the FBI but was then since swept under the rug by none other than FBI directors Robert Mueller and James Comey.
Mueller, of course, is now the special prosecutor in charge of the Russia investigation, the Russia collusion investigation on President Trump, whereas James Comey was fired.
However, it really does beg the question now that the new evidence has come out that Mueller may have been involved in covering up the previous administrations, Barack Obama administrations dealings with Russia, the sale of uranium one to Russia,
the contracting of these lands being approved through the Department of State Hillary Clinton, while the Secretary of State's husband Bill Clinton accepted half a million dollars from the Russian state, as well as $145 million in donations to the Clinton Foundation.
One piece of this that I'd like to go back to, and I brought up some of this with Alex earlier today, is that all of this uranium that we keep talking about the 20% of the US uranium, well, where is that uranium you ask?
Where is it? Can we find it? Can we see it? Can we touch it? What happened to it? Is it really gone? Is it all in Russia? How do we know?
So if you go back and look, there's actually a Bureau of Land Management website that I did some digging and actually pulled this up that wrote back all the way in 2011 and 2012 that they were indeed looking to secure a deal and approve a deal with uranium one through their shell company,
meaning Oregon Energy LLC, to approve this deal to allow the development of a strip mine or possibly even an open pit mine in Oregon. The company was later sold and they're now subsidiaries, right?
They used to call it, that's what the uranium one does, is that they use all these subsidiaries to make it look like it's an Australian company or make it looks like it's a US company or a Canadian company.
But what happens is they're really all owned at the end of the day by uranium one, which is in turn owned by the Russian state.
The way it works is those mines, a lot of them are a lot of the land usage rates are actually down in moleher county in Southwest Oregon.
This part of Oregon gained a lot of international attention back all the way in 2014, 2015, when the standoffs were going on between the Bundys and the Hammond Ranch, the Bundy Ranch is there as well,
Northern Nevada, Southern Oregon, that were going on when they were trying to get kicked off of their land by the US government as they alleged.
The standoff happened and those ranchers were the ones that were standing in the way while BLM was trying and pushing very hard to get them off their lands.
FBI's HRT was involved and now we're breaking down and learning that this project is actually called the Aurora project.
Now, I know that is kind of a headline grabbing title, but it's actually because it's near the town of Aurora.
So this Aurora project quite simply says the Aurora uranium project shows the local infrastructure.
There's been three of these mines have been out there.
They've known that uranium has been there since the 1970s.
It's only been in recent years that it was sold out to Russia.
So it used to be that these were done by US companies or done by Canadian companies, our allies.
But then it was through the sale of those companies that Russia and the approval of that sale by the Clinton, by Clinton, that Secretary of State and then Obama as, as presidents.
Those sales put these uranium deposits which are found here in the United States in the hands of the Russians.
We now know, and I got off the phone with a source just before the call today, that what they're doing is the uranium that comes out of there,
according to my source, is sent up to Canada, which has different import-export licensing than if they were sending it directly to Russia.
So it goes to Canada, then they, so it's sort of, and then it goes to Russia from there.
So what they're kind of doing is almost laundering the uranium and the way they would launder money because it was being sent directly from the United States to Russia.
This would obviously trigger a lot of alarm bells.
So what they're doing with Uranium One, which was originally part Canadian-owned company, now they're able to funnel it through Canada, then get it back to Russia.
Here's another shot you guys can see of what's going on there.
There's, this is one of the major open pit mine.
It's a diagram for what they wanted, for everything they want to do there.
These stock, the stockpile areas, the processing plants, all of this, Mulher county, very close to where that standoff took place.
So now this really begs the question that if this huge project is going on out there in southwestern Oregon, Aurora, Aurora, Oregon is the name of the cities.
They call it the Aurora Project.
Here I am on a Friday talking about Project Aurora.
I didn't think that would be coming up.
But if all of this is going on, clearly the local representatives would know something about it.
The federal representatives for Oregon to include Senator Ron Wyden certainly would know something about it.
We're now seeing, you can see the data, total production of Uranium concentrated in the United States going all the way down.
These are, these are in pounds, so millions and millions of pounds of Uranium coming out of the United States.
I think these numbers go through about 2011.
So right around the time this was going on, this is one of the major Uranium spots in not only in the United States, but in the entire world.
And what we're learning that Russia was up to with its Uranium-1 purchases was to corner the entire, not just U.S. market on Uranium, but actually the world market on Uranium.
A strategic nuclear material, strategic fizzle material that's used in nuclear weapons.
Now Russia, of course, we know has a somewhat cozy relationship with North Korea.
Is it possible then, it's not so far to say that some of that yellow cake, and that's the type of Uranium that you can get out of Oregon,
is it possible that some of that Uranium ended up in the hands of the North Koreans,
who we now know have a reinvigorated nuclear program, and they have the ability, or they're trying to get the ability with their TD-2 missiles,
to be able to launch into sites in Northwestern, the United States.
So I was discussing this earlier today with a source, and I said, what irony that North Korea could be striking the new,
the Northwestern states of America, right, Washington and Oregon, with Uranium that actually came from that very same area,
thanks to the machinations of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.
Now, I know all this sounds quite sensational, and that's why I'm not Jack Pasobic sitting here and making these claims.
I am simply calling for a special prosecution, a special investigation into this entire situation,
to find out where our government's culpability comes in on it.
Because if this is true, and they have secured this Uranium, and that there were payoffs to Clinton and to Bill Clinton,
to the Clinton Foundation, to so many other people that would have had to be involved in this,
with approvals coming all over from Uranium I, lining the pockets of everyone involved in this,
while the entire thing was under FBI investigation, the entire investigation then swept under the rug,
Mueller goes and invests in hedge funds long after he gets out of office, where he's getting his profits,
we need this to be known.
We need this truth to come out.
We need all of it to be put in front of the American people to let them know quite specifically what was going on.
Hillary Clinton is worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
She's never once had a company.
She's never once had, or at least a successful company.
She did have white water, I suppose, but we can talk about that some other time.
Hillary Clinton didn't sell a product.
She didn't provide a service.
She was in elected and then later appointed government office.
She was in public office and yet ended up a multi-millionaire.
What product was she selling, you ask?
Well, it seems that more and more we're learning that that product may have been uranium.
Folks, you're not going to hear this stuff anywhere else in media.
That's why you've got to stick here on InfoWars.
Keep it tuned.
We're going to talk a little bit about the JFK files and then also a little bit about the dossier coming up to round out the fourth hour here today.
I'm Jack Possovic, guest hosting.
We've got a lot of news.
I know it's a Friday.
I know it's Halloween is coming.
There's a lot going on.
We're going to a party here in DC later tonight with Lauren Southern, Will Chamberlain, Cassandra Fairbanks, a whole slew of patriots.
So there's a ton of really exciting stuff to go on.
And no, I'm not telling you what my costume is going to be, but you guys stick around.
We might be able to show you a picture of it later on my Twitter account.
But stay here for the rest of the fourth hour and we will be breaking down so much for you.
Stick around, InfoWars.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 varts water.
Imrex Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Imrex Essentials.
Visit infowarsstore.com to learn more.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country and the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be.
Because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield and infowarslife.com.
To support digestion and health and detoxification in the body, Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your Biome Defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info warm.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So much to break down so much we've got going on. I'm getting married in eight days, but I'm here trying to hold down the fort on the info war to let people know what's going on in this country because the forces of liberty and patriotism are on the upswing here in the United States.
There is so much that was that has gone wrong in the globalist grand plan because of the election of Donald J. Trump, which sent a monkey wrench into everything.
And now there is so much that is unraveling so much that would have been swept under the rug or shoved down the Iranian mine that we never would have known, but is now coming out because of patriots and because of people like you tuning in, sharing, retweeting, and even exposing and researching a lot of the stuff that we're learning about today.
Because it's all coming out. Donald Trump was the tip of the spear. He's there in the White House, but so many of us are there supporting him from our homes supporting them on the street supporting them with our dollars supporting them with our hours of time in this effort in this great and noble effort to take back our country.
From people who have tried to change it to twist it to pervert it into some kind of nightmarish vision that it wasn't supposed to be to turn the United States truly into the United States again for all people, all Americans to protect our sovereignty to protect our national security.
And we found in some of these releases with the JFK files, we found that one organization possibly was trying to divide us and that organization is known as the Central Intelligence Agency or CIA.
One of the documents that just came out and I'm telling you there are so many documents in there that it is going to take us weeks, possibly months to dig through this archive. One of the ones that jumped out at me that I saw and I saw the headline for was the fact that CIA was potentially considering a terror campaign.
They, their words terror campaign in Miami with bombings, they were planning on bombing American cities, bombing our own American cities there in Miami to make it be tied back to some sort of plot to assassinate Castro.
So they were going to gin up support for an assassination or possibly even invasion of Cuba, like the disastrous Bay of Pigs by conducting a false flag bombing campaign in the American city of Miami, and then blaming the entire thing on the communist Cubans.
This is the actual report came out just yesterday. Everyone can go see this. It was called Operation Mongoose and it's way down. I know the producers are following this, but it's way down in the file, almost like 15 pages in, but it will tell you very specifically that they called for a terror campaign, an actual false flag campaign.
So now we have information that CIA is willing to conduct false flag operations in the United States, which target potentially political opponents, and they're willing to conduct these terror campaigns and bombings in our own cities with bombs to carry out their ends.
And you guys can read through, this is just one of the hundreds of documents, thousands of documents that were released yesterday by President Trump. And I think to my own knowledge, and this is what Alex asked about at the beginning of the hour.
He said, why do you think they were trying so hard? Why was the deep state trying so hard to block these documents? And one thing as a prior intelligence officer that we learn is, we can say, well, okay, this was a potential operation they looked at in 1962, but they eventually never did, right?
But here's the thing, is now we're learning about the behavior, the psychology of CIA. We're learning about something called their TTPs, their tactics, techniques, and procedures.
And these TTPs that are now being revealed through these documents could still be the same TTPs that this organization has continued from that time until now, or used in other places around the world.
And I know a lot of people are out there who know about Operation Gladius. Operation Gladius was a very similar situation that was used in Europe after the end of World War II, and at the beginning of the Cold War, where terrorist attacks took place all across Western Europe,
and it was blamed on the communists, but it was actually conducted by U.S.-backed intel assets. So these are attacks, or Operation Gladius, excuse me, they call it the stay-behind operations.
And this is completely out, it's all declassified, this was prior to that. So these were stay-behind operations that were done and conducted by intelligence assets to smear political opponents,
to make your opponent look like they are the terrorists, like they are the ones doing this, and to potentially spark action, potentially spark an invasion, potentially spark a wartime scenario.
So that is why they said, look, we don't need anyone to tell us that communists are bad, right? We don't need anyone to tell us that the Nazis were bad.
But what CIA was trying to do here, we didn't even tell us that Castro was bad, but what they're trying to do is spark that emotional reaction to lead to something larger, to lead to the give-up of our liberties, which happened in the aftermath of 9-11,
or to spark something like the invasion of Iraq, which was done after the faulty intelligence came out claiming that Iraq held weapons of mass destruction when none of them were found.
So they're trying to play on your emotions, and we've now learned that they've been doing this for a very, very long time.
And I don't think that's anything new for this audience, I don't think there's anything new that I have to tell anyone here, but it's so important that when we can prove that this is something they've been doing for decades,
when we can prove in their own documents and in their own words, unassailably, that this has happened, that we have to call them out on it, and we have to bring up the fact that, no, this is not supposition, this is not some baseless accusation that we're making.
This is your own words in your own release documents about false flag operations that you tried to conduct to condemn political opponents or to potentially spark a war between the US and Cuba, okay?
Kennedy, they did, there were so many of generals, go back to the Cuban missile crisis, there were so many generals, the entire defense department, so many in the defense industrial complex wanted an invasion.
They wanted to invade, they wanted airstrikes to go after the missile silos, they wanted to destroy it, they did not want JFK using diplomacy to work out the situation, all right?
We all know that that's what JFK did, 13 days. We all know that JFK worked with Nikita Khrushchev and who were then worked with Castro to end the situation peacefully by making a deal where no war had to occur, because think about it,
no war between Cuba and the United States would not have gone well for the people of Miami. So is it possible that these agencies were trying to spark even further conflict between Cuba and Miami, excuse me, Cuba and the United States with these attacks in Miami?
But what else were they willing to do to get Castro out of power? What else were they willing to accomplish to make this happen? Because, and you realize this is what happens when they have these ideas, they get it in their head that this has to happen and if we can just trick people, then everything will work out,
but it never does. Look at Afghanistan, right? Look at all the blunders we made in Vietnam. This is what always happens, Iraq.
Now, in my last two minutes, I want to break down a little bit of news that's come out on the dossier. And we now know that the dossier was funded, excuse me, by Hillary Clinton and the DNC after reported and repeated statements that Hillary's
campaign was not funding it by Mr. John Podesta himself and Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chair of the DNC at the time. They claimed two congressional investigators that they were not funding it. Well, now, even Leon Panetta, the former head of the CIA under Barack Obama, is claiming that this needs to be investigated.
But here's the thing. We were saying, well, if Obama's people are saying it must be true, and it's true that it is, but the dossier will take down Hillary. What they're doing is they're trying to throw Hillary Clinton under the bus in a way that only affects her, but doesn't affect the
rest of the enterprise, doesn't affect the rest of the establishment. The dossier is a good way to do that. It will take down Hillary. And it would potentially take down James Comey as well, because there are a lot of lingering questions about when exactly his knowledge of
Orvis, his knowledge of Chris Steele, his knowledge of the dossier came into play. Was this known prior to their involvement with Fusion GPS? So much to come out. So many things for us to break down and follow. And that is why you've got to stick it here.
We've got War Room coming up with Owen Troyer, who is always great at telling everybody what's going on. Roger Stone is out and about breaking down things as a correspondent. And I'm Jack Pasobic. And what am I up to? I'm trying to fight the Info War while I'm also trying to get married here in eight days.
So the lovely Tonya Tay is always telling me, stop your research for one second. We have to pick out flowers. You have to pick out bow ties or something. But it's an amazing thing. We're trying to bring back our traditions. We're trying to bring back our country.
And to me, marriage is one of the most beautiful ways to do that, something I can do in my own time, as well as the Rev 18 pack that we found with Mike Cernovich and Jeff Geesey. Thank you guys so much for listening. Jack Pasobic here. I'll be back next week to talk to you. Stay tuned for War Room.
