You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Thursday, October 25, 2018.
Now, just 12 days out.
And every day that the Democrats see a red tidal wave coming in,
the more cornered and dangerous these criminals are,
and the more desperate they are, the more dangerous they are.
Everybody better be watching their six.
Right now, in praying to God on your knees for a human awakening
and that this great evil finally be defeated.
I've got stacks of you in mainline analysts saying that the Democrats win this election.
They are still way behind in becoming a regional party on the verge of collapse.
But if they lose this election, they're done.
And you're going to have the blue blood version of Republicans and the Tea Party populist.
The Democrats have been trying to extinct the Republican Party
and wanting to have a new Communist wing, a socialist middle,
and a kind of fake right wing purple Democrat version
that plays the part of loyal opposition.
But it is an epic moment.
Now, I have talked to FBI agents.
I know I've talked to ordinance experts from the Army.
I know from the Marine Corps.
I know people that have worked for the CIA,
people that have both disarmed bombs
and people that have been experts at assembling bombs.
I've also talked to a friend of mine who's the former head of a major city bomb squad.
He is in private practice now.
I mean, a lot of phone calls last night today.
And they've all said what experts are even on NBC.
I couldn't believe it.
And even on CNN and even on Fox Business,
they're saying these aren't real bombs.
Explosives, you know, inside plastic doesn't do anything.
Shards of glass.
These look like exactly what bombs look like in Hollywood movies.
These look like props.
And notice who's getting them.
Robert De Niro and all these other Democrats and all these other actors.
Because whoever did this didn't want to actually kill anybody.
And notice none of the bombs ever detonated.
None of them ever exploded.
I could go to the store right now and get some road flares and some black tape
and put an egg timer on it, pull the case off just at the outside,
put an egg timer on it and wave that around and say,
we just got this bomb.
We just got this bomb.
And then, oh, wait.
Oh, another libertarian conservative nationalist got one.
Oh my gosh, it must be the Democrats who sent it.
Let me write a New York op-ed piece how it's Alex Jones and Donald Trump's fault.
And you see the Democrats foaming at the mouth everywhere
about killing the president, killing his family, killing talk show hosts,
killing Congress, Scalise deserved it, editor of major publication.
There's so many examples we've become numb to it.
And then right on time, 14 days out, Soros gets one because he's the kingpin.
He gets the most sympathy.
He's first.
He's taking a lot of heat right now.
And then the Clintons and then Obama and it's all hierarchical.
Everybody gets the attention.
It's like getting a medal.
Oh, they've been in combat.
Second day of devices, targets, dims, critics of Trump.
De Niro gets one.
Cuomo calls in the National Guard.
Oh my gosh.
See, he's declaring an emergency ahead of the election.
He's having mid-press conferences.
Woman holds fake.
News fake bombs.
Signs outside Florida debate.
That's right.
And everybody's saying it's fake, including law enforcement,
but that's almost getting no attention.
We'll break it all down, play the clips.
They've got the former deputy director of the FBI coming out saying,
the motive is the Democrats, plus the bombs are fake.
The bombs are fake.
The bombs are fake.
They wouldn't blow your fingers off.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut
with prebiotic fiber by InfoWarsLife.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health
with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut
to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
InfoWarsLife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality,
organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
No, it's not the 12 days of Christmas.
It's the 12 days to the most important election in world history,
a referendum on nationalism versus tyranny and globalism.
And just like putting pie, just like the sun coming up in the morning,
do I need to go back and get the clips six months ago,
three months ago, a month ago, a week ago when I said,
you watch, I think two weeks before the election,
they're going to begin plunging the stock market.
Why? Because they follow patterns and they do the same thing because it worked in 2008.
They did the exact same thing two weeks before a general election.
The very same interest.
The private, globalist, European-owned Federal Reserve.
Got a story linked on drudgerreport.com right now.
Stock market crash.
The Dow has plunged 2,368 points from the peak of the market.
And when they raised interest rates four times,
Trump said, stop it.
You didn't do that much during all of Obama.
And the economy's not sure to, sure it up yet.
Stop it.
And now they've done it eight times and he's like, stop it.
And they've signaled they're going to do it five more times in the next six months to a year.
Oh, and the European central bank,
the ECB that owns much of the Federal Reserve,
but that's all secret.
Only the details came out in 1913.
That's the basics we know from 104 years ago.
This is private multinational consortium.
Now the ECB announced they're not going to print any liquidity into the market.
And the Chinese suddenly are announcing they're cutting liquidity into markets
to tank the global market because they believe who will it hurt?
DJT.
DJT.
Because you know what DJT is doing?
He's saying, look, if you got a 50% tariff on us, we're going to have one on you.
If we got zero, we got zero.
You got a 280% tariff on our milk and cheese, just billions a year.
We'll put one on you.
But, and the fact that they've been raping us and having their way with us forever
is completely out of control.
And they have built this whole world government by sucking us dry.
And so to complete their system, they've got to kick populist out.
And so anywhere, the central banks are still in control, but patriots have been elected from places like Greece, to Italy, to the UK, to the United States,
to other areas, they're trying to kill the markets as well.
Now again, these are big bubbles.
They're out of control.
I mean, Trump is letting us ride a bubble that's actually building industry and jobs and confidence.
We were going to have the bubble regardless.
We're not getting out of this now.
The only way to do it is to create such a big economy and have new boom technologies and suppressed medicine and suppressed technological systems and suppressed weapon technologies.
One area I think Trump's getting a little dangerous, but he's lobbying behind the scenes to start showing folks the real weapons we've got that will start a huge arms race.
I think that's the smart way to get the economy going.
Trump's a little wild when it comes to that, but he's probably smarter than I am.
You know, he only ran for office once and became President of the United States.
He's already changed the world in less than two years.
But these powerful forces are striking back in a big, big, big way.
And that's how I could predict that they were going to start doing false flags against themselves two weeks out.
I'm on record, played the clip yesterday, I said two weeks out is when I think they'll pull it.
It'll start there and get really crazy.
And I said two weeks out, they'll start plunging the stock market because I've seen what they do.
I know how they operate.
The very same players bombed Oklahoma City and were caught red handed.
So that's how we know all of this. Oh, and they're so upset, ladies and gentlemen, that we're tomorrow's news today.
You see, they do pre-programming at almost a subliminal level in TV and in fiction and in nonfiction and in print and on so-called news to get you ready for what's coming.
Well, I can see the programming.
Anybody could, if you're conscious.
That's the whole secret to this. Have a memory, be conscious, read some history books and it'll be like, this is ridiculous.
Why did everybody all see this?
Because people are thinking about their job, their kids, what they do.
They're specialized in whatever their particular job is.
We're all specialists.
Well, my specialty is not being a specialist and studying how globalists and different governments operate.
And they've all got different fingerprints, they've got different signatures the way the left operates, the way classical liberals operate versus the way conservatives operate versus the way all these different permutations operate.
And so let me give you the big news in my view.
They are launching major attacks to shut this economy down and they think we're stupid and it will blame Trump.
I think if they plunge the economy and are able to do that, like Bill Maher and others said they wanted to do,
it's going to blow up even worse in their face and I think it's going to really fundamentally piss people off to another level.
They're not going to get away with this, even though it looks like they're going to go ahead and try to pull it.
In fact, they are pulling it. It's bad.
This false flag was done though, and this is the good news, where I kept saying, how are they going to attack the media when the media is in on it and kill their own people and have it believable?
And so they just went with a total hoax of 10 plastic fake bombs off a Hollywood set.
And instantly, all these former top FBI agents, deputy heads, heads of counterterrorism, you name it, are all coming out saying this isn't a real bomb,
the way it got mailed, who it targets, look at the motive, look at how they're pre-programming and saying we're going to attack the media when conservatives aren't.
Look at how they're really the ones pushing all the violence in the left.
And so the good news is, if you go on any mainline newspaper's comments section, 80% of it is this is a false flag, this is fake, this is ridiculous, this is incredible.
And the way the corporate media, the established media jumped on it and just absolutely drills it in that it's real and it's the end of the world,
and let's call out the National Guard, and we're all dead when no one's died.
They were trial ballooning this to make them all the victims two weeks out, and if we bought it hook, line, and sinker, they were going to stage some really big real attacks.
And they not even pawned sacrifice and take a few of their own people out who didn't know it was going to happen.
So we're not out of the woods yet, but right now everything they're doing is turning to absolute crap, and they're the ones calling for violence everywhere and then trying to say we are.
And then they're blaming me. They're saying my rhetoric is to blame in hundreds of publications.
You type in Alex Jones' bomb, Alex Jones' pipe bomb, into Bing, into Duck Duck Go, into Google, and I mean it's hundreds of stories blaming me.
And then saying, oh, and how dare he say the Democrats might be behind it? How dare he say that bears go bathroom in the woods? How dare he say Trump has orange hair?
I mean, I'm saying real things. Everybody knows it. Common sense default two weeks out. The bombs aren't real. They're all pity partying.
They're all lined up to go and exploit it and yell and scream and freak out and blame everybody and call it at the end of the First Amendment.
And Alexander Soros has been caught running anti-fine nationwide, trying to cause martial law in the documents, talks about how we're full of hate and how we're going to cause all of this hate and all of this death.
It is ridiculous. No one is buying this. No one would have a brain. Only the politicos in the NPR and the CNN and the New York Times bubble chamber.
They're in their little echo chamber believing they're crap. No one's buying it. You plunged the economy. We know you did it. You openly bragging you did it.
The fellow reserved it. Foreign bank, of course. You stage a big event. We know it's you. We know it's you. You're murdering lying, scumbag criminals with a long history of it.
So you're done. America's awake. It's over. It's over for you. We'll be back.
In these uncertain times, it makes sense to have a sustainable backup method to cook food and boil water. If your current plan includes using a fuel-burning stove or cooking over an open fire, then there's a much better way.
The Minuteman Rocket Stove is a biomass-burning cooking stove that only requires small quantities of sticks and twigs for fuel. The Minuteman Stove is easy to use, smokeless, portable, powerful, and sustainable.
For the finest in survival cooking stoves and fire starters made right here in the USA, go to MinutemanStove.com. That's MinutemanStove.com.
The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world. George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken.
Its former colony, the U.S., had to save the empire. Was there ever a vote? Who do we fight for? The deep state began with World War I, the United States of Empire, by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberky.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653, goberky.com.
For years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions, we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is paired with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions, Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend, infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
Patriot Blend Coffee Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Pregnantone product. It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, and healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantone base, the real red pill, could become one of our fellow InfoWater's favorite products.
With an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including Regie extract and Ramate leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstore.com.
We are back broadcasting worldwide. I am your host, Alex Jones.
We're about to get into the huge news where former deputy directors of the FBI, former heads of bomb squads, are all coming out saying these bombs didn't detonate.
They were meant to scare people. They're not real bombs. They look like fake soft movie sets. You don't build a pipe bomb with PBC.
You don't put stickers on them with a political message because obviously, what's a real bomb, it's meant to blow up. You don't want to leave clues. This is insane.
Former FBI assistant director, bomb plot culprit, could be someone who's trying to get the Democrat vote out and incur sympathy, exactly, and make all these demonized figures who deserve to be demonized look like the victims.
And then we've got law enforcement official, examiners think male bomb could have been hoax devices. What did we say yesterday with Matt Bracken, who's a former ordnance specialist Navy SEAL bestselling author?
Those aren't real bombs. They don't even have caps on the end. It appears there's not even gunpowder in them, they're saying.
It's a bunch of shards of glass inside a tube that even if you had explosive in it, it would just shove it out the ends where the bunch of smoke might burn your hand.
But we're not even sure that they had any powder in them. They're now basically saying they didn't.
Hoax devices. Now they've censored myself and thousands of other prominent nationalist Christians and conservatives and just common sense folks ahead of the midterms so they could have air superiority on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google, you name it.
So that they could put out all these incredible lies and have us just believe it. But they can't stop DrudgeReport.com. They can't stop InfoWars.com. And most importantly, they can't stop you going to the sites and getting the articles that they don't want you to see and getting them out, like DrudgeReport.com has done.
So what happens at DrudgeReport.com? I said two weeks ago on air that I would expect DrudgeReport.com. I remember saying it to be the next target because they already think that they've demonized me enough.
And guess who they blame? MSNBC suggests Mailbomb Suspect reads DrudgeReport and Fox News. Ben Collins. So I thought I'd search engine at this morning and see where else he was being blamed.
So many hits. I didn't even try to look at it. Then I forgot about it. That was at 6am. I get into the office and I see three articles blaming Matt Drudge or, oh, he read, well, yeah, it's the number one new site in the world, the second largest site in the world, period.
I'm saying, yeah, he drove by and saw the capital. So it's the capital's fault. They're getting it ready for this patsy. I'm telling you, they're gearing it up.
Now, the MO from Matt Bracken and others who's proven frighteningly accurate, Matt has, and the other sources I have that are off record, says that it looks like cat lady brigade level bottom of the barrel, even for Antifa, thinking they've got to save Hillary and all these people and that they may have even
their level direction been tricked into acting alone. And then now we've got to watch out. They may kill the ringleader of it because there's probably at least five people involved and then plant pro Trump paraphernalia at the site.
So whoever did this, you better give a press conference and go public. They're probably already all dead. I mean, if you look at the different angles of this, if they use low level patsy, which this looks like they're probably already dead.
And then they're going to have it lead back with clues to some mentally ill person that they'll plant Trump paraphernalia on. I mean, that's that's how the MO that's usually works.
That's that's one of the major permutations we run into over the years when they run something like this and they're using idiots to carry it out so that they can have plausible deniability.
But the timing and everything shows high level direction, but they wanted to keep their hands clean. So they used a bunch of bumbling ding dongs.
So that's what it looks like to us.
Yeah, here's another CNN former bomb disposal officers on CNN bomb thing that is just silly looking goes on to say it isn't a real bomb.
And there's so many of these my head spinning. Lou Dobbs comes out says it's a fake bomb.
Law enforcement comes out says it's a fake bomb.
We're going to go through all the people saying that and the specifics and play the videos when we come back from break.
But know this, their Pocahontas DNA thing blew up in their face.
They're totally fake, in my view, impeached women who perjured themselves according to all the witnesses in front of Congress trying to shoot down Kavanaugh.
This is all been blowing up in their face.
Because people know they're a pack of lying villains running this.
And so now I just asked, what are they going to do next? Because these globalists are so out of their minds that they thought Hillary Clinton could win.
And I told you months ago and again two weeks ago, I've talked to high level sources that let's just say watch Hillary very, very closely.
I mean, we're talking high level CIA, high level folks, and Hillary is running.
And is telling the Democrats, I can roll the party and I can roll the super delegates out of the way.
And that's why you saw them come out in Salon and in Vanity Fair and in Atlantic Monthly and in Politico and say, we hate you, you're horrible, go away.
About a week after I told you that, three weeks ago, you noticed they all came out and said, stop it, go away.
And then you saw this week, she says she's not going away and she's going to run.
That's how crazy she is.
So it's good that she's an idiot and that Pelosi's an idiot and Maxine Waters is a senile idiot, but it's also dangerous because these people are crazy and think they're invincible.
So they're all saying, we hate you, just go away, just type in Hillary Clinton, just go away, click news.
Hillary Clinton, you're killing us. She won't go away. She's an egomaniac psychotic whose illusions of grandeur came true over and over again.
She's already been co-president in two administrations over four terms. That's how many years?
That's a long time, baby. That's 16 years she's been president.
Dear God, Hillary Clinton, please, just go. You can go by truck, you can go by ship, you can go by train, you can go by plane, you can go by helicopter, you can go by crunk car.
Just go, go, go, whatever you do, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. But you won't go, go, go.
So the Democrats would reform themselves and stop being the, we hate America party. But that's who they are.
All right, start your engines. There's Politico. How do we solve a problem with Hillary?
She's a perfect God for you people. You're an evil American hating party. They are the party that hates America.
They're the invader party. They're the globalist party. They kill the party. They're gone. They're over, or we are.
They go on TV on every channel and say, to say Nationalist is the most evil thing in the universe.
They're totally disconnected in their own psychotic university and CNN bubbles.
We'll be back with a critical intel, infowars.com.
To secure your spot, text JOIN to 44055. This event is the first of its kind ever.
John Boehner and an esteemed panel will reveal which cannabis stocks are primed to deliver life-changing windfalls in the weeks and months ahead.
Plus, they will show you how to become a cannabis angel investor backing the hottest startups before they potentially become worth billions of dollars.
To join American Cannabis Summit, text JOIN to 44055. Attendance is free.
Text JOIN to 44055.
To secure your spot, text JOIN to 44055.
To secure your spot, text JOIN to 44055.
To secure your spot, text JOIN to 44055.
To secure your spot, text JOIN to 44055.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, infowars life has the formula for you.
To secure your spot, text JOIN to 44055.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high-quality krill oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil.
Now available at infowarsstore.com.
You thought the lead in winter would bring you down forever, but you rode upon a steamer to the violence of the sun.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
If you want to know what krill oil can do for you, you can find the link in the description below.
If you want to know what krill oil can do for you, you can find the link in the description below.
Now I have another clip I want to get to here from NBC News.
We've also got a CNN News saying the same thing, because you can get the regular pundits to sit up there and lie.
But professionals who are bomb squad experts or FBI agents that have been training us, they're not going to get up there and in front of all their colleagues sound like a liar or an idiot.
They're going to tell you, these aren't real bombs, none of them went off, they were meant to scare people, they had stickers on them that were political messages of who they wanted to frame.
That's what all the M.O. points at, then you have the timing, you have the motive, and you have the people that got mailed the bombs.
George Soros and his son's compound, one of many, Bill and Hillary Clinton's compound, Barack Obama, Eric Holder.
I mean, these people have all been involved in overthrowing governments and staging events and lying and saying that Hillary was shot at an airplane and shot it on the ground and they had to run into the bunkers and none of it was true.
And she admits it's a lie, and they're like Brian Williams, but a hundred times worse.
These people will do anything. And so they have the motive, they have the timing, the things are clearly fake, they're inert.
The Hill's reporting woman holds fake news, fake bombs, sign out Florida, governor's debate.
Again, the public gets it, and that's the power of you showing up at a governor's debate and holding up a sign because everyone resonates with it and people get it.
You're more important than I am because there's more of you.
Matt Rudge always says any blogger who breaks a real story on a little website or a huge website is just as important as the New York Times if you're out there on the ground telling the truth.
You're just as important, but you're more important because there's more of you than there are of Alex Jones and Matt Rudge.
So go to the Democrat rallies, hold up signs, and if they get violent with you, take one for the team, show their violence, put it out.
They're the violent ones. We're not. They're trying to frame us.
The fact that they're violent, they've got illegal alien caravans, UN, Soros funded slamming into us.
And the fact that the polls show, even internal polls, that they're going way down and that this could be a huge red wave despite all their election fraud, they don't know what to do.
Let's go to the NBC piece. Here it is.
So by our count nine so far, including two sent to Maxine Waters, one that was found in LA, one in the Washington DC center that scans mail for Congress. And we're told by several officials that fortunately the devices they've been able to examine so far appear to have been poorly made.
They apparently contain a number of flaws, which for obvious reasons we won't be specific about.
Now there's no way to know if that was intentional and attempt to make bombs that looked real or whether it was simply the result of the bomb maker's mistakes.
It takes time to analyze these devices and to get a good answer on why they didn't work and how they were constructed. That's not going to come immediately, but they are working at it around the clock.
Now Pete, the hunt is on right now to find whoever the person or persons are who sent this. So what are investigators doing?
So first of all you have the bombs themselves, analyzed at the FBI lab. They're looking for traces of evidence, DNA, fibers, hair, anything that would identify who did this.
And they're also looking to trace where the components made from. At least four of these packages, the ones sent to the Clintons, the Obamas, Eric Holder, Congresswoman Waters, were sent through the mail.
So those packages were postmarked and that's important because those marks contain important information that could be used to help figure out not only what city they came from, but perhaps what post office handled them.
And when they know that, they'll look at surveillance video from the date when it's believed they were sent.
Well, except these weren't sent in the mail. They were hand delivered.
Now I've got a whole article at infowars.com and newswars.com that it's critical everybody send out from newswars.com.
That gets around the censors better than the dreaded infowars.com.
Law enforcement official examiners think mail bombs could have been hoax devices made to look like bombs, seeing movies or TV, but not meant to explode.
And then it's got other experts on CNN and all over having to admit it.
So this is clearly with the motive and the background and the timing about making people that are part of the establishment and anti Trump look like victims.
So they can say criticism of them is causing violence, which was the pre programming of all the corporate establishment globalist media for months and months blaming Trump and myself.
And sure enough, ladies and gentlemen, I have a stack of news here blaming Trump and yours truly.
When we come back, we'll go over it and play some more of the clips.
Lou Dobbs has also come out and said that the suspicious packages are fake.
And then he's talked to experts that tell him they're clearly fake.
And that's exactly what Matt Bracken and other experts have told us.
But these stories on newswars.com and prisonplanet.com are absolutely essential to get out to everyone you know.
They are all over MPR. I was listening to MPR at 6am this morning monitoring enemy transmissions.
And I was listening to it driving into work at like 945.
And they were kept saying the crazy Republicans say it's a false flag, but they're behind it.
Trump's behind it. He's the one calling for violence.
No, you're the ones calling for violence.
We have new articles out today in the New York Times writing op-eds fantasizing about Trump's assassination today.
It's every day, everywhere, where if you try to categorize all the examples of them calling for violence, it makes your head spin.
Then they lie about me and say that I say go kill the media with battle rifles.
But queue up that Lester Holt for later. I want to play that.
I didn't use the Lester Holt because it's the one clip we pulled in. It was just all over the news.
Every channel.
Joan says kill the media.
And Brian Stelter would shake his head and Coma would shake his head.
And why is this man allowed on air?
And no one's asking. They just said Alex Jones says kill them.
Show the video.
Show it you lying garbage.
You criminal. God.
Excuse me.
I just...
You know, if I tell you somebody said something, I play the clip, don't I?
I show them the article.
They don't do that.
I've over the $1 million reward.
If you can find it, they can't.
What does that tell you?
These people are suspect of everything.
They are the scum of the earth.
And they think you're morons.
I'm going to stop right there.
I haven't even plugged once an hour on average now.
Because I'm so focused on the news and a few weeks out.
We need your financial support.
Plus, we make it easy.
You want the very best horrible food.
We got a best sale ever.
35% off of my Patriot supply.
Super high quality.
Good to have that back up in case they kill the Trump recovery and things go south,
which could happen.
I hate to be, you know, negative, but I'm certainly stocked up and up in my security
and emergency supplies, quite frankly.
Plan, you know, for the worst, hope for the best.
We've got all the high quality products on the site.
Free shipping.
And 30% off on all the supplements.
Thousands and thousands of five-star reviews, except for two of our new products that just came out
that don't have any new reviews yet, but are amazing.
Regulized, complete, and gut fusion.
Those are incredible.
But ultimate bone broth.
Bodies, ultimate tumor formula.
They are the ultimate formulas.
The best, the strongest, the best price.
Alpha Power.
Strongest male, female enhancement.
Stamina, libido energy.
It'll blow you away.
It's all 50% off.
DNA Force Plus.
Incredible.
PQQ.
CoQ10.
Super strong formula.
50% off.
Rain Force Plus.
50% off.
X2, the last run of it.
50% off.
Toothpaste.
50% off.
Fluoride Free.
Infowarsstore.com.
Infowarslife.com.
Get your Christmas shopping in now.
Get smart and secure the Infowar into the future.
Without you, we're done.
We are in your hands.
I am in your hands.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are
for the future of humanity right now.
Infowars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party,
left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department,
and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating
and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us,
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
Infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up
against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at Infowarsstore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart
and get stuff shipped out to you,
trying to block our commerce and your right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Soros and Globals may win.
This is Infowars Darker Sour.
We hear your support. I'm counting on you.
I want to thank you.
But you're also getting really great products like X2,
the last run of it.
Secret 12, Amazing Vitality V12, the highest quality.
Brainforce Plus, now 20% more.
It's all 50% off at Infowarsstore.com and free shipping.
But it's got to end by this weekend
because so many of the great products are running low,
like Knockout, the Great Sleep Aid,
like Ultimate Bone Broth Formula.
Nobody can get it at that price.
But you are the folks that have stood with us.
So it's a 360 win-win.
And Infowarsstore.com or AAA-253-3139.
Please take action.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage.
And that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest
nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
$25, $50, $100, $250, even $500 would be a godsend
to our important work here to beat back the globalists
and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
And with your help spreading it,
we are unstoppable.
We are going to take a look at the next few days.
We are selling out a lot of our best-selling products.
And we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now.
Free shipping store-wide.
50% off on all the supplements.
35% off on the highest quality storeable foods at Infowarsstore.com right now.
You support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy,
which infuriates them.
You know how scared they were of all those live videos
of 90% of the Trump supporters being huge Infowars supporters?
It scared them to death.
It's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
The good terms rapidly approaching.
Bearing down on us.
A lot of Democrats are on edge.
Especially today, because a serial bomber has sent explosive devices
to Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton,
major Democratic donor George Soros,
Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz,
Maxine Waters, and CNN.
Authorities don't have a suspect yet,
but based on the intended targets they have released this sketch.
America great again.
So we specifically predicted that when they launched their false flags,
be they duds or be they real,
that they would blame CNN because that's been who Trump's been mainly focused on.
It's all out of the central casting.
And now former deputy director of the FBI has come out and said,
they're the prime suspect.
The left's staging this against themselves to get sympathy.
Like Trump said, remember his first emergency state of the union?
It wasn't even a regular state of the union.
He'd been in office two weeks.
He said, I'm not anti-Semitic and I condemn the attacks on Jewish centers.
Because he'd said a weeks before, well, I'm told by sources it's probably staged.
Well, they knew who the suspect was.
They busted him a week after the speech.
The young leftist Jewish guy was running around pushing over gravestones,
defacing Jewish centers to make Trump look anti-Semitic, which is just asinine.
It's insane.
It calls me anti-Semitic.
I am anti-leftist Jew.
I'm anti-leftist Chinese.
I'm anti-leftist English.
I'm anti-leftist Mexican.
I am really sick of leftists.
Yes, but I'm not against Jews.
Jews are diverse people, just like every other group.
There are some Chinese I don't like.
There are some Chinese I love.
There are some Texans, you know, black, white that I love.
There are some I don't love.
And I can tell you, I don't like Soros who help round up fellow Jews.
And the fact that he doesn't believe Israel should exist and wants to destroy Israel.
And for that, I'm called anti-Semitic.
But let me digress.
I kind of went down a rabbit trail there.
We have MSNBC saying that the mail bomb suspect reads,
This is all out of central casting just like we predicted.
Because they keep saying, we're going to be attacked and it's Trump and Alex Jones' fault.
Hollywood blames bombs on Trump, make America great again,
radicalized more domestic terrorists than ISIS.
This from the weather underground inspired Hollywood.
Right-wing pundits are already spinning Clinton Obama bomb hoax conspiracy.
Chief amongst them, Alex Jones.
The Observer.
Alex Jones has taken over the Republican Party.
The Alex Jones' accusation of the right is now complete.
Patheos finally gets it right.
Yes, people are reality based now.
I got to a Trump rally, 90% are rabid fans and I'm fans of them.
Yes, yes, we already beat you culturally.
The circle is now complete.
But I intend to go on fighting you.
But it is good to know that we've got a lot of hurdles to cross,
but awakening the giant, that part of the mission,
I've already completed that mission thanks to God's graces
and the listeners and viewers that built the platform for us to do it.
You did it listeners.
You are in the arena.
Just like a woman working in a factory putting together bombs
and throwing together uniforms is helping the men win the war
back in World War II or Vietnam or whatever the case was.
You supporting me whether you be a man or woman is absolute tip of the spear.
Fox News channels Alex Jones calls bombs false flag.
Oh, I haven't gotten to that video clip.
Let's grab that one. There's so many I forget.
Right wing commentators are already decided that the explosive packages are a false flag.
Trump allies insist bomb threats against Clinton, Obama, CNN are pure BS, false flag.
There's literally hundreds of these articles.
Trump lovers are already claiming explosives devices sent to Obama, Clinton, CNN are false flags.
Well, you're already blaming us and you have the motive and the history.
Alex Jones bombs, Liberty Democrats are a false flag, trillion percent.
And it goes on and on and on.
And then I've got the articles where they blame me.
I've got a whole stack of those we'll get to later where they blame me
and say my rhetoric from Mother Jones to MSNBC to CNN.
I've got a whole stack of those saying it's my fault.
It's my fault.
It's my fault. All this is happening.
After all, Jim Carrey said so.
How experts trace a homemade bomb to its source.
And the first line is people cost hatred towards George Soros, Holocaust survivor, hero.
And then you've got the Nazi Alex Jones who talked bad about him and President Trump.
First line of the article, it's Alex Jones and Donald Trump.
It's all our fault. Right there. You see that?
But here they are a few months ago getting you already lying about me saying that I was calling for violence,
getting the ground laid. You can see the whole PR campaign. Here it is.
Twitter's CEO is standing by the company's decision to put info wars as Alex Jones on a seven-day suspension.
This comes after Jones urged his Twitter followers to ready their battle rifles, as he put it,
against the media in a video posted to the site.
Alex Jones on Twitter posted this week what essentially is a video calling for people
to get their battle rifles ready against the media.
People need to have their battle rifles and everything ready. They're bedside.
You've got to be ready.
Saying it's time to act. It's got to be done now. Move criminally against people.
It's time politically and economically and judiciously and legally and criminally to move against these people.
It's got to be done now.
It's kind of chill up my spine. How about yours?
It did. I mean, there's a number of actions that we believe help a call to incitement of violence
and those are the things that we need to.
We're taking action now.
Now is the time to act on the mainstream media and he says get the battle rifles ready.
I didn't say that.
That incites violence. Free speech does not protect inciting violence.
This is an emergency message to President Trump, to Congress and to anyone that supports free speech in this country.
The Democratic Party is now calling for all Republicans, all patriots, including the President,
to be de-platformed from Google, Facebook, Twitter, Apple, you name it.
And Jones is hardly their only target. That's for sure.
Virtually every day the big tech companies censor someone else whose political opinions they disagree with.
Facebook censor our free speech and shame on the ones that don't even seem that we have been censored.
This is a new super political class that operate as a judiciary and as the police and as the prison guards to control our lives.
This is classical authoritarianism.
For many on the left, the view seems to have become that if you can't beat them, prevent them from speaking.
You've taken action against him in this instance. Can you tell us what it is?
I believe we put him in a timeout.
Alex Jones is not an eighth grader who got busted smoking in the bathroom.
Right.
It's just not. I mean, he's the guy who is doing alt-right conspiracy theories.
It's absolutely amazing that this is what caused the ban and not everything that Alex Jones has done before.
It seems minor compared to the implications of someone suggesting a call to arms against a particular group in this case, the media.
And I didn't say use weapons on the media. I don't want them to have weapons used on them. That'll make them victims.
I'm worried they're going to false flag and stage something on themselves.
And then they're going to send antifa out to all our houses, which they're doxing everybody saying they are.
And I said defensively be prepared to defend yourself. And they say that is inciting violence. No, it's not.
Is that a chill up my spine?
I'm getting chills right now. He said come with the battle rivals, engage in criminal activity.
And I said use the judicial system legally and lawfully and go after the criminal.
They have got to get a lid on this.
And the idea of martyrdom, it's also probably interesting that it will be interesting to see who rallies around his cause.
Let's remember Donald Trump, if you guys appeared on his show.
President also entering the fray today, he said, quote, I won't mention names, but when they take certain people off of Twitter or Facebook,
and they're making that decision, that is really a dangerous thing because it could be you tomorrow.
And we're also standing up to social media censorship. That's the new thing.
Trump's election and Alex Jones's popularity are merely symptoms of a corrupt and failed status quo.
People know what's true. They can smell it. You can't stop them from knowing that.
But this isn't about Alex Jones. This is about freedom.
Mr. President, you don't want to look like you're after the press of the First Amendment.
You're letting them butcher the press of the First Amendment.
Oh, but you don't want to look authoritarian and stand up to them.
They're authoritarian. They're a clear and present danger. Do something about it.
That was my message to Trump interspersed. We had to play that message. It freaked him out so bad.
It was like 35 minutes, and I just laid out all the proof, their statements, their plans, and I said, do something.
And they know the president listens, especially when you magnify the message and get it to him, because you are the resistance.
Don't forget, free shipping store-wide and 50% off on all the supplements. It ends this Sunday because the special's got to end.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarstore.com.
Please, whatever you do, realize that we're all getting punch-drunk to the censorship. And you saw 18 Twitter accounts, they say affiliated with InfoWars.
Yes, some of them are like little side accounts. They even know we had, like, InfoWars stores that just showed our products.
But they just banned them all yesterday in punishment that I be in a Trump rally and be mobbed by all these folks that loved us.
Your excitement about America, your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country and the world back from the brink.
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky. I want to keep going. I want to make them do the ultimate, not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way. I've committed to do that. I've prayed for that, and I've been told that's going to happen.
But you've got to back us, and I promise you this. I will never falter. I will never waver at the spiritual level. I physically will.
But I give you my commitment, if you financially support us, at foreshore.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
All right, Matt Bracken is a smart dude, former Navy SEAL munitions expert, vestiling author.
And what he said yesterday on the show was the first person to start saying that these bombs look fake.
None of them went off. It looks like it is a total hoax.
Well, now you've got the former deputy director of the FBI, assistant deputy director. You've got all these other bomb experts, even on CNN, MSNBC, NBC, Shane.
This all looks fake. So next segment, he's going to be joining us. There's Matt Bracken right there getting ready.
And we're going to go through this and then get his take on what's next because I agree with him, especially in hindsight now, 48 hours into this fiasco starting.
No one, I know, believes this. I had liberal women come up to me in an art supply place with my daughters last night and say, hey, we used to be big liberals and we still are socially, but you're right.
This is so fake. You know, we saw them setting you up saying you were going to cause violence and now it's happening.
I mean, it's the pre-programming. Trump's going to kill us. Alex is going to kill us.
And then they all get mailed these plastic bombs that don't even have caps on them. They're not even saying there's explosive in it.
And it's just ridiculous. And it's all these politicos. But don't worry. It's also how they're blaming Matt Drudge on MSNBC.
See, because they've been hitting me really hard. They're going to move on now to their real targets. Sure, I'm big.
And we're effective because the audience is patriots and you can get messages to the president and you can punch through, but they really don't like Matt Drudge.
Okay. You imagine having the number two biggest website in the world, the largest news site in the world.
And even though places like the New York Times admit half their traffic's from Drudge, they still hate him.
And they lobby all over the news to have him shut down saying, he links the stories. That's a campaign donation.
Well, I almost agree with them. I was Drudge. I know he's being fair. I wouldn't be like, how am I telling Drudge what to do?
But, you know, you got the Washington Post, the New York Times, all these places that are attacking Drudge.
And I've made the point, boy, that's really high road when he links to them, even though they're trying to destroy it.
But whatever. The point is, is that they're now moving on to their other targets, Trump and Drudge.
Trump and Drudge, because you couldn't have Trump without Drudge.
And everything they see as underpinning Trump is being hacked away, hacked away, hacked away.
And really the big news I'm going to cover in the third hour after Matt Bracken leaves us is the stock market plunging
and how they admit, the Democrats admit they wanted to plunge it.
And the Federal Reserve that's private and foreign owned, 80% of it, is trying to raise interest rates to do it.
And now it's working. And the left's like, how dare you say we shouldn't raise interest rates?
Shut up. We'll show you. This economy's not going to be long lived.
You know, that's a powerful compilation we ought to put together, not just of Bill Maher saying we need to have a depression to punish Trump
and punish his supporters as long as the good times are rolling and they see anti-globalist policies.
You can bring back some jobs to America, some oxygen back to the room.
We ought to get all the clips of the last two years, because then he started getting better right when he got elected.
You can see the graphs where just boom, confidence is going down like this, and then suddenly it's like boom, boom, goes up.
And they're trying to put the brakes on that right now. And it's so powerful, all the clips that I've seen, we played them here and there,
but you'll have an economic personality like, well, the economy's up, that's Obama's or, well, it's up a little bit in the first quarter,
but it'll go back down and then about a year later. Well, he's only had one quarter of growth and the expert goes,
well, actually it's been four quarters of growth. You can just see them cheerleading and cheerleading and cheerleading and now getting excited.
Oh, will this hurting? And the Chinese stop dumping stimulus into their stock market, which there's this way down more than ours,
which drugged us down some, and the European Central Bank privately owed its cut that as well.
So they're doing everything to try to put the dampers on this, and to me, that's a huge scandal.
Yeah, the whole thing's a bubble anyways, but when they're trying to pop the bubble to hurt us and to make us think Trump did it,
that's called economic terrorism, isn't it?
But I want to be a market leader, and I want you to have storeable food, so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back at m4store.com, on m4, select storeable foods.
They've got special diet foods. They've got three month supplies, your supplies, weak emergency supplies.
They've got so many great products there. Maybe you got a three-year supply.
If stuff happens, you can feed your whole block. It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
You're buying war bonds, bringing great products, and together with God's help, we are unstoppable.
m4store.com, and m4, select high-quality storeable foods, powered by my Patriot supply.
Some police guy says, you know, they appeared viable. The mainstream media runs that as they were viable bombs.
Well, yeah, they appeared on the outside like it could be, but as soon as you appeal them apart, they're a joke.
Sure, so just as you said, they're now basically dummy bombs, and so this fits into the narrative that all these top Democrats get mailed as to change the narrative.
The Democrats now, ladies and gentlemen, have openly come out and blamed Trump for the hoax pipe bombs.
And they have come out and blamed me, and I already covered those articles earlier.
All right, that's from a clip last night. There's also clips up on m4store.com in the second hour of the show.
The former Navy SEAL Ordnance Expert, best-selling author Matt Bracken of enemiesfarmdomestic.com joined us.
Now we have the former FBI Assistant Director, bomb plot culprit, evidence points towards being someone who's trying to get the Democratic vote out and incur sympathy.
That's the MO, that's the history. The bombs appear to be fake. That's CNN, MSNBC.
Every bomb expert they have on says they appear to be fake. They appear to be just to create fear.
So it's a bomb scare. It's a bomb scare. Most bomb attacks are bomb scares.
Someone mails in a fake bomb, or they act like they're assembling a bomb to get attention, and then get kicked out of school, and then sue people about it.
So this is what goes on over and over again. But now we've got Lou Dobbs talking about it, and we've got law enforcement officials, examiners.
I think mail bombs were hoax devices. Well, Matt Bracken said that yesterday.
But meanwhile, if you question that, MSNBC, CNN, NPR say you're the worst person on earth. My God, you know, none of these 10 devices blew up, which we're glad they didn't.
But it's like throwing fake poop down at somebody at a party. It's like a gag.
But don't worry though, they're blaming us out of the gates and saying my rhetoric against Soros in Newsweek and Mother Jones and everywhere. It's my fault.
But simultaneously, I need to just take the blame, and so does Matt Rudge, and so does the President.
The President says it's the media calling for my assassination. It's the media calling for violence.
So this is a mess, and I agree with Bracken that the wheels are coming off. Everything they're doing is falling apart because here's the deal.
They're not in control anymore. They're not able to stage an Oklahoma City and then it control the event.
They're somewhat out of power now, and as Trump is able to get more control over the Justice Department, less and less can they run a sophisticated operation.
So this has really blown up in their face, but they're going ahead with it. Matt Bracken, you predicted so much of what's already unfolded.
What are the latest observations, and what do you expect for them to pull next?
One thing to keep in mind is the FBI, the Task Force, so it's FBI, ATF, Secret Service, NYPD, they might already have a suspect and he's under intensive surveillance
because they're not going to arrest them the minute that they think they have the right guy. What they'd really like to do is catch them in a car with another device.
That would seal the case and make it a slam dunk so that the guy would probably have to plead guilty to not get a life sentence as opposed to going through court and him saying it wasn't me, it was my brother.
He could already be under surveillance. The former police commissioner of New York said that he thinks they'll be busted within two days.
Yeah, busted where they already know who it is within two days, but they may want to watch him to see who he's contacting, to see who he's calling, to see if anybody visits him before they make an arrest.
So we might not know for a couple days after they know who it is. But the thing about this, it's obviously a pseudo bomb or a hoax bomb.
You can tell because it's come out today, they were just plastic and a plastic pipe bomb is a joke. A pipe bomb works because it contains the pressure of a low power, not even explosive, but a combustible material like gunpowder,
which is not truly an explosive unless it's contained. Putting it inside of a steel pipe means that it causes the gas expands and eventually the pressure causes the steel to rupture in an explosive fashion,
but doing it inside of a cardboard tube obviously wouldn't work the same way or a PVC tube.
PVC possibly to get it under the 13 ounces so that it could be dropped in mailboxes, you know, hypothetically. But the thing is made to look like a bomb, not to act like a bomb.
The little digital clock on the outside is a Hollywood touch. The purpose of a mail bomb is to have it open when it's, have it detonate when it's opened.
So typically they're going to like have a string tied inside of a box. In the old days they would have the string around the box.
You can have a mouse trap. You can have something like a mouse trap.
Right. So the initiator would be a physical initiator that works not on a timer, you know, where it's just going to go off in a mail truck and blow up a bunch of letters.
It's going to work when somebody opens the package. This is the opposite of that. All of these packages were made to look exactly the same.
So once one of them was found, all of them would be found and segregated out. If this was a real bomber, each package would look different.
They'd have small print. They wouldn't have, you know, the large computer generated font that you can see across the room.
You know, these were all made to be identified. You know, it's clearly a hoax meant to support the Democrats.
They're calling it the MAGA bomber on liberal media. On CNN this morning I saw the banner across the bottom said,
National manhunt for serial bomber. Well, this is obviously BS because to be a bomber, something has to explode.
You know, they're hunting for a serial fake bomber or hoax bomber, but they're still playing this as a bomber in liberal media.
We asked this question months ago with you on over and over again. People can pull the interviews up.
Almost every Matt Bracken interviewer is a smart guy and I kept saying, what are they going to pull? What are they going to pull?
And we made the point. They're hyping that I'm going to cause violence, that I'm calling for violence isn't true.
They're hyping that Trump's doing it, not true. They can never show a clip of it.
And then I asked, what are they going to do if they want violence against themselves?
But they know they're in on it. Are they going to stage some synthetic thing? I asked you that.
And you said, well, I think they'll just get a crazy and shoot into a stadium, you know, arching it in or out of a hotel again or, you know, blah, blah, blah.
But now we see, I mean, now we see that it's literally like a gag at a party or something.
But instead it's a mean spirited bomb. And it's all these different targets of the Liberty movement who we are politically exposing.
And now this makes them get the grandstand and say, see, First Amendment causes violence.
But it turns out the whole thing's a hoax. Fake bombs. It's not a bomber. They're calling it a bomber.
So what does that MO mean to you about suspects and about what they're going to pull next?
Yeah, it's somebody that doesn't have the guts or the wherewithal or even own a gun. So it's somebody that went and they bought enough of the same materials.
I don't know if all the bombs look like the one that we already saw, but they're going to be able to say, you know, who bought that type of PVC?
Who bought those digital clocks? It's unlikely that somebody in their house would have nine old digital clocks that they could hook up.
So if somebody went out and bought, you know, off of eBay, nine digital clocks, the FBI already knows who they are.
And the same thing with the PVC, although that's a little bit more generic. I'm not sure what's on the end.
I thought for a while that was galvanizing.
This was not mailed through the mail. And so they're going to be able to find out who delivered this.
So whoever did this was reckless and a complete moron.
Right. And somebody in a pro-Antifa guy, some Bill Ayers type, might have urged one of the real morons to do this and either convince them that they wouldn't be caught or to take one for the team.
You'll be famous. It's hard to figure out until they catch the guy.
But I agree with Candace Owens. 99 percent. This is a leftist doing a false flag against the conservatives.
And I agree with that. And Antifa is so stupid and so degenerate and allowed to call for violence all over Twitter by Jack Dorsey.
He probably is an Antifa member. He probably is out there on the crap-pilled streets of San Francisco himself and skinny jeans.
He looks like a method, so he probably is. But he protects Antifa.
When will they get smart enough to have someone take one for the team, hate to give them ideas, and actually say they're a right-wing Trump supporter?
That's next level pawns-sacrifice if they figure it out. And the question is, are they preparing to roll out the person that knew they would be caught in pawns-sacrifice by myself, Trump, and others?
We'll be right back to talk about the next level of this with Matt Bracken and what he thinks the Democrats might pull next straight ahead on the other side of this break.
M4Wars.com. NewsWars.com. Tomorrow's news today.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
It does it all at only 2 cents per gallon. Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey, or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla. I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house. I sued the IRS in one. I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement, and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved. I can help you, too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day. There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX, or go to my website, danpilla.com. That's danpilla.com danpilla.com.
They now know that InfoWars has the spirit, the program, the code to relaunch it all, and that's why they treat us like we're death. To George Soros, and to Hillary Clinton, to Barack Obama, and to Lord Rothschild, I'm the grim reaper.
Come to their door. I'm death, and they know it. I'm death of their system. Please don't forget that if you don't support this broadcast, we'll be shut down, and we make it easy with the very best products.
And we've had a 50% off sale, free shipping, the biggest sale in our history, and it has got to end in the next few days, because we're selling out a lot of our best-selling products, and we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now, free shipping store-wide, 50% off on all the supplements, 35% off on the highest quality storeable foods at infowarsstore.com right now.
You support the broadcast, and that lets us stand against the enemy, which infuriates them. You know how scared they were of all those live videos of 90% of the Trump supporters being huge infowars supporters?
It scared them to death. It's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is. The real drama can be found here in Lailania states, but a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Panic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH. What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Welcome back. This is the most censored, the most demonized, the most lied about broadcast in the world for a good reason. We know what we're talking about.
We have the guests on that are experts who've been proven right over and over again. Our job is easy. Just do research, tell the truth, be honest, but be fearless.
And that's why in full wars is on over 250 radio stations, over 350 TV stations, over 100 cable stations and growing.
So yes, they blocked us on social media, and that hurts our outreach, but you, with your email and with word of mouth, have taken it over the top.
And I'm not bragging. It's very buoying, though, to go to the Trump rally in Houston and 90% of people came up yelling and screaming and hugging me of every race, color and creed and thanking me.
I was thanking them. These are my brothers and sisters.
And I wasn't doing the virtuous signal, but when families of black folks were coming over and I just couldn't help when they wanted to hug me, hugging them and everything because it was so good to break the will of the globalist and how they want to turn us against each other.
So very exciting things. Now, we're having some positive stuff go on, but I want to ask Matt again, everything the globalists are doing is falling apart, but they're not going to give up.
That's the one thing is the tenacity of Hillary and others. She's planning to still run. I told you that first. It's now confirmed. I mean, she's crazy. That may change, but currently she's planning.
They're telling Democrats just don't even try. I'm going to get it.
So with all these bad things happening to them, what are they planning to do next?
Well, I think it's plunge the stock market, plunge U.S. Treasuries, which China and the EU are openly trying to do with the Federal Reserve. What does the president do?
I think it's time for him to go after the private run for private Federal Reserve and use his real power through Congress to put pressure on them to stop the interest rate hikes.
They've already had eight of them and to stop announcing, they say, five more at least the next year and, you know, to signal how you've done enough because clearly they're trying to kill this market.
We'll get Matt Brackett's take on that. But first, let me give you the big news.
Megan Kelly is out in NBC just 48 hours after blackface scandal may walk away with $69 million in payout from her five year contract.
This woman is a corrupt lawyer, in my view, a liar. I told her, I believe Sandy Hook happened. She edited the tape where it didn't look like that.
And I'll just let everybody know that she's obviously going to get litigated against in this whole Sandy Hook thing out of Connecticut.
So you went to the jury and everybody sees that and the deception and we've got not much more time to follow on her.
But and I just want to remind, well, I'm going to get, I'm going to get to that because, you know, she really is, is amazing.
And here's the thing. She made the point that if it's Halloween, I mean, like tropic thunder, you know, you got a white guy playing a black guy or vice versa, the idea that you're being racist.
It's all the intention. I actually agree with her on that statement. But here's the point.
They use that to get rid of her, just like they use sexual harassment, they've covered up forever to get rid of all those other people at NBC.
And they're going to people at CBS. So it's just funny to see her destroyed in the jaws of her own political correctness, where they eat their own.
But the false flag, all of it is to distract from the economy, to distract from the Democrats pushing for that distract from the caravan.
Do you agree with that, Matt Bracken, former Navy SEAL, ordinance expert, best-selling author, folks who's joined us, enemiesfiredomestic.com.
Do you agree with what I just said? And then a gut level, instinct level, your sources.
12 days out, let's not get too cocky here. What else should we be worried about?
Just a comment on Megan Kelly. I can relate that also to what's happening with Kurt Schilling.
He was the 2004 Red Sox World Series hero, and for PC reasons, he's disinvited, because he's considered Islamophobic for like, hosting a cartoon on social media.
So he's being unpersoned by his own organization, the Red Sox.
However, more and more people are seeing this as the loony left going further and further out towards crazy PC world.
And I think that more and more moderate liberals are peeling away and getting red-pilled by this.
So I'm hopeful that while their craziness is cranking up in intensity, they're losing membership.
And we might see that reflected in the midterms.
But as far as what we're going to see next, I think that the bomb hoax is going to be a fizzle, especially if it turns out to be a liberal doing a false flag.
No, I agree. And my fear is they're going to go from fake to real. But what do you think about my point? They don't have command and control anymore.
That's why they're going with hoaxes.
That's all they've got. Now, at a much bigger level, we've seen Soros over decades willing to crash economies, trash currencies, to destabilize countries.
Oh, he's always had a heart on for the U.S.
Well, we're the main enemy. For him, we're the main enemy. The globalists cannot permit to exist any successful affluent nations.
They need to bring every successful nation down to the median, which will be incompetent, balkanized, tribal, low IQ, unsuccessful serfs.
And then there'll be the elite masters of all. And they have to get rid of the good examples. That's why Sweden, Germany, America are primary targets in this.
But I think that people are seeing it for what it is. And that's, I think, a lot thanks to Infowars and Matt Drudge, a few others.
The first novel that I wrote in 2003, excuse me, it starts with a false flag. It's a false flag novel. And in that one, the shooter that is allegedly shoots into a football stadium is a deranged semi-nuts homeless veteran.
And he's shot by the SWAT team. So he can't defend himself. The clues are all left in his trailer.
He didn't do the shooting, but he set up to be the shooter. So it could possibly be that when they find the bomber, it's at the end of a chase and a shootout in a fiery crash.
And inside of the car, you know, will be some right winger. Can't rule it out. Just want to put it out.
Oh, that's exactly, everybody knows it's like the shooter with Mark Wahlberg is a very real type scenario.
Right. Yeah. Point of impact by Stephen Hunter was the novel. The novel is a lot better than the movie, actually.
But yeah, they would like to do that, but I don't think it's really possible. I just put it out as a hypothesis in case that does happen.
You know, if the guy is killed in a shootout and his body is burned, I won't accept that he really was the right one.
Well, I'll say this. He may have just been low-level Antifa getting with the false flag narrative out of New York and doing it.
I'm a certain professor, I think of. We're not going to show him. And I was just saying that's kind of the MO of these people.
And then now the globalists can't help but jump on it to use it. But then if it turns out to be a Patsy false flag, whoever did this,
I think it's in danger not from us, but from the globalists who now have gone with the narrative and they're going to try to find out who it is
and before the FBI can get to him, kill him.
Definitely. And plant more right-wing material on him. And let's not forget about the caravan. The caravan is only on the back burner.
But as they, more and more of them, get put on buses and on flatbed trucks, their goal is to get to the border before the midterms.
No mistake about that. And it won't take all 14 or 20,000, just a couple thousand, mostly as many women and children as possible,
storming the border in a visible place so that our troops are tear-gassing them or...
And then it's the new Kent State and then we have a civil emergency and then Antifa has their excuse to start burning buildings and trying to trigger
African-Americans having riots, which we know from Alexander Soros' own group. The plan is to get blacks to riot.
That is the plan.
I don't think that's going to work with the caravan. That won't work with the caravan.
No, no, I agree.
Blacks are against it, too.
Talk more about the caravan when we come back and then we give the number out for law enforcement and former military with expertise in EOD,
unscreened, as long as you're calling in on the subject, tell us what you think about this.
Tell us what you think as experts. Only law enforcement and EOD military personnel.
Straight ahead, I'll give the number out. Stand by.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
X2
We were selling it for about three years, and then they found out how big it was and how much we were buying.
And they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract.
And right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2.
It literally is so pure that if you put it in a picker dish on top of a 90-degree hot plate, it gasses.
Like, I dream of genie, and it's purple gas. I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down, and I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done. I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run. In fact, right now it is the last run, which there's a viable shield in X2.
And we've got a good supply of it, but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, m4store.com. If you have experienced it, no matter how great it is, I suggest you stop up on it.
Well, right now, for a limited time, m4store.com, right now.
But you're also getting really great products like X2, the last run of it.
Secret 12, amazing vitamin B12, the highest quality.
Brainforce Plus, now it's 20% more.
It's all 50% off at m4store.com and free shipping, but it's got to end by this weekend because so many of the great products are running low,
like knockout, the great sleep aid, like ultimate bone broth formula, nobody can get it at that price.
But you are the folks that have stood with us, so it's a 360 win win at m4store.com or AAA-253-3139.
Please take action.
M4Ware's Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source, prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, floral life, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today, InfowarsLive.com.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Well, seeing it in famously a whole bunch of times would put under me KKK leader.
But then they were doing a promo for another show coming up.
But they would put it up like it was me.
And they've done it again.
Search intensifies manhunt for serial bomber going after Trump's targets.
So if Trump says to the news saying we want to kill the president, he's a Nazi, we want to overthrow him.
And then he says, you're liars, you're fake news.
Well, then if somebody mails a or delivers a fake bomb to them, oh, they're just these poor little victims.
This is insanely, insanely obvious and ridiculous.
So did the false flag, I think it's fair to say that everybody from Lou Dobbs, the former deputy director of the FBI to, you know, you name it or coming out and saying that.
Where do they go next? We'll talk to Matt Bracken for one more segment.
And then we have former head of CIA psychological operations, State Department operations.
He doesn't want me to even say all that, but he was the former head of it.
Changed the regimes of at least nine countries.
I mean, he's been in the deepest of the deep, one of the co-founders of Delta Force.
He's a psychiatrist, a lot of other stuff.
Dr. Steve Pachennick, very interesting guy, is going to be joining us coming up last 30 minutes the next hour.
That's as soon as he can get back to his house to give his take.
I don't even know his take yet, but it's always interesting on this.
I've got to sneak in suspicion what it's going to be and the type of psychological boobs that he thinks are behind it.
We'll look at all that, but I want to, in the next segment, and then for a few seconds before he joins us,
you don't have to worry, I'll get to your calls quickly because it's just going to be law enforcement, EOD, former military EOD, people specifically.
Not to say who you are or even where you're calling from if you don't want, but just your take.
Because you've got all these other EOD experts, even on CNN, MSNBC, NBC, they can't get them to lie.
They're like, this is plastic. It doesn't have caps on it. There's wires on both ends.
They have stickers on. They weren't meant to blow up. This is psychological.
And then we go, we already said that. They're like, how dare you say bombing in real?
I'm worried whoever's doing this might mail a real bomb to some innocent mail carrier and blow up somebody to say, see, somebody's dead.
I think the fact that this has been such a hoax, they may kill somebody to just give it that stinky aftertaste to try to sting us making the point this is fake.
That's kind of a gut level deal. I hate to give them ideas, but I've just got to put this out.
We'll get Matt Bracken's take on that in a minute. But first, I say this and I say this and I say this.
I just want to slow down on all the things we talk about. And remember, we're being shut down and we're being blocked and they're trying to attack us because we're telling the truth and we're effective.
And without you, listening on radio, watching on TV, watching on the Internet, looking at infowars.com, newswars.com, without you, we're nothing.
So I haven't always just said, you're the resistance to make you feel good. You are the resistance to the globalists.
They call themselves the resistance. We haven't taken the whole country back. We haven't defeated globalism. We're still just the resistance, believe me.
When we're not, and I say, well, we've basically defeated the globalists, but there's pockets of them. I've got to then say, we've got to be tolerant.
We've got to be open. We're now in power. We're not in power. We don't control the media. We don't control the big banks, the foreign corporations, the chai comms.
We have limited control of the executive and the legislative and now the judiciary.
But only because it got so obvious and so bad that people trained that swore owes to this country finally said, okay, we've got to actually stop the Democrats that are cancer and cut them out.
And it's still not clear whether we're going to survive the surgery as a country. So we're in a massive 100-hour operation here.
And our heart rate came back a little bit. And so they're trying to pile on plunging the stock market to kill us.
So those interviews with Matt Brack and your state laying on how the bombs are fake. And now it's all confirmed.
Those are gold. The articles that Paul Watson's written that I've written that others have put out that the Kit Daniels and Don Salazar and Jamie White and the rest of the crew, get them out.
And they censor news info wars a lot. News Wars is the one to get out. It's not a censor. We're going to start launching more sites, too.
So they've got to ban each one. And then a month later, there's a new one, you know, the, the, the tatties we're going to use, but news wars.com, info wars.com.
Word of mouth, though, now people are more ready to listen to info wars than ever. Hey, you've heard of info wars. Yeah, they, it's all over the news. It's evil.
Well, why don't you find out what it's actually saying? Because it's forbidden. It's verboten info wars.com.
You are the ambassadors. You are the brain. You are the heart. You are the will. You are the entire system of resistance. So do that, please.
And don't forget we've got it in the super sale. We did get a new process, a payment processor. So we've got a backup. They've targeted six of them, got rid of five.
That was really scary. So I said, we're going to sell all our products, all the great supplements, all the everything at 50% off and free shipping.
The Christmas sales, the Black Friday sales, the, all of them were rolled into one.
And now we've been successful at a lot of the inventory that was meant for those sales being gone.
So it means the other cells coming up will still be decent, but not as big and not as, not as widespread.
So get your products today, whether it's super blue fluoride free tooth breaks, it's so great or ultimate bone broth formula or body's ultimate,
Timuric formula or vitamin refusion or knockout or real red pill plus or silver bullet. It's all 50% off.
A lot of these are lost leaders at that price.
Santa Ferato ship additional 10% off.
In fullworkstore.com, in fourslife.com and the sales will end by Sunday.
I've got new specials on Monday that are really good, but they're going to be limited.
So this is the new special in four store.com.
Okay, Matt, thanks for holding during that the toll free number for law enforcement military experts on things like that.
To be able to call in on is 877-789 Alex 877-789-2539 877-789-2539 on what they think about the bomb,
but what they think about all these bombs, what they think about the timing, the motive and so much more 877-789-2539.
But Matt, the time we have left, thanks for coming on with us. What are you really worried about now that they're cornered rats?
I agree with you. What are they going to pull next?
Well, I've got a few more things about the bomb that just occurred to me.
By showing the addresses, the big labels, the fonts, they've made it very easy for copycats.
They've basically provided something that will look like it came from this bomber that anybody can generate at home and send from anywhere.
So they're kind of encouraging copycats that way. I think it was a mistake to show so much right off the bat.
That picture, I think, gave away too much information. It just helps copycats.
That actual hoax bomb there with the wires at each end, and the fact that it was PVC and had no black powder,
tells me that it's not somebody even capable of making a real bomb, like you suggested, to show that they're serious.
I don't think that the person that made that could make a real bomb, or they would have packed black powder in it,
even with no initiation method, just so that it would be reported that they had black powder, an explosive potential.
The way they are, they had no explosive potential.
If somebody was really trying to make an effective hoax, they would have put black powder into them, even with no ability to detonate them.
So I think that they are encouraging copycats, and we could potentially see a real bomb, but it won't be from this bomber, not this time.
This bomber is done, and I think they'll be arrested.
And so if it was just somebody responding, like you said, to the political pheromones, to do this to false flag Republicans,
how embarrassing will that be to the Democrats?
It'll be devastating if it turns out to be a left-winger, but on the other hand, if it's a more elaborate plot than we know,
and they've got some Patsy stashed away to die in a swatch shootout, then who knows?
But I don't think that's very likely.
In fact, I think that's very unlikely.
What about the economic angle?
The Federal Reserve admits they're trying to, quote, make the economy stop overheating when it's far from overheating.
We're trying to recover.
I don't think that they can do anything in this time frame.
I don't think that there's some button they could push without really giving away their game, you know, with big moves in the stock market, bond market.
But, you know, this is a reminder.
If anybody on watching Infowars has not read Griffin's Creature from Jekyll Island, it's must-reading.
If you want to understand the economy of our country, you have to read Creature from Jekyll Island.
Gotta get rid of that private Federal Reserve.
We'll talk about the stock market crash, pet your phone calls, and more straight ahead.
Thank you, Matt Bracken.
Precinct is joining us.
Thanks.
EnemiesFar in Domestic.com is a great site.
Ours is newswars.com.
Spread those links.
They now know that Infowars has the spirit, the program, the code to relaunch it all.
And that's why they treat us like we're death.
To George Soros and to Hillary Clinton and to Barack Obama and to Lord Rothschild, I'm the grim reaper.
Come to their door.
I'm death.
And they know it.
I'm death of their system.
Please don't forget that if you don't support this broadcast, we'll be shut down and we make it easy with the very best products.
And we've had a 50% off sale free shipping, the biggest sale in our history, and it has got to end in the next few days because we're selling out a lot of our best selling products.
And we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now, free shipping store-wide.
50% off on all the supplements.
35% off on the highest quality storeable foods at infowarsstore.com right now.
You support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy, which infuriates them.
You know how scared they were of all those live videos of 90% of the Trump supporters being huge infowars supporters.
It scared them to death.
It's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Infowars Life Daily Digestive Pack today!
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, Infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at InfowarsStore.com right now.
We're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrel's The Glove will swing when.
With Infowars Darkest Hour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate, not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that and I've been told that's going to happen.
But you've got to back us and I promise you this.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at a spiritual level.
I physically will.
But I give you my commitment if you financially support us at foreshore.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I've got a good woman at home who thinks I do no wrong.
So we're in an information war and you've got 10 Democrats who keep saying Republicans are going to kill them.
I'm going to kill them.
Trump's going to kill them while they're calling for violence against us.
Suddenly getting sent these dummy bombs.
You've got always different law enforcement groups and EOD specialists saying they appear to be fake or not effective bombs.
So why would somebody mail something like this?
You've got the former assistant deputy director of the FBI going on Fox News saying Colbert could be someone who is trying to get Democratic vote out to incur sympathy.
We have got the motive.
It's all there.
So what happens next?
So I want to open the phones up for people that have worked in law enforcement and the military in and around ordinance and the bomb squad and the EOD.
The toll free number to join us is 877-789-2539.
We're not screening your calls just that you say you're law enforcement or current law or for military.
Because I've got a lot of guys I talk to that are current or former and they obviously can't come on air with their names or they are.
So instead we'll just open the phones up and it's always informative.
And we'll do that right now with Steve, Spencer, Jeff, Devon and others.
Let's go ahead and go to Spencer first in North Carolina.
It says they're former EOD.
Those are the folks that handle ordinance and its disposal and with the Marine Corps.
So a former Marine Corps.
So what do you think about all this?
Well, I believe basically you're saying it's true as far as the reason behind it.
Well, when I was in the Marine Corps I specialized in IEDs and to a trained eye you can tell just by looking at these devices.
And slow down because a lot of folks aren't in improvised explosive device expert like you.
So walk us through that.
Yeah, so there's four basic parts to an IED and it just looks like these pictures.
They look fake. They look juvenile. They're definitely JV.
They don't look like they were made to go off.
It looks like they were made to be obviously spotted.
There's like no doubt.
So because from your experience they try to bury IEDs or put it in a milk carton or make it look like garbage or look like an old tire.
But instead the packages, all of it's meant to stand out.
Exactly. You would never build it like that if you really wanted it to design as functioned or function as designed.
It just doesn't make any sense. This was definitely a cry for attention.
What about the fact that it's thin plastic?
Now they're saying probably not even PVC with no caps with some glass and they're not even sure it even had black powder in it.
I mean a lot of experts are saying this wouldn't even probably detonate or do anything.
No, I mean it doesn't look like it.
And the thing is you wouldn't want to use PVC or something like that.
You would want for there to be a lot of pressure inside so that the overpressure creates the biggest blast possible.
So yes, to put it inside of something soft like that doesn't make any sense.
You know, the Democrats are this pathetic now because they did all this pre-hype and I'm asking your opinion, you're a smart guy.
Because different angles are important.
They hype that Trump and I are going to get them killed and we're going to bomb them and shoot them.
And then Lyon said that we're calling for bombing and shooting all over the news.
And so I go two plus two equals.
Clearly they're going to stage something and blame me.
But then 14 days out, we're now 12 days out.
This ham-fisted idiocy, the whole media jumps on it, they're foaming at the mouth.
It's so obvious they're trying to pander for sympathy.
So is this what Hillary is reduced to?
Because she's still in charge of the Democrats.
So I would defer that she's probably or infer that she's in charge.
What's your take on that?
Because A, there's so much forensic evidence that's going to lead back to somebody.
Is it a Patsy they're setting up or why is this so badly done?
Yeah, I mean, I believe it's either a Patsy, whether they're wittingly involved or they were lied to and tricked into it.
But I mean, I don't really think the Democrats are stooped to any level.
I think they've always been as low of a level.
They're just revealing it now.
Oh, I totally forgot.
I should have covered this two segments ago.
Oh my God, it was huge breaking news.
The creepy porn lawyer and the lady who represented the Senate has referred them for criminal investigation,
perpergery and lying to federal law enforcement.
So I should have covered that.
I'm sorry, it's here in my innumerable stack.
So we'll cover that and we'll start the next hour briefly.
We'll continue with calls.
Thank you so much.
Anything else, Spencer?
Oh, yeah, I actually, this is off topic,
but I wanted to see what your thoughts were on the Gitmo situation being built up
and what do you think it's actually going to be used for?
Well, I want to be clear.
I like due process and I think that setting those camps up and then shipping people to them.
A lot of times under Obama, it became a training camp for double agents and that's been confirmed.
Trump is expanding it to put military combatants in and I like to see more transparency,
but the fact that they are going after ISIS and Al Qaeda is a good thing because Trump is really trying to mop it up.
Back when the CIA and the leftists were running the grips,
I'm against them having it as a training camp for the CIA base that's on it and the rest of it,
where they were really practicing mind control and social engineering
and trying to create triple double agents,
but if it's used as a place where they hold people for trials, then I support it.
But I mean, I think as far as that goes, these people can be held at U.S. military bases overseas as well,
but I think it should be transparent.
Do you think it's getting prepped for some of the high level demons?
You know, we always hear that and I want to believe the Q folks,
but then, you know, whoever the Q people are, they, you know, say, I'm a bad guy.
So it really makes it hard to gauge or believe, but these folks know what we want to hear.
I really think that if Hillary and Soros and others get indicted,
they should have the regular jury trial or regular, there's plenty of evidence to put them in prison.
So this whole thing about shipping them to get mode just really seems to be cannon fodder
to get a lot of folks excited and thinking that it's all about to be fixed overnight.
What do you think?
I mean, I'm hoping it's really being set up for that, but it's just so hard to see what people are doing.
Because I know I heard about these sealed indictments and I was just wondering what your thoughts were on it.
Well, you know, I mean, from what I know, Trump is really pissed at the Justice Department sitting on their butt.
And so you hear about these sealed indictments and all the rest of it.
And again, it's like fortune cookies or lottery tickets.
People want it to be true.
And I just don't think that is the case.
All right, thank you.
I appreciate your call.
That doesn't mean Trump isn't going to try to lock them up.
We have the Hillary shirt.
Hillary for prison.
And we want them to pay.
It's just that Trump's doing everything very, very transparently because he's under the gun.
And so I just really don't put a lot of stock in that stuff.
But but but we'll see.
Thank you.
Okay, Stephen Indiana, then Jeff and Devin and others.
Stephen Indiana, former Air Force EOD ordinance and ordinance disposal.
What is your take on this?
Well, Alex, I started hearing this site.
I was getting alerts on my phone.
And as soon as I started seeing the alerts and it was very, very, the very beginnings of it, they didn't even know what they had yet.
And I was, I was thinking back to what you said a couple of weeks ago, how they were going to start setting you guys up.
You know, they were already softening the ground.
I didn't even have to see these things to know that it was going to be amateur hour and it totally is.
These things look so fake.
It's it's absolutely astounding that they even put those things out there.
But it's like Balazi Ford.
How fake does that bug God, Damon look?
I mean, that's what I'm saying.
It's crazy.
It's just I don't even know what they're thinking.
It's like we're dealing with retard.
I don't know what is going on.
But it's so transparent.
I mean, anybody that's ever dealt with any kind of improvised explosive device would look at that.
That is not anything that you would ever use in any situation.
It was it was so ridiculous that I was that when I actually saw pictures of it, I was like, you've got to be kidding me.
Well, that's somebody that professionally dealt with bombs.
Tell us, tell us what you see about these devices.
First off, you if you it was mailed through the mail, like I can't remember the guy's name that you have on the former seal.
Matt Bracken, you do this.
Yeah, Matt Bracken, you do this so that when somebody opens it, it makes contact or it, you know, something like you were saying, like a mousetrap type of device, like a cop striker, something like that would happen.
Most likely it'd be like if you had two pieces of aluminum foil, you'd slide it apart, it'd break contact or it would make contact and then it would go off.
You're not going to put a clock on there.
Why would you put a clock on there?
That's ridiculous.
It was absolutely ludicrous.
That whole thing is so ridiculous.
It's not even funny.
Stephen, the third hour is about to start.
Any other points you want to add or you ready to go?
No, I'm good.
God bless you, Steve. Great points.
All right, Jeff, Devin, T-Man and others, your calls straight ahead.
I'm Alex Jones. Whatever you do, spread those live links.
To fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive, to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality from infostore.com.
And we've had a 50% off sale free shipping, the biggest sale in our history.
And it has got to end in the next few days because we're selling out a lot of our best-selling products and we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now.
Free shipping store-wide, 50% off on all the supplements, 35% off on the highest quality storeable foods at infowarstore.com right now.
You support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy, which infuriates them.
You know how scared they were of all those live videos of 90% of the Trump supporters being huge infowar supporters.
It scared them to death. That's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
I
Know stranger to the rain. Oh, I love Keith Whitley. I'm a friend of thunder.
Listen to a little bit of this and go right back to the calls.
That's the line right here.
That's such a good point when the devil gives up on you. You can feel it.
Look at that 1980s air. That's when George straight was a big fan of bringing himself to death.
Enough of Keith Whitley. Good stuff though.
You know, I don't get up here and say positive news if I don't think things are positive.
I'm not one of these globalist cheerleaders.
About 20 years ago, 10 years ago, I got accused of being gloom and doom and negative.
Well, I was, I was believing in you that if bad things were happening and I told you they were happening and you checked it out
and found out they were that you're like me, you want to do something about it.
And that's the case you have.
I bet on you because I bet on me. I believe in myself. I believe in you.
But I got to tell you, no one is buying these hoax pipe bombs and it just shows the desperation.
And it just shows the craziness of these people, just like the whole Kavanaugh fakeness.
He's raping women on boats and in Colorado, none of it's true.
Now criminal investigation from the Senate to the Justice Department on horse faces lawyer
and the other woman whose family and everybody else said, you know, she's really bad news
and there's restraining orders, the rest of it, and that they made false statements.
That means they've lined it up and proven it.
So we're not out of the woods, but we're awake now and fighting so things are better.
And that's it, resistance is victory.
So let's go back to these great callers, Jeff and Devin and Steve and Riley and Steve and T-Man.
We're talking to folks that are former military, current military, current law enforcement, former EOD.
That's ordinance, handling and disposal.
Who's been holding the longest year?
Talking to Jeff and Indiana. Jeff, you're on the air. Thanks for calling. Go ahead.
Hello. How are you doing today, Alex?
I mean, I'm getting blamed for these fake bombs, but other than that, I'm doing all right.
If it wasn't for the seriousness of these bombs, it would almost be comical, you know?
Yes.
It's pretty disgusting. But we got to remember, though, October 31st.
That's when the demonic Democrats, their holidays coming up.
Will they pull a real flag this time? Hopefully not.
You know, it's kind of, hopefully we'll...
Well, exactly. My gut tells me we're not out of the woods with 12 days left.
I think they're going to pull some serious crap.
Yeah, those bombs aren't much. If it wasn't such a serious thing, they're almost laughable.
It's unreal, you know?
I've been calling around to my local politicians and they believe the same thing that these bombs are totally fake.
And it's pretty bad here.
Well, that's what I'm hearing from everybody. I mean, no one is buying this.
I mean, it's not just Lou Dobbs and former deputy FBI directors and bomb disposal experts on CNN, MSNBC, NBC.
They're all saying this is ridiculous.
But again, maybe this isn't ham-fisted. Maybe we make fun of this because that just identifies with Democrats as victims and then the big attack comes.
I don't know, but I don't know, but I'm certainly paying attention.
Right? Same with me here.
One more thing about the southern border general mathematics. Put down troops at the border.
But I've been calling all around again from my politicians and why not put a strategic fob, if you will, forward operating base about 300, 400 miles inside of Mexico to do triage to these people to get them back, you know, either to their countries or actually give them a golden ticket to come to America.
Well, that's a great point. Yeah, like, oh, you claim you're great. You got a degree. You're not a criminal, whatever. You really are a political dissident.
Boom. Yeah, they could set up one of those and the hobbits there at the bases could do that. But will Mexico allow that?
I think the answer is no, because Mexico's really been involved in all this.
Well, see, Mexico was already invaded by these immigrants going across their borders. We are just doing it for humanitarian reasons.
You know, I totally agree. No, no, you're right. When they allow that invasion force to pour across as the vanguards, all the others behind it, they open the gate for our national security to go in there and clean up house.
And it won't be the first time we've marched into Mexico City. And if the Mexican military wants to fight, they're going to get one. But I don't want to go to that point.
This is a real war. This is strategic. And if Trump calls for it, I back it.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, in full words, life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and Omega-3s found in our high-quality, ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants, such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s, Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified, high-quality Crill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately, it's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil.
Now available at InfowarsStore.com.
Well days, my friends. Well days.
It's on now.
This is the heart of 1776. You're a white male!
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
Move, bitch! Get out of the way!
We pledge allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag.
Infowars helped fuel the rumor that President Obama is an ISIS supporter.
It's been a cozy relationship from the beginning.
I will not let you down. You'll be very, very impressed, I hope, and I think we'll be speaking a lot.
Donald Trump and Alex Jones.
This means that Donald Trump will be the 45th President of the United States.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones.
Okay, so we've got former Assistant Deputy Director of the FBI on Fox News, CNN saying it's fake bombs, not even real.
You've got all these EOD experts, even on CNN, saying it's all fake.
And of course you've got the Democrats being mailed these bombs, and it's not gone through the Postal Service,
and people are saying this is a way to just get attention. This is a way to make yourself look like a victim.
And I've questioned it. I've said, wow, look at the timing. You say that I'm calling for violence.
Trump's calling for violence. You don't have any examples of that, but the left is really calling for violence.
A New York Times article out today about fantasizing about the assassination of Trump.
Rosie O'Donnell says, uh, martial law, use the military to kill the President.
Phil Mudd says it on CNN, former Deputy Director of the CIA.
I mean, do these people get mailed these devices? It turns out they're fake devices.
And it's all over the news that, oh my God, Trump's got to be impeached.
You know, his hateful rhetoric is causing it. Anybody could bail themselves.
Something. Or have it delivered, and then say they're a victim.
And it starts in the hierarchy of the Democrats. George Soros, the Clintons, Obama, right down.
I mean, take this package that got mailed to me today. Document Kim's shot, please.
I mean, right here, what is this? They were telling me, I mean, did a Democrat mail this to me?
Because it says Alex Jones, Hillary Clinton, 50, Dark Heart Lane, Globalist California 9066.
How in the hell do they have our real address?
Gosh, that even looks more real than what they mailed.
And of course, just like CNN did, we're not going to treat this like it's a real bomb. Let's just get right in here.
Wow, that looks a lot more real. Whoa, Hillary's face is on it. That means she sent it.
So they put right wing stuff on there, whatever. That means the right wing sent it. Hillary sent this, her pictures on it.
Hold on, hold on, hold on. It's kicking.
Actually, I got another package that was just sent to you. This was just dropped off by a Mr. Hodgkinson, or something.
Mr. Hodgkinson, I don't know. He said he just got released from a penitentiary.
But yeah, so Alex...
Hey, did you hear the creepy porn lawyer and one of the accusers of Kavanaugh is under criminal investigation for indictment?
Oh, really? Well, maybe he sent that then to distract from that, maybe.
Oh, no, no. No one would ever send something to their political enemy or send it to themselves to them be the victim.
Wait, did Hillary Clinton hit on that?
She did it.
Then it's obviously her.
We're anti-Hillary. We're right wing Christians.
Oh, my gosh.
Clearly, Democrats just sent me this bomb.
Oh, my gosh. When is it?
They just dynamite. Twin dynamites. Here in Austin. We've been sent dynamite.
Hold on, Alex. Hold on. Let's see.
No, no. In fact, whoever sent this is a bomber. Doesn't matter it's fake. Doesn't matter it's satire.
Doesn't mean it didn't. Doesn't matter it didn't really happen. The clock is ticking. There's a clock.
There's pictures on it. These aren't road flares. These are TMT dynamite.
This is a bomber, a major bombing attack.
Alex, I got a box here.
Because they're calling it a bombing. Hold on. Be quiet, dude.
This is serious. They're calling it a bombing. They're calling it a bombing that people got male fake bombs.
So this is a bombing, too. Hillary Clinton tried to bomb in full wars. Sorry, dude. Go ahead.
Well, I got this box here. It's from Debbie Wasserman Schultz from Fraud, Florida.
We're going to open that in a moment. Let me open this one first.
Oh, and you were sent those two Alex Jones.
Hold on, Alex. Look at what this is two Alex Jones, but from Soros headquarters.
Alex, read that. What is that?
Soros headquarters, 666 Hell Highway, Bathamette, New York.
Oh, my gosh. And look at this. This actually came in the priority mail.
This is an official priority mail box. Clearly official. I mean, look at how...
I mean, Alex, this is amazing. This was just dropped off. This was just dropped off.
George Soros sent me a bomb. This was just dropped off by the mail. Let's look in it out.
Or somebody in his house, dude. Okay.
I don't know. This just got dropped off by the mail.
Okay. Whoa. I'm not even worried about it.
Oh, my gosh.
Oh, another bomb.
Oh, my gosh.
And look, it's got a microchip on it. Got some circuitry. It's counting down here.
Oh, it says bomb.
It even says bomb.
Oh, no.
It says bomb on it.
Come on. I'm really... Oh, George Soros is on it. Oh, my God.
Oh, George Soros, it's in full.
I'm not even about to go off. Hold on. What's going on here?
You know, we...
Keep down.
You know, you know, you know. Hold on.
Oh.
Sorry, I thought I was...
Listen, we joke about this, but this is what they're saying, that I'm guilty.
Trump's guilty. We're all guilty. These fake bombs.
So these are real, too.
Hold on.
We got Hillary Mel, this is a bomb, because there are pictures on it.
Mine's ticking.
Dr. McHamsha, please. Yours is ticking as well.
It's ticking.
This one says bomb. What does that mean?
Okay, dude. Let's go back to Rob, dude.
A news director, M4s, newswars.com. Tell me what you got.
There's another priority mail box.
Priority mail.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz return address, which, you know, and I open it up.
Why don't you come on in here? Oh, and stay with us.
Come on in here where we have the mic.
I want to show this in the studio.
Oh, no.
It's another bomb.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz sent you a bomb.
You've got her face on it.
She looks a little gross.
Hold on. We got a broadcast from the road.
Everybody get out of the office. Everybody get out of the office.
Folks, we have had...
No, seriously, Rob, come on in here.
You know what? Oh, it says there's five minutes till the detonates.
It's all right.
Okay.
Come on in here with Owen and share mine.
I'm going to share mine, man.
Now, let's show all these. My God, this is national news.
Not a hoax or anything.
You know, just an innocent gopher.
Nothing to worry about.
Let me just show you this.
Oh, my God.
It's Debbie Wasserman Schultz cross-eyed.
Well, that's definitely her.
That's a real picture of her.
So that's left wing.
Folks, this is the rhetoric of Soros and Schultz and Hillary, you know,
saying we're all evil and fake news.
This caused someone who's their supporter to send us these bombs
that are set to detonate.
This one set to detonate at 5.10 today.
This one set to detonate in about 30 seconds.
This one set.
This is just says bomb.
No, Alex, Rob, I'm willing to report.
At least I'm willing to report it.
I have no evidence, but I'm willing to report that it was actually someone
that was on the Southern Poverty Law Center's hate list this morning doing
research that read that info wars is the bad guy.
So they came and dropped off these.
These are clear bombs.
I mean, just look at this high, high circuitry here.
Very complex.
I mean, this is not the work of an agent.
It'll take weeks until after the election to figure out what Democrats sent us this,
but we've got clues here.
Those look deadly.
I mean, if you look at this, this is clearly like, I mean, somebody very
She is beautiful though.
I mean, if the face blew off that, that's a paper cut right there.
Well, these are actually much more dangerous as road flares.
She's actually burned a building down.
The others were inert.
They admit their fate.
And of course, this is satire.
We're back with all the serious former Navy bombing expert Air Force civil engineer
bombing topic, marine bombing topic, law enforcement, police officers next
Devin and then Curtis and a team man.
We're going to get to all of you before former head of CIA psychological operations.
Seriously.
Steve Petrinik joins us.
But this has been satire before they said we put out a fake bomb oaks.
No, it's the Democrats that have been caught that did that.
And they're the ones and we're just illustrating how anybody could just deliver
crap like this and then say it's real.
But all the experts say it's not.
And they're still breathlessly doing this.
This is their false flag.
This is ridiculous.
Oh, these aren't real.
These aren't real.
No, no.
This is a bombing.
Didn't you see CNN?
Just exactly a bombing happened.
Nobody's been this is a bombing.
And why don't we should be like Jaco on CNN when he said he was in the golf war,
getting bombed.
He wasn't.
Or the babies and incubators.
It's a bombing.
Stop it, guys.
This was all satire before they say we're serious.
I hear just like Hillary's ever going to really be president.
That's meant for you.
It's obvious.
I got to get serious with these EOD people who I appreciate holding was minded to do
this this morning.
But it's the job, gentlemen.
That was satire to illustrate why are we listening to these liars?
Crap.
They're known liars.
They stand again.
The bombs are fake.
They're a force.
And this is what they come up with now.
I mean, this is like Keystone cop crap.
Okay.
Laurel and Hardy are now running a Democratic Party and no one's buying it.
Because America's awake.
You thought you'd intimidate us.
No, we were asleep.
All you did was wake us up.
I promise we're taking all your calls.
T-Man, Ethan Curtis, Craig Devon, Steve Riley, Steven, everybody straight ahead.
Whatever you do, spread the link.
Newswars.com.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gussett, Gene Company.
Heart disease is on the rise.
Clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
My blood pressure has normalized mine.
Diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much
healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative
measure to prevent heart disease.
Rehearsals.
and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill, only at Slingbow.com.
Please tell your neighbors, your friends,
your family, your community, constantly,
this is The Censored Show.
They want to shut it down.
Don't let them do it, infowars.com or slash show.
We're in your hands.
If you don't spread the word about Infowars,
if you don't spread the word about newswars.com,
if you don't get the great Patriot t-shirts
of all the beautiful designs,
if you don't get the water filtration and air filtration,
it's the best out there, very low prices.
If you don't get the great supplements,
we won't be here, it's up to you.
And you've been responding, you've been supporting,
so I want to thank you.
But you're also getting really great products
like X2, the last run of it,
Secret 12, amazing vitamin B12, the highest quality,
Brainforce Plus, now 20% more.
It's all 50% off at infowarsstore.com and free shipping,
but it's got to end by this weekend
because so many of the great products are running low,
like knockout, the great sleep aid,
like ultimate bone broth formula,
nobody can get it at that price,
but you are the folks that have stood with us
towards a 360 win-win at infowarsstore.com
or AAA-253-3139, please take action.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the Infowar
to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US
to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout brain formula
that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is gonna end up being
the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you wanna give yourself
and then rest assured you're fighting the Infowar
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com
for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports,
it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Pops, you'll see the fake media come out and say that
we seriously called it a fake bomb threat on ourselves.
No, that's what the Democrats,
all evidence points towards have done.
We're not saying that on your screen.
The fourth bomb was delivered here.
Let's say Apple bomb from George Soros is real.
I mean, it really is some wires and an Apple
bomb thing that says bomb on it.
But it's just how ridiculous these comebacks are
and the fact that we're finally awake to them
and finally questioning what they do
and everything they do turns to crap.
And we got loaded lines from amazing former EOD,
police officers, you name it.
I wanna go to Devon in Missouri,
law enforcement police officer on bombs,
and we'll go to everybody else that's holding.
You're on the air, thanks for joining us, Devon.
Yes, sir, thank you very much for having me on, Alex.
What's your take on all this?
You know, I'm kind of like you sometimes
where there's just so many different avenues,
you can take this.
So I had to kind of focus my thinking
and from an investigator standpoint,
thinking about the bombs themselves.
It's just ridiculous that the bombs are so poorly made
and they were sent to so many different people
getting into the psychology of whoever sent them.
It's just prima facie to me, it's pretty obvious.
And explain that, who benefits is almost always the key.
And then you check it out and it leads down that
and that's where you're at.
Key bono, who benefits, who has the motive,
who has the history, who's pre-hyping their victims
while they're calling for violence
and then it's dud bombs, none of them go off.
All the experts say they look like they're fake
and then they're grandstanding about it
12 days from an election.
So if I had to take a guess, you know,
my best educated guess, you know,
it just looks like it benefits Democrats
and they can gather sympathy from this.
They can make themselves look like victims
and they can get a lot out of this.
I don't think people realize how the tool
that this can be for them moving forward.
And what I really wanted to tell you about, Alex,
this is the second part of my thinking
and I think you'll really find this interesting
if you haven't already maybe thought about this yourself.
You see, I'm from Missouri.
The second thing that really,
this dawned on me a couple of days ago,
I was thinking about the, you know,
how that you're being demonized,
info wars, patriots in general.
I thought about the Mayak report.
You remember that?
Oh, that we got from federal marshals
that literally was teaching them
that veterans are the number one enemy.
They said there will be IEDs,
we're gonna have a war with the militia
and they were saying radical Islam doesn't exist.
It's all Christians and veterans were the number one enemy.
They were telling us police officers here in Missouri
that Ron Paul stickers target these people
and we were like, what?
They were saying, Ron Paul,
get out of the Fed stickers are a code to kill cops.
Yeah, yeah.
And till this day, there is still some sense of that out there
for some officers and it's just ridiculous.
But that was one of the first things that popped into my head
and then you mentioned all the time,
things like the Oklahoma City bombing
and it all ties in.
This has been going on for a very-
Oh, this is a leftist narrative
to frame Americans as terrorists
when the right wing terrorists don't exist
other than McVay and that was fake.
And it's the left, I mean,
Obama sat at the feet of the weathermen.
Yeah, they have the history.
Previous activity is the greatest indicator of what?
Future, baby.
Absolutely, yep.
And that's the psychology we're dealing with
and yes, yes, he got the MyAC or pulled up.
And like I said, just being from Missouri,
that's something that kind of hit home for me personally,
but it should-
Well, by the way, it was going out to everybody.
It was just Missouri got its version written
about the Southern Primary Law Center in ADL,
so you guys got it out to us.
Well, God bless you, Devin.
Amazing points.
Anything else?
No, no, just want to say that I'm,
thank you very much for having me on
and God bless you guys.
God bless you.
Absolutely.
Don't thank me, I thank you.
You know, I used to buy anti-cop stuff a little bit
just because I'm a constitutionalist
and it could be a danger if they were bad.
And the cops aren't perfect,
but on average they're more awake
and the military's more awake than anybody
and that's when the left hates them.
That's why they want to control you.
And it's why they hate us.
They just hate this country.
And law enforcement and the military represent the nation
and that's where the power is at the end of the day
and they want to control you.
But their attempt to turn the military
against America backfired.
It backfired spectacularly.
Some cops still buy into it, but you know,
that's their problem.
There's always going to be idiots.
Oh, we got so many good callers
who hasn't holed the longest now.
Let's talk about bombings, former Navy, Stephen,
you're on the air, thanks for holding, go ahead.
Yeah, hello.
Hey brother, what do you think about this situation?
Oh man, this is just out of the playbook, you know?
It's something that, I think we've seen this in the past.
And I tell you, amigo, this is something else.
Those bombs, they look like toys
that you can purchase at the Walmart or something.
And except for the one with the picture on it
and the writing on it, you know, that had to be...
Oh yeah, a bomb's going to blow up.
You don't put writing on it to frame people.
But again, if you put Hillary's picture on a bomb,
she must be behind it.
We could mail ourselves fake bombs
and then say Hillary did it
with the same amount of credibility.
The cops would be here in 10 minutes to arrest us.
They would see right through it.
The bomb that was removed from the building
right by here was a serious bomb.
No, this is the real thing, said de Blasio.
Again, when people start saying,
out of the blue without being questioned,
this is real, this is real, what does that tell you?
Oh man, that just tells me that there, you know,
there's a bigger thing behind it.
Exactly, if you walked on a car lot
that you think is a new car lot,
and let's say you were buying a Ford Explorer
and you walk in and the guy goes,
this is a Ford Explorer, it's new.
It's new, but I can give you a discount.
You'd start thinking, that's a car
that's already been wrecked or something
and you do a search and find out he was lying.
See, at a new car lot, they wouldn't say,
oh, by the way, this is new, would they?
Right.
They wouldn't say, oh, by the way, this is a real bomb.
Sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, and I don't know if you would like this as a kid,
but we used to blow up a lot of M80s and stuff,
and man, those would do a lot more damage
than what these so-called bombs are capable of.
Oh, let me tell you, it was about 10 years ago.
I put a bunch, just for fun,
a bunch of those mortars in an Imperial Walker
that I'd had since I was a kid.
I literally got out of storage, I blew it up.
It was like 35 years old, 40 years old.
And I was 50 feet away and a piece of plastic
hit me between the eyes and cut me.
And I said, whoa, I better not do this again, exactly.
Yeah, and me and my buddies,
we used to get like a milk carton or a plastic milk jug
and break some firecrackers and put the powder inside there
and have a fuse in there and tape it up.
And man, that'd make a nice pop, you know?
We all did it.
Man, these things that they're showing now,
brother, they're like candy, you know?
When my dad was a child on their big ranch,
that you could still buy dynamite at the local supply store,
they'd make you fill out a form.
And my dad was 10 years old with his dad
going to put in quarter sticks of dynamite and stumps
that they couldn't get out with tractors to clear land.
And now, look at America, back then you took guns to school,
kids could have dynamite.
We didn't have bombers back then,
but we didn't have communists.
God bless you, I appreciate your call.
More calls straight ahead.
And the former head of psychological operations
for somebody's joining us.
In these uncertain times, it makes sense
to have a sustainable backup method
to cook food and boil water.
If your current plan includes using a fuel burning stove
or cooking over an open fire,
then there's a much better way.
The Minuteman rocket stove
is a biomass burning cooking stove
that only requires small quantities of sticks
and twigs for fuel.
The Minuteman stove is easy to use,
smokeless, portable, powerful, and sustainable.
For the finest in survival cooking stoves
and fire starters made right here in the USA,
go to minutemanstove.com.
That's minutemanstove.com.
The United States of Empire is a book
that claims the United States is the empire of the world.
George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I
and II left England broken.
Its former colony, the US, had to save the empire.
Was there ever a vote?
Who do we fight for?
The deep state began with World War I,
the United States of Empire,
by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
to still get to the gym or to go for a run
or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know, I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SupermailVitality at infowarstore.com,
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy
at the end of a long day to fight back
against the chemicals and the food and water,
to fight back against the modern day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise
that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SupermailVitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality
before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you.
SupermailVitality.com.
But the globalists now want to target
where the resistance came from,
so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate,
not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that.
And I've been told that's going to happen,
but you've got to back us and I promise you this.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at the spiritual level.
I physically will, but I give you my commitment
that if you financially support us,
then Voluntary.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful
MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins
were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger
and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula,
a unique natural formula designed to support
the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance
in the body, supports your digestive tract,
and addresses the intestinal yeast
that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients,
including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients
that stood the test of time
as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new
and improved MycoZX Plus today.
At infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide,
it's Alex Jones.
All right, I'm gonna host you in the next hour
with Roger Stone joining us.
We got T-Man, Ethan Curtis, Randy Gregg,
Shane Garrett, Steve Riley.
And I said, if you're EOD,
current former law enforcement military,
they've all made incredible points.
We'll get to your calls throughout this 30 minutes,
and then Dr. Steve Pachennick leaves us
into the next hour with Roger.
But this'll be the group of calls we can get to,
because I don't wanna leave people holding.
But I promise I'll get to all of you.
I respect your time, please stay there.
Please don't forget, we're kicking the globalist ass.
I just plug once an hour.
We have free shipping store-wide
and 50% off all the supplements,
35% off high-quality swarble foods,
other big discounts,
because they took five of our six payment processors,
and I had to sell our Christmas specials,
our Black Friday specials,
our Cyber Monday specials all at once.
We did all the specials.
Well, we've got a backup and another backup,
praise God, payment processor.
And we had sorrows breathing down our neck,
huge harassment.
I had to file lawsuits over it, you name it.
So it's very expensive.
And at these sales,
we're making like 10, 15% on some of these products,
but boy are we selling a lot of them.
And you can see all the five-star reviews,
except for our two new products
that haven't got reviews yet.
So get your X2, the last run of that,
because we just can't secure
from the deep breath crystals anymore,
the super blue fluoride-free toothpaste
with iodine and colloidal silver,
the BrainForce Plus, all of it,
M4WarsStore.com, M4WarsLive.com, or AAA-253-3139.
And the fact that they haven't destroyed us
and really core audience, we've just gotten stronger.
Our outreach has gotten hammered.
But I went, and I'm not bragging,
you know the good news, the video's on the site.
I was totally ineffective at the Trump rally.
First one I went to, because I was mobbed.
90% of people, like I was Elvis Presley, okay?
And again, that shows we launched the Trump movement,
Americana's back, no matter what happens to Trump.
So be positive.
That said, though, Dr. Steve Pachinick
ran Psychological Operations
for the State Department, another three-letter agency,
best-selling author, researcher,
co-wrote Tom Clancy's books, StevePachinick.com,
and I'm trying to get him to come in studio.
He offered years ago, and then I asked him lately,
and he makes little jokes.
But, because we've never met in person,
but he's been on air with me for 17 years now,
and we've broken hundreds of major stories.
And so Dr. Steve, good to have you here with us.
I don't know your view yet, I haven't looked.
What do you make of these ridiculous pipe bombs?
Well, I don't make anything,
except whoever thought of it,
or whoever did it, or didn't do it, or created it,
has just backfired an entire system
that it's not gonna work.
Whatever it was intended to do,
threat or intimidation, all it did was to jack up
what we call our readiness alert.
So the police, the FBI, the post office,
they're all doing a great job.
And what it's showing to America,
quite frankly, on the positive side,
is the fact that we do have a national security
that is domestic, it's not only external.
So Homeland Security's doing well,
Ms. Nielsen did an excellent job.
The military's doing fine.
General Mattis, Secretary of Defense Mattis,
has waived the right for our active military soldiers
to go down to the border.
Now, that's very unusual,
because for the first time,
we're using real-life, our full-time soldiers
on the border for the next-
But that is constitutional.
It is constitutional if it's used for support.
And Mattis is a very strict constitutionalist,
as is ironically Trump.
And so both individuals understood very clearly
we need a support system on the border,
behind the great guys in ICE,
and everybody else who's fighting down there,
FBI and all the others.
But quite frankly, it is totally inappropriate
for a group of individuals,
no matter where they come from,
to come to the United States
and expect us to take them in
with a nonsensical story that they're refugees
or they're in danger of some type of political
or economic disaster.
Now, I'm an example of a Cuban born in Cuba,
came to the United States.
My father was a physician.
It took us six years to get a visa just to come here
so that we could spend one year alone
so that my father could pass the board exams
in order to stay here in the United States.
At the same time, he was drafted into the Army
and I was informed that I would be drafted,
and I was, and I was happy to serve.
Those are the conditions under which
you come to the United States legally.
There is no other approach.
Yeah, you don't message some Soros, UN,
anti-America leftist base,
get brainwashing given money
to come in there waving foreign flags
and screaming America's Nazi.
Soros is a buffoon.
You know, the good part he had done
in the Soviet Union when he brought in Sarov.
I'd give him credit for that.
I was in the Soviet Union when we were working
against the Soviets, he took out dissonance,
but eventually became too old, too entitled,
too narcissistic and much of a buffoon.
And it came back to haunt him,
his background having worked with the Nazis
and trying to make something of himself
when he's really not relevant to the United States.
No, I agree, but his money is a big problem.
So you're mainly focused on the illegal alien invasion.
I'm glad you wanna go there.
But take the pipe bombs.
I think it, I know they're not a big deal,
but the fact that the media jumped on it,
they went with it.
It's admittedly, even all the experts on mainstream TV
admit they're fake now.
It's totally backfired.
Why is everything the leftist, twisted,
they're not even leftist.
It's the whole Hillary thing
that's still halfway attached to our country.
Just everything it does turns to pure crap.
I mean, as a psychiatrist,
as a psych warfare expert, as a military officer,
as everything you've done,
why is suddenly everything they're doing
turning to pure garbage?
I've never seen anything like it.
Well, it's not suddenly that they're turning to garbage.
It's been that it's always been garbage.
I mean, one of the things that we have to look back
is that Hillary-
No, I agree, but the public sees it as garbage.
That's different.
Well, no, no, no, no.
Well, that's the perception
and the manipulation of the press.
But I've gotta say, you know,
I've gotta defend and sometimes the press.
I'll give you an example.
The New York Times just went after Jeff Zuckler
for having made comments about the fact
that he implicated the president
as the source of dissension within the United States.
If you look at Maureen Dowd's article on Zuckler,
she says he's the worst,
absolutely the worst CEO
that any network has ever had at any time.
Frank Brunei, I mean, I don't know these individuals,
but he went after Jared Kushner.
Three days ago in an article
that mimicked exactly what we've been saying for years,
get rid of Jared Kushner.
So there are those within the system
who are really speaking out.
Now, do we blame everybody with a broad stroke?
No, it's the same way the Alex Jones show goes.
They can say whatever they want about Alex Jones,
but the truth of the matter is Alex Jones,
the persona, the total ambiance of what you are
and who you are, it's more than you as a person,
will exist and continue.
Believe me, there's no way that you're right.
No, I know that, and it's not about me,
you're right, it's this persona, it's this paradox.
They built me into Godzilla,
and then now I'm 10 times bigger.
Roger Stone said something very interesting,
which I still quote,
and I think he hit it right on the head.
Roger said, look, what we're in the process of
is measuring to what degree our systems
can tolerate dissension within a cyber nation
or an internet, a binary system.
You happen to be the measuring stick,
and if you're a very effective measuring stick
because you don't give up,
you have a great sense of humor.
It's not about you, but you've collected a group of people
in an, let me tell you, Austin, Texas
was not the center of the world 20 years ago.
Now, thanks to you and the Jim Baker Association
and on the Bushes and all,
Austin's has become a major center
of learning, of, you know, intelligence,
and that didn't happen by chance.
Who talks about New York nowadays?
Who talks about Cornell or Harvard?
This is what you would say 15 years ago,
and I didn't know what you were getting into.
You were saying it's gonna move to the south,
it's gonna move to Texas, it's over, the elites are done.
That's exactly what happened.
I said it would move right to the south.
I said it would be Texas, it would be Florida,
it would be New Mexico, Oklahoma.
Basically, we are now the power.
The northeast is finished, the west coast is finished.
I mean, it's replete with homeless.
When the New York Times-
Well, stay there, let's talk about this,
and we're not pleased that's the case,
but before we can have a renewal,
we've gotta face the fact,
but what if they flee here and turn us into that?
That's another problem, and your call's coming up.
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems
that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z-Shield,
Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the informal war.
It is a classical 360-win.
This is the formula that I personally
have been taking for over a year,
and now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family,
and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean
and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires to the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together,
we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z-Shield
and infowordslife.com.
And understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us
and if you spread the word about our articles
and videos, infowords.com,
we won't just continue to stand up
against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales, infowords.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart
and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Soros and Love will stay with you.
This is infowordsdarknesshoward.
We're your support. I'm counting on you.
We're selling out a lot of our best selling products
and we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season
so it's a great time to take advantage
of these super sales right now, free shipping store-wide.
50% off on all the supplements,
35% off on the highest quality storeable foods
at infowordsstore.com right now.
You support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy,
which infuriates them.
You know how scared they were of all those live videos
of 90% of the Trump supporters being huge infowords supporters?
It scared them to death.
That's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
Please tell your neighbors, your friends, your family,
your community constantly this is the censored show.
They want to shut it down.
Don't let them do it.
infowords.com.
We're in your hands.
If you don't spread the word about infowords,
if you don't spread the word about newswords.com,
if you don't get the great Patriot t-shirts
with all the beautiful designs,
if you don't get the water filtration and air filtration,
that's the best out there, very low prices.
If you don't get the great supplements, we won't be here.
It's up to you.
And you've been responding, you've been supporting,
so I want to thank you.
But you're also getting really great products like X2,
the last run of it.
Secret 12, amazing vitamin B12, the highest quality,
Brainforce Plus, now it's 20% more.
It's all 50% off at infowordsstore.com and free shipping,
but it's got to end by this weekend
because so many of the great products are running low,
like knockout, the great sleep aid,
like ultimate bone broth formula.
Nobody can get it at that price,
but you are the folks that have stood with us.
So it's a 360 win-win at infowordsstore.com
or AAA-253-3139.
Please take action.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
All right, I promise all these amazing callers
that are holding.
I'm going to take over Roger Stone's time,
part of it next hour, go right to your calls,
and then host with Roger Stone, Ethan, right through Riley,
and we're going to go to all of you.
But here's a few crazy clips of Democrats.
There's a small smattering, calling for violence,
and now saying nationalism in the existence of the country
is dirty.
I asked Rob Dew to put together a compilation
of last two days of them saying Trump is evil
for saying nationalism.
He had a 14-minute clip.
The average person was like 20 seconds.
He cut it down. He cut it down to six minutes.
We never even aired the thing.
It's too depressing to watch.
But this is them trying to demoralize us saying
we don't even have a country.
Well, then what do we have?
Who sticks up for our interest, our culture?
This is why they're going to lose.
They're telling us that America doesn't exist
and that we're the bad guys.
Here's a few of the clips.
We're not going to make America great again.
It was never that great.
Jesus.
We have not reached greatness.
We will reach greatness.
Wow.
Wow, you're a piece of crap.
I'm a nationalist.
Nationalist.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight.
It is a favorite of the alt-right.
And shut him down.
He goes on to demonize it.
The bubbles they live in and the gaslight they're trying to do,
Dr. Steve Pacenek, is like something out of a Kurt Vonnegut
novel of just a grand philonary.
And I just wonder where they're going to go next,
trying to suppress the recovery,
trying to suppress the country,
and trying to do this.
What are you as a psychiatrist and a historian
think they're going to do, the establishment,
as it becomes clear that everyone is absolutely sick of their crap?
Well, number one, you have to understand
every one of those individuals from Madonna to Andrew Cuomo,
never served in our country.
So you have to understand that most of the people,
most of the actors, the politicians on the left or whatever,
I mean, she's an idiot.
I've seen her at Warner Books.
She's not very bright.
I don't find her a great entertainer,
but they're all self-made personas.
I mean, you have Andrew Cuomo.
Do you really?
His mother, I happen to know his mother,
and she was very lovely.
I needed her in St. Bob away.
We're talking about the grandson of a mafioso.
Cuomo has never really done anything other than to be
a corrupt politician in New York State.
I came out of New York State.
If you were to say anything about the Cuomo family,
you'd know the next word is mafia.
He never served.
He never had any national...
He never made his bones like grandpa.
No, that's exactly right.
So what you have here are the pretenders.
These aren't people of action.
You either do it or you don't do it.
Lady Madonna is nothing but self-aggrandizement and narcissism.
Rosian, nothing but narcissism, grandiosity.
Cuomo, grandiosity, narcissism.
Now, one day that they ever decide to serve...
There's the mayor, another piece of insignificant nothing.
He doesn't do anything in New York.
He hasn't built a business.
He married a former letter...
So let me raise this point to you.
What person, because America that produced George Washington,
Martin Luther King, who was a great person,
Martin Luther King Jr. for the courage he had in his oratory
and the things he did, and people like Neil Armstrong,
and they say America isn't great.
I mean, that is...
What is this leftist thing of telling us we suck all day
and then telling us it's just...
What's wrong with these people?
Well, what's wrong is the fact that they're not in touch with reality.
They don't work every day.
They don't have to hustle every day to make a living.
They don't go on the highway and drive trucks,
where we have the greatest number of truck drivers.
They don't build bridges.
They haven't created anything that's concrete, what they are,
and I've said it from day one.
These are process people.
These are people who are in process never having to account for anything,
even though Madonna produces a record, she's not relevant.
And the time of relevancy is very short for most of these people.
So when they come to the end of their life,
they basically say some absurdities to which they have no involvement.
They've never served our country.
They never went overseas to represent America.
They never had to fight anybody to say,
I'm an American.
They never had to really create a strategy or attack.
By the way, President Trump recognizes this.
He says, before I ever heard of the news, I was told this,
I was born into a great country.
I did great.
I love this nation.
But all the world, America is amazing.
I like Scotland, but it's not even as good as the US.
And I love the people, and I haven't served,
but now I'm going to serve by being demonized
and being lied about and working 18 hours a day.
And he is.
He's the commander-in-chief, and Trump is serving now.
He is in the firing line, but he respects that and he gets that.
And now at 72, the last four years, since he's 68,
he has been serving.
That's it.
Now you hit it on my head, and I agree with you.
He has served our country, and he's still serving it.
And he understood where the problem was.
He's lost $2 billion in this fight.
That's serving.
Well, but it's not only that.
You have to remember from the very time,
and I remember 42nd Street when he built the hotel,
he did it.
How he did it is not relevant.
When we, I had kids in New York, they wanted to do it.
What is the word?
Because let's be honest.
He's not mafia, but how did his Fred Trump and then him
do things in cities that nobody else could do?
I heard behind the scenes, Fred Trump would beat the hell out of,
I mean, not with thugs.
I heard Fred Trump would take on like three, four guys himself,
and that was just basically, it respected him so much.
Well, that's the point.
You know, when you're in the business of creation,
when you're in the business of building,
you can't be a nice guy.
This is not about being the nice guy.
This is about the person who says, get it done.
We have X amount of time.
X amount of materials.
Get it done under time.
That's what I'm saying.
How could Trump push the mafia out in areas of New York
nobody else could?
I don't know whether he pushed them out or he co-opted them.
What he basically did in the construction...
Well, sure, he did what nobody else could do.
That's because he understood how to work with them.
If you have the mafia or you have any other group of individual,
it doesn't matter what you call them.
As long as you utilize them,
as long as you understand what the quid pro quo is,
and you can work with them, that works.
Corruption is an innate aspect of any system.
Whether they want more or less,
that's up to Trump or that's up to the builder.
But the reality is you're not pristine in this world.
You can't come out of self-righteous and suddenly say,
oh, I'm above this all.
Even Zucker, who was the one who said something about Trump,
the guy was the worst manager of NBC.
He had the worst ratings in the history of NBC,
yet he was given $30 billion a million to lead.
Now he takes over CNN, a dead entity.
I was on CNN 25 years ago when it was first started
and we were working up in Northwest Washington.
It was barely a studio.
So it became an entity under Ted Turner.
The guys like Turner, the guys exactly like Trump and others,
they build, they create.
That's what we're about.
And even Turner has told CNN to stop trying to sabotage America.
He says it's embarrassing.
It is embarrassing.
And Ted Turner's no fool.
He's up in Montana.
He raises beefalo.
He created a restaurant chain.
In other words, those of us who belong to America
understand that the essence of America
is the right for us to make mistakes.
Not to succeed, but to make mistakes.
Go to Russia and see if you can make mistakes.
Go to France and see what a disaster it was
when I told you my home would be a disaster when he came in.
All right, listen, very impressive.
Come back with us more often.
The audience loves you.
We love your knowledge.
What's happening?
We're 12 days out, though, in closing.
And maybe we'll leave, but I got all these calls
because they're awesome.
But you're awesome, too.
Things are going well.
I think people are waking up.
But what about them trying?
Because you're into international finance, too.
What about clearly China, the EU,
the Federal Reserve raising interest rates?
They are trying to kill the recovery.
Well, let me put it this way.
Trump understands Powell.
Powell is a very serious man from Chevy Chase, Maryland.
He understands that increasing the interest rates
by 25 basis points is going to have a certain effect.
But Trump put him in there so he could have a guy to work off of.
The economy is doing well.
The reason there was a pullback is that the uncertainty
that's coming in repeatedly and the noise that's in the background
is creating all kinds of problems.
But there is a real problem.
Facebook is not doing well.
Twitter has to improve its performance.
Square has to improve its performance.
The head of Square and Twitter.
Hold on.
Let's do five more minutes.
We've got to go break.
Exactly.
And if you look at the algorithms and what they even admit,
the censorship Big Tech did, and not even taking campaign money
from conservatives this cycle,
they're killing themselves with the censorship.
It's conservatives and nationalists and businesses
that actually empower Twitter and Facebook.
They've killed us so they can be big
and they're bringing the whole economy down.
Meanwhile, we're doing better than ever.
Thanks to Lizard Support.
Infowars.com, newswars.com.
But what I really want to do is reach new people.
So share the live links, share the articles.
You are unstoppable when you get excited and take action.
Hour number four, two minutes away.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park
or heck, even take your dogs for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to Supermail Vitality at Infowarsstore.com,
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day
to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water,
to fight back against the modern day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise
that you need for your health.
So go to Infowarsstore.com and get Supermail Vitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of Supermail Vitality.
So I want you to experience Supermail Vitality
before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you.
Supermail Vitality.
Come into Supermail Vitality.com.
Happies can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body
in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
Happies helps support during stress,
promotes overall well-being and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today.
With Happies from Infowarsstore.com.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas.
Transmitting worldwide.
It's Alex Jones.
Alright, Steve McChinney for five more minutes,
and then I promise, even though these calls are all great,
I took like eight or nine of them,
but I spent like five minutes a piece with them earlier,
and then we had a guest on, so that's why you've been holding.
I'm going to have to break Ethan and then Riley and Steve
and everybody else who want to write to you,
then Roger Stones, Lodoper Bear, he's coming up,
former head of the Trump campaign,
who Mueller has been breathing down his neck with made-up stuff,
obsessing on me, but the word is,
because I know nothing's there,
that it's all about to be derailed very, very soon.
Dr. McChinney, getting into the economy,
we have an article on DrudgeReport.com with the 2,000-plus points
that have been lost so far this year
and all the cheerleading of the Federal Reserve, everybody,
to drive down things.
If they're successful doing that,
I don't think the public's going to blame Trump.
I think this is a very dangerous game
that some of the deep states playing.
What do you think?
Well, what's really going on,
remember the stock market is really six months ahead
of where the news is.
The uncertainty right now regarding the election,
that is one of the major drives for the pullback.
The concern is, quite frankly,
the market does not want Democrats.
Now, forget the notion who they are.
The market will not tolerate Democrats coming into any position.
Exactly.
The market doesn't like Venezuelanization.
Correct.
And the market is basically saying what I'm saying
and what you're saying.
We're going to have Republicans in Florida.
We have DeSantis over Gillam.
Gillam has been indicted, investigated by the FBI.
DeSantis is a gentleman who went to Harvard, Yale,
poor Italian family, and then ended up to be Jag in the seals.
Then we have Rick Scott, the former governor against Bill Nelson,
an old geriatric patient.
So you're predicting a red wave,
but there's uncertainty until that happens.
But just like when Trump got elected,
the stock market went straight up.
You're saying if that happens, the uncertainty will be out.
That will go away and the markets will climb within 12 days.
I predict that there will be Republicans everywhere that Trump went
and including Montana.
When you have John Tester, whom I know is ineffectual,
one of the most corrupt senators in this country,
has the most amount of graph that's been given by Washington
and he goes around making believe he's a fat farmer
when in fact he got a degree in music at MSU or at university.
Sure, sure.
In the time we have, what about Abinadi,
the little porn lawyer and the other people?
I mean, now they're basically set to be indicted
with Senate criminal investigations.
I mean, it looks like the wheels are coming off of the Democrats.
Correct.
And it's all turning around.
Mueller will be out.
Mueller's had a history that's so replete with problems.
If I were Roger Stone, I would not worry about it
because Mueller could be indicted for one of a hundred things,
whether it's 9-11, whether it's, you know...
When did he get compromised?
He is so compromised, that's why they put him there
and Trump knows that, Mueller knows that,
he's totally ineffectual, ineffectual in it.
It was.
He went to St. Paul's, went to Princeton,
he did the walk but he couldn't do anything else.
He was ineffectual.
I will say though, in Vietnam, he was quite a brave soldier
but after that he compromised his entire integrity
to the state and to the Bushes.
So we got 60 seconds left.
What does the deep state left us do when we have a red wave
and everything falls in on them?
Do they get even crazier?
They will try to attempt, basically,
there be self-immolation.
In other words, what they will do is self-destruct.
By the time the election comes around,
you will see the Clintons out,
you will see Cory Booker out,
you will see a whole bunch of these Democrats who are...
And you're saying from your sources,
as I agree from my own research,
the analytics show a red wave unless election fraud is so bad.
That's correct.
And I would say the Republicans will storm over this country
and the economy will come back.
And I'm not whistling Dixie.
I'm just saying it from the obvious place where I'm here in Florida
and I see what happens when we have no state taxes,
we have Republicans in a certain area
who are doing exceedingly well.
Sure, and from the south and from Texas in the Midwest,
America can grow back and heal itself.
Dr. C. Petrinic, God bless you.
We'll be right back with phone calls and Roger Stone.
Thank you.
We'll be right back with phone calls.
We got 20 phone lines.
We actually have like a thousand digitally,
but we put 20 on the board.
So it's always the guilty paradox.
I'll take like 10 calls in an hour, but then there's 20 more.
So I appreciate you holding while Petrinic was on
for much of an hour.
What a smart guy, man.
That guy, the longer I'm alive and remember all the stuff he said,
the smarter I know he is.
People, I used to have him on like 18 years ago.
He's CFR.
He was the head of the CIA, psychological operations.
What are you selling out to him?
No, those are the patriots.
It's the leftist and the globalist.
You want people on the inside.
You want to take America back.
You want to win.
We're not always just going to sit out here on the outside.
I'm trying to explain that to people.
Now Republicans totally take over.
They should split into two parties and I see any hanky-panky.
I'm going to go after everybody.
But right now the Democrats say you're bad if you believe in America
and they hate free market and they hate wealth for average people.
They're the enemy.
And I see Trump fighting as hard as he can.
Is he perfect?
No, but I'm people like, well, you're anti-government.
Why do you love Trump?
I'm not anti-government.
I'm anti-people that want to destroy the Republic.
I like seeing nations become Christian and promote wholesomeness and goodness
and have children like Russia standing against radical Islam.
I like seeing that happen in Italy and here.
You think I want to see these countries?
I like seeing Brazil set to elect a guy more right-wing than Trump.
So Roger Stone's coming up.
I'm going to take your phone calls right now.
I appreciate Ethan.
Everybody else holding, but I'm going to have to move quick
because I don't want you to hold anymore.
Ethan in the great state of Texas.
You're on the earth.
EOD, ordinance disposal, 10 years.
Give us your take on the bombs and the bomber, even though no bombing happened.
What is your view on this?
Well, I was thinking about it.
I saw a tweet today.
Well, actually it was from a couple of days ago.
Hillary Clinton, October 22nd.
Whatever you choose to do, do something.
Within two weeks before the election, we don't have a moment to lose.
Next day, Thoros gets bombed and then next day after that.
My idea is that these are all the DSA kind of people that the Veritas exposed
because if you look at the map, they're all over the country all the exact same time.
There's no way this is one single guy making this.
It's a coordinated effort.
And doesn't it fit Antifa perfectly?
They're willing to go up on Twitter with hundreds of thousands of followers,
university professors and say, kill Pence, kill Trump, kill Jones.
And they don't get in trouble.
Doesn't that just embolden them than to do this?
Of course.
And that gives them the...
Because when Antifa does their main attack next,
the American public will be A, desensitized.
So the next attack will be everybody will say, oh, no, more fake bombs.
And then the next one's going to be a real one that actually does hurt something.
And then the CNN will come out and say, oh, thank God for Antifa.
They're defending us because we got the bombs first.
And now Antifa's on our side.
There are great defenders of the American freedom.
But looking at the ABC put out...
I'm looking at the picture right now.
The picture of the X-ray that whomever the bomb squad put out.
And it's 100% a fake thing.
There's no blasting cap.
There's no batteries.
If you look at the picture of the clock,
they didn't even remove the film that has the fake numbers on top of it.
So it says 1135.
And you can see numbers underneath.
So there's no way this thing is...
Well, plus it's not going to blow up when it's a light.
It's not even PVC pipe now.
It's like just plastic.
Exactly.
So they created a fiction and then mailed it to actors
who could then bitch and complain how they're poor victims
while they call for violence.
And so, I mean, look, I'm no bomb maker.
But I know, you know, you get the pipe, you put in the best powder you can get.
You don't want black powder.
You want regular accelerant powder, modern white powder.
You pack it in.
You put projectiles in it.
You screw the cap on as tightly as possible with a wire going through
that's got two, you know, two points that connect
so that when the clock ticks, it sends an electric charge through
that detonates the powder.
I mean, and it doesn't have any of that.
In fact, they're even admitting now there's not even powder in the damn thing.
Alex, that description right there is probably what, you know,
majority of the people, that's not even accurate
because you have to have something that'll detonate.
You need a primary, like a blasting cap.
Wires heating up will not, will not be hot.
I was about to say, you got to have wires heating up going to a cap.
Yeah, exactly.
And then there's nothing exposed here.
The red wire on one side and the black wire on one side.
That's just somebody watching a movie and thinking they're going to rig something.
So it's, I look at a picture and another thing real fast.
The picture that they put out of it pulled out on the desk with the Clorox,
with the Clorox container right there.
That looks like somebody pulled it out of the, of the, of the package,
took a picture and apparently it wasn't that much of a threat
that they needed to run away as fast as they can.
Like, oh, I guess they could picture real fast and get super fast.
No, exactly.
A real bomb you're scared of.
None of them went off.
It's totally fake.
God bless you.
Good to hear from you, Ethan.
Great points.
Okay.
It's been holding the longest now.
Steve in Michigan as a former Marine or Marine wants to talk about bombing.
Go ahead.
What's your view on this?
Hey, Alex.
Great job. Appreciate everything you do.
Appreciate you.
We're going to do our parts.
The first thing I was thinking was this nonsensical and that's good.
What that tells us is that this is a organized act of desperation.
So that tells us a red tsunami is coming.
No, I agree.
This is really desperate and really pathetic.
And it shows they don't have command and control anymore.
So they came up with something like this.
Absolutely.
The thing that bothers me is that when those things happen, what we saw overseas is that
they would have an opportunity would start to pick up.
So the small things would happen.
The Senator Cruz and his wife, things would happen.
The guy with his truck and the Trump supporter sticker, things happen.
Those things will start picking up.
Because they have no other recourse.
Well, exactly.
And we see violence against nationalistic conservatives and just common sense people
exponentially going up.
So let me ask the question.
12 days out, gut level, first approximation, like Trump says, the deepest thing I ever
did was become shallow.
Well, that's very zen, what he said.
Your first approximation is your full subconscious 100 times on average, more powerful than conscious.
So your first approximation is what's going to happen.
What is your first approximation and what they're going to try the next 12 days?
Well, they're punching the wrong dog.
I think, and by the way, I mean all of us.
I think they're going to try the small things.
I think they're going to go after the mom with the MAGA hats.
I think those are the people.
So you think just low intensity voter intimidation and rage?
Absolutely.
That's right.
I think that's going to pick up dramatically.
God bless you, Steve.
Go ahead.
Absolutely.
Go ahead.
Well, the people are 17 people that still have CNN.
It just blows my mind how little respect CNN, MSNBC, all these other people have for their
viewers, because these things are stupid.
These are the things that when we would see them on the road, we'd ignore them.
We'd say, okay, well, what else is going on?
They put us out there to draw our attention.
So what else is going on?
They don't want us to see.
And that's my concern is if they're using classic Islamic, that's exactly what I was
saying yesterday.
You see little fake pipe bombs.
That's the distraction.
It's that pile over there on the side of the road that's about to shoot that projectile
weapon at you.
So God bless you, Steve.
So yeah, we're not out of the woods yet, folks.
12 days out.
We've got to be really focusing.
They're trying economic collapse.
They are trying the whole collapse of our borders.
They're pulling this to make themselves victims, to cast themselves as victims.
They're really sophisticated before something really big hits.
But I don't know.
I don't want to be smarter than they are.
I have to get down on their mindset sometimes.
I imagine I'm like, I've got two brain tumors and I'm totally evil.
And I'm a handmaiden for child molesters like Hillary Clinton.
I've got to like get in her mindset and it's not a pretty place.
That's when I really come up with my good ideas though.
I've got to go sit in a room for like five hours and just really think about scum and
how they operate and like get in their mindset.
And it's, I'll be honest, it's one of the places I failed.
I just, I don't like it.
I can do it really good.
But I have to get in the enemy mindset and I don't like it.
But I think I have to do it.
And it's, I feel sorry for myself, but I'm not looking forward to it.
I have to really get in their mindset.
What are they going to do next?
I just think they repeat themselves.
I think it's a truck bomb on a major media outlet, a fake media outlet and blaming us.
I think they're going to roll a truck bomb in.
That's just my, my subconscious says, roll a truck bomb in.
And we're trying to stop that right now.
I think they've got the truck bombs loaded.
We're going to blow up 10 truck bombs.
FakeTV.com
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes, you can't pay.
Don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high-quality krill oil concentrate
paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately.
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil now available at infowarstore.com.
This is the version of the Powerhouse Pregnantum product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain,
healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Pregnantum base, the real red pill,
can quickly become one of our fellow infowarters' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green DX track, your Ramate leaf extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that real red pill has?
It's also got the most in it.
Get the real red pill plus at infowarstore.com.
The essence to tyrants is obedience to God.
It's Alex Jones.
You know, I was thinking today, before I go back to your calls,
and Roger Jones taking over, I was thinking about what do I stand for?
You know, I'm not suicidal.
I love life.
But if I had to walk into a furnace that I knew was going to be turned on,
I was going to burn me to death in five minutes.
For my children and for your children, I would do it.
And that's what a man is.
We like to have fun.
We want to live to be 100 years old.
But if we got to die, we're going to do it.
But you got to make sure you die on the right thing.
And it's so liberating to not be afraid of the globalists.
It's so liberating to know we're on the right path and to be close to God.
It's so liberating to know whatever the costs are.
We're going to pay them.
And to see the return of men and the return of women.
That's why that's all, everything they do is to attack that because of the power it has.
The Dow surged 500 points to reverse the downward spiral today.
Vox magazine asks, is it time to start adding lithium to the water to make us all submit?
They already added, by the way, folks.
That's on M4Wars.com.
That's how sick all this is.
See, they don't deny all this anymore.
They admit it.
Roger Stone's coming up.
We're taking your calls right now.
Riley.
Riley in the great state of Texas, Air Force, Civil Engineer.
We'll talk about the bombings.
Every expert we've had on and experts on CNN, MSNBC, Fox say these are fake bombs.
But it's like background noise and then attacks.
Jones says they're fake, he's a cook, but he's behind the bombings.
So, it's a crazy time.
Riley, what do you think?
Yeah, you know, I'm just in here laughing at everyone discuss the psychological operations that I pretty much created,
not but a couple days ago.
So, metaphysically, everyone's arguing about, you know, the orange-narrow effect
and how it's perfectly designed to work the way it's supposed to work.
Designed to show how much of a fraud everyone is.
Designed to show how fake everyone is.
You realize like anyone in the Air Force and a civil engineering squadron
who pays attention to their training can do the same thing as an EOD personnel.
It's just that the EODs are the brats of the military because their generals let them down and they complain the most.
It really is beyond...
So, quantify, you're saying this false flag's meant to look like it's fake?
Yes.
If you go look at my video, the orange-narrow effect, which I made for your MPC...
Say it slow.
Say it slow.
I'm gonna announce the MPC soon.
We got so many, we're trying to watch them all.
It's called the what?
It's called the orange-narrow effect.
The orange-narrow?
Yes.
You've seen the Netflix show, the Cabanaro effect?
No.
Okay, well...
I don't have time for a lot of entertainment.
Seriously, I mean like, I may watch one show a week.
So, the last thing I watched on TV was First Man.
It was excellent.
That was like two weeks ago.
So, tell me again, the orange-narrow effect?
Yes.
It's a play on words because what I'm doing is you create an object.
You create like an idol.
You create a device and you get people to worship.
You get people to contemplate.
You get them to surround their thought process around that thing until it just corrupts themselves.
So, we're showing it.
So, quantify what you're saying.
Okay.
You know, it's just a deep psychological operation.
Just to prove how much a fraud everyone is.
That's it because you have people up there claiming to be experts, claiming to be this, claiming to be that.
Notice all the claiming over this device.
Well, I don't think...
Listen, I appreciate your call.
I don't think there's a claim.
There's real experts.
This is fake.
Plastic stuff.
It's all fake.
It's blowing up.
Why are the globalists so stupid?
I think that's the issue.
To get caught in, oh, there's nothing real.
Oh, it's all fake.
Everything someone else is shy of.
Everything in the universe is intention, my friend.
I intend to try to work with you to build a better world for our children.
I intend to be honest and have a world where that's honored.
I'm real.
And so, they can say whatever they want in the universe that I'm Bill Hicks or I'm this or that.
I'm not.
I'm real.
I'm Alexander McJones from Dallas, Texas, and I love freedom.
And I'm going to stand up against them.
So, there you go.
Okay, another caller here.
Curtis in Oregon.
You're on the air.
Go ahead.
Thanks for holding.
Alex, can you hear me?
Yes, sir.
You see Army EOD on a comment on the bombings.
Please give us your take.
Yes, sir.
Thanks for taking my call.
Listen, when you run your render safe procedure on these devices, you know, within the hour
after you get your samples back, whether or not there was explosives.
So, I'm trying to juggle around and say, oh, it may have been an explosive.
It may not.
They already know.
Exactly.
Two days later, they're not sure of its explosives.
That's key.
Then there's not even black powder.
It's laughable.
It's totally laughable.
I mean, wouldn't they have a test in like 30 seconds to know that it was explosive?
And then, like, I want a two-hour test, right?
Absolutely.
It's not even that, Alex.
I've used the device myself.
You put what it is in a little glass tube, put it in the device.
It fires a laser through it.
It'll tell you what it was.
So, it's a spectrometer.
It takes five minutes.
Yeah.
It takes five minutes, Alex.
It's totally laughable.
No, I agree.
To get the general family's five minutes.
I was reading this last night, but to get the exact, you know, total breakdown of it
may be a few hours.
So, they know this is horse crap because you haven't seen what the explosive is.
Oh, yeah.
This is faker than the Cavanaugh accusation.
This is just laughable.
Those devices might as well have been dog toys.
I mean...
I agree.
So, let me ask you this, Curtis.
What are they going to pull next?
Because they sure as hell aren't giving up.
Man, it's hard to say right now.
I mean, obviously, they can't get any real bomb makers to do anything for them.
But, you know, I think this is a multi-layer attack from multiple angles.
And I think there's more of a distraction away from that invasion coming from the south.
I agree.
This is all a distraction from the southern invasion.
Exactly.
They don't want us looking at that.
They want everyone to be scared to go to the pole.
Oh, I might get hit by a bomb there.
Oh, you never know.
Like some right-winger might bomb me.
It's ridiculous.
Don't let ourselves be too distracted by what's coming.
No, I totally agree with you, Curtis.
Mexico's aiding and abetting an invasion of our country.
And I mean, maybe I'm wrong.
No, no.
They're president of Mexico doing it in July.
Great points, Curtis.
Thank you.
We're going to put this out as a video, because this is so important at m4s.com, that the
pipe bomb attacks are a hoax to distract from the Islamic globalist whole UN invasion is
taking place.
Great points.
Let's jam in one more before Roger Stone comes up.
Chris, Army sent to border 1996 also on bombs.
Go ahead.
Oh, hey, Alex.
I served in the 17th Air Cavalry, 82nd Airborne Division from 94 to 97.
And back in 1996, Bill Clinton, if you listen to his state of the Union address, he sounds
just like Donald Trump.
But right after that, he sent my unit to the border.
We went to El Centro Naval Air Facility and our helicopters, they flew missions along
the border and our ground scouts set up observation points.
And they never made any contact with any border crossers.
They would just call it into the border patrol.
And they made busts of ban loads of drugs, people crossing.
I just.
Oh, sure.
The idea that the military, not just the Army, the Marine Corps hasn't been on the border
forever is ridiculous.
It's a constitutional role.
You heard Osiel Donald like we need Marshall Law because he's sending troops to the border.
That's in the Constitution.
Finish up Chris when we come back and Roger Stone is taken over.
And he's also going to be on the war room today.
Three o'clock central in about 30 minutes from now.
Pain in my neck, back and shoulders has really gotten worse.
Relief for body pain is here with Sunny Bay heating pads.
Well, the last thing I want is to take another pill.
So what's so good about Sunny Bay heating pads?
Sunny Bay heating pads made by Biomed DB Design right here in the USA come in all sizes.
Our extra large, microwavable heating pad for back pain is designed to be large enough
to cover your entire back.
It's also perfect to wrap around your legs, knees or shoulder and neck.
But I need to know their good quality.
Of course, Sunny Bay heating pads and pillows are often an Amazon choice.
And it's easy and most affordable when you purchase your Sunny Bay heating pads right from our website.
SunshinePillows.com or call us 253-678-1361.
Hey, a Sunny Bay heating pad would make a great gift, right?
Yes, and they start at just $19.99 and free shipping is available.
So call 253-678-1361 or shop for your Sunny Bay heating pad at SunshinePillows.com.
You're excited about this broadcast.
It's what brought the country and the world back from the break.
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate, not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that and I've been told that's going to happen.
But you've got to back us and I promise you this.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at the spiritual level.
I physically will.
But I give you my commitment if you financially support us at InfowarsStore.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SuperMailVitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water, to fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive, to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you.
SuperMailVitality.com
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
Infowars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at Infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at InfowarsStore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you,
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros the Globalist may win.
This is Infowars Darker Tower. With your support, I'm counting on you.
All right, it is 233 Central Time. The war room's coming up with Roger Stowe and Lauren Schreuer in about 27 minutes.
And look, I like Dr. Jerome Corsi. I've been interviewing him for 18, 19 years.
He exposed globalism, really helped Lou Dobbs do a lot of his work when he was at CNN.
But I got to be honest with you about saying too much. When I was in D.C. about six months ago with Dr. Corsi,
he seemed to mentally be extremely degraded to the point of what I would call dimension.
And, you know, I respected him when he liked QAnon. Then he said, QAnon's bad.
And then I agreed with him and then all that didn't get proven.
I'm not throwing Corsi under the bus here, but Corsi won't even return my phone calls.
And the last time I saw him, I was in a steakhouse in D.C., not even knowing he was there.
He walks in, eats by himself, and then falls down on the ground.
And I had five security people with me. We were staying in a hotel next to his, I guess.
They took him back. They thought he was dead at one point.
But, you know, I only say what's true. I have all the witnesses that happen.
And it was at that point, he was a contract writer for InfoWars. I let him go the next week.
And I just said, hey, thanks for your services. His one-year contract just so happened to be ending in about a month.
I paid out the last month of it, and that was the last I saw of Corsi.
Next, Mueller calls him in, and now we're here.
So I don't want to say these things on air, but you know what? The truth's the truth. I'll say it.
I'm sitting there eating a steak, drinking red wine, and he's on the ground at another table.
We had to help him out of there, man. They thought he was dead in the elevator.
In fact, these were actually current Navy SEALs, Delta Force, you name it.
They were like about to call an ambulance. They thought his heart stopped. They were like listening to his chest.
And then it came back, and then they had to carry him to his hotel. So that happened on my shoulder.
I'm not discrediting Corsi. I'm telling you what happened.
So I think he's got dementia or stroke. I mean, I don't know.
So this is a really sharp brain up until about a year ago.
Mueller subpoenas your room, Corsi Berther, and ex-gallagher Jones associate.
Mueller reportedly has evidence that Roger Stone Associate, New Clinton campaign emails have been stolen and given to WikiLeaks.
Evidence Stone Associate, New Clinton email. Now, folks, this is why this is so crazy.
I was there in June, July, August before Roger Stone was working with Info Wars.
He was at Fox News Consultant. And so was Corsi. I'm just got consultants working here.
And these are great sources. And I'm sitting there and I'm talking to Roger Stone because WikiLeaks,
Julian Assange is on Fox News. He's in CNN. He's on New York Times videos.
And I said, you know, he needs to come on my show. We're exposing all this.
And I called him a Hillary butt plug and all that because he wouldn't.
And I'm talking to Stone. I'm talking to Corsi.
They're like, yeah, we're trying to get journalists that are talking to him to get questions.
Everyone wanted to know what the WikiLeaks were. Everyone did.
And so we'd say, oh, we hear it really hurts.
Clinton because WikiLeaks had said it was about Clinton and Stone had had had talked to that talk show host in New York.
I forget his name. We'll say his name in a minute.
That on record did know Assange who's now being flushed out in the toilet and Ecuadorian embassies not giving a support.
So the idea when that you're a Russian agent, if you try to talk to Assange when he's all over mainstream news and we never did.
And now Corsi says he's the source of all this is just incredible.
So I have to at this point, because my name's in all this and Corsi won't return my phone calls.
I have was he was grabbed by Mueller for days.
And I heard from somebody that saw him like it was been beaten with phone books or something.
I love Dr. Corsi and people get old.
My grandfather was an amazing person, World War two vet prospector, author, Lee sound oil guy, great guy.
And, you know, he was about 80 years old.
He had a heart attack and they fixed his heart, but it set a bunch of stuff to his brain and I came back over to his house about a month after the surgery.
And he was like a three year old telling me about red fire engines and, you know, you know, playing marbles and going poop in the potty.
So Mueller's got a guy talking about poop in the potty here.
And we just have to say that that if I'm ever seen or had a stroke or whatever's going on with Corsi, that whatever comes out of his mouth ain't the truth.
So Roger Stone, I've done it.
I've just said it all.
I have the truth.
What the hell is going on there?
Because they're reporting this everywhere.
It's pretty simple, Alex.
To be absolutely clear, there had been a spate of leaks from the office of the special counsel.
It is technically illegal for them to leak, but they have been leaking like a sieve.
On the other hand, their leaks are obliques such as Jerry Corsi learned of his own research that John Podesta's emails had been acquired.
Can't remember where he heard it.
Says he didn't hear it from Assange or WikiLeaks, but that he told Roger Stone this had occurred.
False.
But I mean, he was on record on this show.
WikiLeaks said we have their emails.
But specifically in the question of John Podesta's emails, I have said.
Roger, you don't have to repeat it.
I remember hounding you.
And the minute WikiLeaks would release stuff, we were all on the site to grab it and do the news.
The idea that we were talking to Assange when he treated us like crap.
I called him a butt plug.
But in this specific case, what is being alleged by NBC was that Corsi knew and had Podesta's emails in advance.
Can't remember where he got them, didn't get them from Assange and that he passed them on to me.
To be very clear, I never passed on anything.
NBC says, quote, Stone said he only passed on documents that were public.
No, actually, I never said I passed on anything.
I just tweeted on things.
So it's more fake news nonsense.
Sure, but let's say what you're guilty of.
You're guilty, like I and everybody else of hyping.
Assange says this is going to be damning to Hillary.
We were like, great, great, great, we're going to cover it.
We did live overnight broadcasts and then Assange didn't release it and I got mad at him.
I mean, it's just such a, I was there and I'm not trying to put Corsi down, but the state I saw him in.
And then even after that, a few phone calls before he wouldn't talk to me was he's not there.
And that's why I'm not being mean to Corsi.
Maybe he's better now.
But all I'm saying is, Roger, this is what Mueller hinges on now.
It appears that he's going to put his eggs on this basket because Randy Krediko is not a credible witness.
He told me that Assange had this material and he would publish it in October.
He told me that consistently for a 50 day period.
There are third party witnesses he said to, he's out of his mind.
He's contradictory.
That's the New York, that's the New York talk show host.
The New York talk show host.
Everything I have said about him under oath is accurate.
In the case of Jerry Corsi, to be clear, NBC didn't include this on the record categorical denial.
Jerry Corsi never told me that he was aware of the acquisition of John Podesta's emails and that he never passed anything of the sort on to me.
They exclude that quote from their story.
So it's just more fake news.
The other one.
Roger Stone advocated a pardon for Assange as if this is a secret.
We spoke about it here at Info Wars.
We ran a petition to do it.
I wrote about it for the Daily Caller.
I wrote about it for Info Wars.
I love that they always say what we do on air is like some secret.
So listen, everybody's sick of Russiagate, but it's good to cover.
What about Rosenstein a month ago telling Trump it's over and signals of that?
Do you think that is BS?
What's extraordinary, Alex, is that Rosenstein is being allowed to testify to the Congress behind closed doors with only the two senior members, two Republicans, two Democrats and a stenographer.
The other members of the committee are being denied the right to perform their sworn constitutional duty of oversight.
Why is Mr. Rosenstein getting special treatment when everybody is supposed to be treated equally under the law?
There's ample evidence that he offered, not jokingly, to wear a wire to entrap the president under the 25th Amendment.
No, Ken Deland in the NBC.
That's not a joke.
The New York Times story, I think, covers this with multiple sources.
I agree with you, and we don't want to turn the FBI into a praetorian guard that's so royal it can't have been questioned by Congress.
It's very frightening.
Let's come back with Rodgers County straight ahead, because are we looking at the talent of Russiagate or something even bigger?
Plus, Democrats are trying to crash the stock market right now, if they would have.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates, but a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater, and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles, and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity, and pH.
What we learned was that there was, in fact, unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter, and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water, so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
As the years go by, it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs.
With changes in diet, unnatural ingredients, and stress, you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals needed daily.
That's why Infowars Life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula.
The new platinum standard of advanced multivitamin formulation, vitamin mineral fusion, uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools it needs to support your body.
Using a proprietary process, we've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious, concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients.
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home, vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with 34 different essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and more.
Start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting, natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today.
Available at InfowarsStore.com.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage, and that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
At the Apple Store and Google Play, you can join the Infowars today. Check it out right now at Infowars.com.
It's the Infowars official app. Taken on the globalist at point-blank range, and with your help spreading it, and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfowarsLife. Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfowarsLife.com.
These arrogant globalists thought they defeated humanity. The truth is, whether it's Obama or George Soros, they're losers. Everything they had, everything they threw against us, failed.
Now, just because we defeated these tyrants for now, doesn't mean we've won the war. The war has happened within our hearts, within our souls and our minds.
We have to be good. We have to be pure. We have to be strong. We have to build prosperity and we have to bring everyone of every race, color and creed together if we're going to truly defeat these tyrants who believed we were going to fail, who believed their divide and conquer would work.
Yes, we've won the first face, but the battle for the soul of humanity has just begun. But Obama and Hillary and Soros, you are losers from the day you were born.
This is the heart of 1776. It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
Move, bitch! Get out of the way! So, what's happened is very clear. A very corrupt group of bureaucrats and intelligence agency people working with foreign governments, hijacked the country, sold it out, all became billionaires, and now they're pissed that we don't want to live under them.
And then Dr. Corsi, who I think is a great guy and a good guy, gets targeted in all this. And then you see mainstream media saying things that may be not even true. I was pointing out that I've seen him appearing to be ill from a stroke, whatever the case is, and I've been really worried about him.
And then I know, Roger, you're in the crosshairs of this, so you want to defend yourself all the time. I don't think anybody buys that you've talked to the Russians or that Assange is a Russian. You all act like, I didn't even talk to Assange, which we didn't, because he was being a little establishment punk at the time, and now they've hung him out to drive, but they didn't because he was a Russian or we were a Russian.
So moving on past all that, I don't see them covering Mueller as much. I mean, the last few weeks, there's been nothing, now suddenly this thing, which shows they're going after people that, when I've seen them, aren't doing too well physically or mentally.
So at the end of the day, if they get me after I've had a stroke or something, and they get me saying I'm the Tooth Fairy, it doesn't matter. I mean, I don't think anyone buys that Trump's a Russian agent or that you or I at this point.
If Jerry Corsi knew in advance about the hacking, the alleged hacking of the DNC and past documents on to Donald Trump, I don't know about it. I know that I had no advance notice of the source of the content of any of the WikiLeaks disclosures, including those regarding John Podesta.
And I said so under oath, contrary to what Swalwell and Schiff say, my testimony is entirely accurate and truthful. And I will prove that if I'm called upon to do so. But Alex, this is a plan. Let me make sure you understand the plan.
Number one, step one, take down Alex Jones, shut info wars down. That's step one in their plans. Step two, get Roger Stone out of the way. Step three, the House of Representatives if controlled by-
No, I agree that they had to demonize silence and destroy us before something big happens. So even though we sit here and go, this is ridiculous, what is it they're planning in their whole crazy system?
Absolutely clear. If they win the House of Representatives, they will vote articles of impeachment against the president. Forget Russia collusion. Other than trying to pursue me on some bogus charge based on something Jerry Corsi never told me or may not even know, they failed.
So now the new argument will be the president sexually assaulted these 19 women from the 2016 campaign. They will have no evidence or no proof and no corroboration, but you've seen the dry run for this. You've seen the dress rehearsal.
Sure, I agree, but let's go back to Corsi. If you believe mainstream media, what they say he's saying, he was told that Assange had stuff on Podesta, the head of the Hillary campaign, and gave it to you, which would mean you have purged yourself to the Senate.
That's totally new. He previously wrote all these articles saying that wasn't the case. So it's what the hell does that mean?
It contradicts everything he has written and said here on Infowars. It is not true. He never told me that anything about the acquisition of Podesta's emails and he never passed on anything.
But I was there. We were bitching that we couldn't get what they were. What's wrong with we do? That's what journalists do.
And as I have said, between the Breitbart piece on August 14th that pointed out that Tony Podesta was working with Paul Manafort for the same Ukrainian political party and the Panama Papers dissertations about the Podesta...
No, you defend yourselves with this audience. They already know it, Roger. I get why you defend yourself, but here's the thing. I don't see any of it flying and I just feel bad for Corsi.
And I have to point out that the times I've seen him, he looks very, very sick. So whatever comes out of him, I feel sorry for him and hope he gets help.
We care about Dr. Corsi and Lord knows what he's been through. He's been a great pain for this country. But I didn't have to say what I've seen. Shifting gears, the pipe bombs, the immigrant caravans.
It's like the Democratic Party is committing suicide in front of us.
Well, this is all part of the same mosaic. They are hysterical. The only reason that someone would do this highly suspicious pipe bomb stratagem is if they were reading polls that show that they are slipping, that they are losing.
We predicted this right here on InfoWars. We told you there would be some big dramatic event just before the election that was staged to help defeat Donald Trump and the Republicans. Here it is.
Meanwhile, they try to sidetrack me with this nonsense. I want to be in the main fight talking about the caravan, talking about these pipe bombs.
So in a way, it's an attempt to get me off culture. But I also know that in America, when people accuse you of things, if you do not respond to them, unfortunately, they assume you're guilty.
No, no, I get the act like you're guilty. I just, you know, I was there when I had my whole crew sending emails to WikiLeaks going, hey, you go on New York Times, you go on CNN, come on us.
And then I remember you, I remember going, Roger, then you get it. Well, I've got to contact through New York. We're really pressuring to come on. I go, well, that'd be great.
I mean, I remember you couldn't get ahold of them. So then the idea that we're lying and we're in the bed with Russians because we can't get the supposed Russian agent on is just horsemen or Roger Stone.
You're going to be on during the war room coming up, aren't you?
Yes, indeed. Look, the Democrats are really freaking out. You could tell Hillary Clinton was perfectly made up, coughed, coiffed and so on.
I believe that the teleprompters were loaded before the story about the bombs even broke. This is such an obvious, a false flag and obvious falsehood.
Notice none of the ball bombs went off. Notice none of the.
Sure. They're fake bombs. They're fake bombs. Roger, thank you for coming up war room. Everybody, we don't get the word out if you don't get the word out.
We don't win if you don't take action. So I'm not bitching at you. I love you. You're amazing.
Listen on AM FM TV or cable info wars.com forward slash show. Whatever you do, subscribe to the free podcast of the Alex Jones show. David Knight war room. I'll enjoy her. Whatever you do, take action today.
And whatever you do, realize that this is the fight for the future of humanity with people that want to promote a pro human future versus those that want a pro tyranny future.
And please don't forget. I'm sorry to Garrett and Shane and Greg and Chris. We're out of time. Call back tomorrow. I'll get you on front of the line.
EOD experts really appreciate and respect you. Thank you. We're out of time.
Please realize this special has to end this weekend. Biggest sale in our history. Free shipping store wide 50% off the nutraceuticals 35% off the highest quality storeable food.
You can get even higher quality for triple the price, but it's the highest quality for good, decent food. It's all there. X to selling out last run. 50% off brain force plus amazing neutral.
But 20% more each bottle 50% off bodies ultimate tumor formula 95% of humanoid. Nobody's got that 50% off alpha power incredible for stamina, libido energy.
The strongest formula out there from our research 50% off. And we're finally getting reviews in for regularized, complete and gut fusion brand new product.
Those are amazing. Those are 50% off out of the gates. Super mill vitality final run because it costs so much to make it take so long. I'm I'm terminating that product, even though it's popular.
Let's appear water filtration systems. They're discounted info war store.com info wars life.com. You have stood with us against the globalist.
We've changed the world. Everybody else says, Oh, we're tip of the spear. We're changed the world. We've really done it because of you.
And they want to shut down. So go there, get a t shirt, get a book, get some non GMO heirloom seeds, the lowest prices out there, get water filtration, get air filtration, get the supplements.
Imagine, you know, all the products we've got the secret 12 right at the top bottom and be 12 in the country. Knock out amazing natural sleep aid. It's all there info war store.com info wars life.com or triple a two five three three one three nine.
All right, war room starts on our satellites and everything in like two minutes info wars.com boards last show with Roger stone on shroyer and so much more.
These pipe bomb things have really nobody's buying it. It's amazing. And Megan Kelly just got fired. There's a lot of crazy news.
But whatever happens, pray for info wars because your prayers are what takes us over the top. I need your prayers. I don't just believe in them. I depend on them.
Thank you so much for your prayers. Please pray for info wars and for American for freedom.
They now know that info wars has the spirit to program the code to relaunch it all. And that's why they treat us like we're death to George Soros and Hillary Clinton to Barack Obama and Lord Rothschild.
I'm the grim reaper come to their door. I'm death and they know it. I'm death of their system. Please don't forget that if you don't support this broadcast will be shut down and we make it easy with the very best products.
And we've had a 50% off sale free shipping the biggest sale in our history and it has got to end the next few days because we're selling out a lot of our best selling products and we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now free shipping store wide 50% off on all the supplements 35% off on the highest quality storeable foods at info wars store.com right now.
You support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy which infuriates them. You know how scared they were of all those live videos of 90% of the Trump supporters being huge info war supporters.
It scared them to death. That's why they want to extinguish us but you won't let them.
Please whatever you do realize that we're all getting punched drunk to the censorship and you saw 18 Twitter accounts they say affiliated with info wars. Yes some of them are like little side accounts they know we had like info war stores that just showed our products.
But they just banned them all yesterday in punishment that I beat a Trump rally and be mobbed by all these folks that loved us. Your excitement about America your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country and the world back from the brick.
I now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future. I want to be troublesome and pesky. I want to keep going. I want to make them do the ultimate not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way. I've committed to do that. I've prayed for that and I've been told that's going to happen but you've got a back ish and I promise you this.
I will never falter. I will never waver at the spiritual level. I physically will but I give you my commitment if you financially support us and for short calm to give you my absolute total commitment.
