The answer to 1984 is 1776, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
There's a big war on corruption crashing to the lies and disinformation.
Our mission is to have humanity pass over the Atlantean moment and not destroy ourselves.
Because we've already reached, as of 1945, and the use of atomic weapons, our face-to-face
of truth staring into the time-space continuum and total oblivion or total absolute integration
with God and immortality.
This species now stands at the threshold.
The globalists claim they're altruistic, they claim they have all the answers, they claim
they have this great vision for us, but in truth they are the fallen souls, and that
evidence is all being made manifest right now.
Every day, even mainstream media and top globalist publications have to come out and admit the
truth about where we are as a society and a civilization.
Here is the World Economic Forum that's basically Bilderberg Group public coming out and saying
that scientists know what you think, and they know how to control your mind using electromagnetic
waves.
Ladies and gentlemen, I remember them floating that almost 20 years ago in the Baltimore
Sun where the CIA admitted they were adding augmentation systems to cell towers in the
Baltimore area with DARPA to practice mind-controlling the public.
Yes, we're not in Kansas anymore, and that dovetails with our first big piece of news
today that I'm going to cover in more detail coming up in this hour.
Vladimir Putin has come out and warned that we must be extremely moral and that we must
be informed and involved, our AI will take over and basically enslave us, and that if
bad people get control of AI first, it will be used to again enslave humanity.
That's my big fear is that the globalists are going to use it for control, they use
everything else for that.
But Putin now warns of a future sci-fi superhuman soldiers more destructive than nuclear bombs
who feel no fear or pain.
The globalists want machines because they'll follow illegal orders, but the real goals
are to turn us into the machines, less human than human, but more human than human.
So let's go ahead, I will read the closed captions and play what the president of Russia
had to say.
This means that a man has the opportunity to get into the genetic code, created by either
nature or as a religious people would say by the God.
What kind of practical consequences may entail?
This means that one can already imagine, one may imagine that a man can create a man with
some given characteristics, not only theoretically, but also practically.
He can be a genius mathematician, a brilliant musician or soldier, a man who can fight without
fear, compassion, regret, or pain.
As you understand, humanity can either, and most likely it will, in the near future, a
very difficult and very responsible period of existence.
And what I have just described might be worse than a nuclear bomb.
When we do something, whatever we do, I want to reiterate again, we must never forget about
the ethical foundations of our work.
And that's it.
The Atlantean moment is here.
Will we destroy ourselves, as mythical Atlantis did, whether it existed or not?
We are now Atlantis.
Are we Atlantis 2 or Atlantis 1?
We don't know, but we are Atlantis.
Maybe we're Atlantis 5.
Oh yeah, we all at gut level and historically know this has all happened before.
Now ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best
selling product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle, and we're now purchasing so much
of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been
able to get it for less.
So I'm offering the first time ever 50% off, and I thought I could offer this for maybe
a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is, a whole bunch
of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39, it's $19.96 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free, triple eight, 253-3139.
These conspiracy theories were first spread by radio talk show host Alex Jones.
But to get the employee at YouTube on tape admitting that they do it, I mean you must
be a threat if they call you out by name.
It's fun.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones is a lunatic.
Because they know that these are legitimate news organizations.
And at that point somebody decides they're going to scroll past that and go find Alex Jones
while they were looking for him and speaking about that.
He's that man from the rest of this country.
There's a guy on the radio.
His name is Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
We're going to go find Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
It's time to stop submitting in this charity.
It's time to realize that we're being enslaved.
I heard that on Alex Jones.
Info wars went even further.
Info wars.
It's a radio show hosted by Alex Jones.
We are in an information war.
And we are losing that war.
Nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great man.
Info wars.com.
Info wars.com.
Info wars comes tomorrow.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Now, the war is the Info war.
You watch Info wars?
Info wars.
Info wars.
I got a tag going.
Looking at widely reported information from Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
I want freedom! That's what I want! And that's what you should want!
Hello, this is Hank Hill, and I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you again so much for joining us on this Monday, the 23rd day of October 2017.
We're going to be live here for the next four hours, Lord willing.
We're going to open the phones up and take a lot of your phone calls.
And we also have two guests joining us.
One of them is Omar Navarro, who despite the fact he has almost no corporate money,
zero big donor money, very small donations, is leading in some polls, in many polls is neck and neck,
or in some polls is behind Maxine Waters.
So that is very, very exciting to show just how unpopular she is in her own home state of California.
And if we just get behind Navarro and others, we can see big victory.
He's going to be joining us coming up to 30 minutes in the first of the next hour.
Here's the story up on Infowars.com and NewsWars.com.
GOP challenger arrest Maxine Waters for take Trump out threat.
News contributor warrants threat can inspire people to assassinate Republicans.
Well, we've already seen the hashtag hunt Republicans and all the rest of the garbage and the shootings of Republicans
and all the calls for violence.
We have November 4th coming up where they're going to literally have protests where they howl and scream at the sky.
That's what Antifa is organizing, bemoaning the fact that the stock markets come back and the jobs are coming back
and the competence is coming back.
So he'll be joining us. But the reason I want to mention Omar Navarro is he's not getting supported by the GOP establishment
despite the fact that many polls show him beating the other candidates who have thrown their hat in the ring.
And why is that important?
Because the same Republican establishment that told us that Donald John Trump could never be the 45th president of the United States
and the same establishment that told us we'd never have a 3% growth rate again. This was a post-industrial America.
China could have 10, 12, 15-point growth every year, but we could never have three again. We now have 3.1.
Those same groups told us that there was no way that Judge Moore would win in Alabama
and told us there was no way out in Montana and Wyoming and other special elections
that anti-establishment candidates would beat Democrats and runoffs
or beat Republicans in the primaries. But in seven different special elections,
the anti-establishment candidate has won in every single case.
But Mitch McConnell is making the rounds.
I was getting a cup of coffee right before we went live and there he was on Fox News saying,
people like Bannon lost us the last midterms. And none of that's even true. And we've got to stop this extreme Tea Party movement.
Ladies and gentlemen, is it the same Tea Party movement that put in an anti-globalist in Australia last year?
Is it the same Tea Party movement that had Brexit last year in the UK?
Is it the same loser movement that just saw the Czech Republic elects billionaire nationalist, skeptical of EU immigration,
modeling himself after Trump? Or globalist panic as populists dominate Italy's referendum?
They're voting to basically get out of the EU. They already voted last year to stop EU expansion.
And this year? I mean, every day, last week, it was Austria putting in a Donald Trump.
I mean, Iceland, Brazil, I mean, Catalonia is trying to split away with the libertarian movement.
Spain's saying they're going to declare martial law and federalize it.
That'll just make the Catalonians who voted 80 plus percent to pull out even more.
It's like a guy beating his wife up and saying, you're not going to leave me.
She may not leave that week, but she's figuring out how to leave.
She's getting a boyfriend and she's getting ready to move out, bro.
So it's like, oh, look, they're battling Brexit. They may derail it, derail it in front of everybody.
It'll only make the Brits 10 times more angry. That's how this works.
We're picking a fight with the globalists, ladies and gentlemen. We want them out on the field.
And if they're going to run over some of the better of us, that's just how the Tree of Liberty gets watered.
I mean, I'm all in, folks. I get it metaphysically. I want to be the front line.
I want to play chicken with these people. I want them to not turn.
I want them to drive completely head on at 150 miles an hour.
I'm going 150 dead on, baby, because there's one thing I know.
My children are going to be free at the end of the day, long after they're scraping me up off the highway.
That's victory. That's making sure. That's delivering the goods out of pure selfishness for humanity.
For my children, for your children to have a future.
A total sense of connectivity and timelessness before us, the present and the future.
And only if the species is dehumanized, annihilated or destroyed, do we fail.
We now have the Promethean fire. We have shown that we can use it.
And there's the stairway right there. Are you ready to mount that stairway, though?
Are you ready to join your vaunted ancestors in the great celebration of the human endeavor?
Or are you a cockroach that learns the knowledge and then uses it to dominate and keep people in childlike positions?
As Christ said, better for you to tie a giant stone around your neck and throw it in the deepest part of the ocean, a millstone,
than for you to hurt an innocent mind.
That means a mentally retarded person or a stupid person or an ignorant person or a child to take advantage of people.
Let me tell you, God doesn't like bullies.
And so you think you're going to take advantage of people less strong than you?
You're going to be taking advantage of. Don't you worry.
So we're beginning into all of that today.
But pulling back from this.
They're hammering Bannon, who I'm not saying is perfect, but understands populism and understands the great turning that's happened.
The Republic of Establishment is.
The Republic of Establishment that just a month ago wouldn't even meet with Trump is now reeling by him going around him on the budget
and by Luther Strange losing in Alabama and other special elections.
So now they've run back underneath Trump's skirts and they're acting like they're going to make deals with him and acting like they're going to work with him.
But that is only so that they get front and center support in the media to get all the big campaign donations so they can siphon them off
and make sure that only establishment Republicans get elected so they can continue to sabotage the takeover of America that we've engineered.
And make no mistake, you, the info horse listeners are the very frontline of the brainchild of the brain trust of 1776 Part 2.
That is going to carry us into the future.
And that's why they're bombarding you.
That's why they're attacking you.
So they're attacking Trump because he's a figurehead of that and is continuing to deliver.
But when you hear all this hype that, oh, Trump's got a 36 approval rating or he's got a 42 approval rating or he's got a 45.
Out of Gallup and all these others, all of those polls by who they target and who they call sample between 9 and 15 percent more Democrats.
And then demographically by who has landlines and other systems.
It's even more.
So when you're hearing Trump is at a 45, he's at a 65.
And I told you that during the election.
It was proven right.
These polls are as phony as $3 bills or as common core, you know, two plus two equals five.
It's that simple.
And that's what they hype and that's what they push.
So the big question is, are you dumb enough to believe the polls?
That separates the boys from the men.
Fully Cook Bacon.com.
Liberty on call.org.
You have the right to remain private.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to infoorstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infoorstore.com.
It is amazing.
infowarslife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left.
It's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless.
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win.
We're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing.
I want to thank you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Lobby t-shirts and you get the great books and videos, you're finding the tip of the spear again.
Visit infowarsstore.com today and commit to helping the info war.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You found it the tip of the spear. It is the Alex Jones show.
We are back live.
I am your host Alex Jones.
We have Omar Navarro running for Congress against Maxine Waters.
He's coming for her arrest after she came out and said she's going to take him out to a cheering crowd.
Pelosi is struggling to form sentences during TV interview, calls Robert Mueller mother.
Pelosi clearly has not early onset of Alzheimer's, but I would say is in the middle stages from folks I know that are on Capitol Hill.
They say she's got to take stimulants to even be able to get out in front of the camera.
Now Maxine Waters is obviously seen as well and thinks that Putin attacked Korea, not North or South, and that the U.S. attack Korea as well with Putin.
And then meanwhile, you've got the other Congress lady that's been attacking Trump.
Ms. Wilson saying that General Kelly, the chief of staff, is a racist for calling her dumb.
I mean, that's all you've got intellectually and then now you've been demanding apologies.
That shows how bankrupt these people are.
And then I see the five former presidents, Carter and Bush senior and Bush senior and Clinton and Obama with Lady Gaga behind them in this ridiculous photo that they tweeted out.
And then there's all this other video of Michelle Obama can't keep her hands off George W. Bush, who again reportedly is so hopped up on drugs on psychotrobics he can hardly talk.
And they're all just clinging to each other like a bunch of zombies or a bunch of vampires hoping to have relevancy.
And then they march out Mitch McConnell to tell us that, oh, our revolution's failing and that we're going to lose the Congress because we're supporting the Trump Revolution.
That's just a populist revolution of common sense that JFK would do.
I mean, Bush's tax cut was small.
Obama's tax increases were huge.
We can't compete with the corporate income tax is 40% when China has a 15%.
I mean, this isn't rocket science.
It's designed to deindustrialize our country.
The media spins it all these rich fat cats like the Clintons and the Bushes that got caught swindling the Haitian aid money and other aid money.
And now they're over the 30 million raised Friday night at college station.
And it goes into their private jets and their private foundation.
Oh, they don't own the jet.
The foundation owns the jet or the foundation pays for the jet so they can run around and act like kings on other people's money.
But you got to hand it to Jimmy Carter.
He knows when to leave a sinking ship.
He's come out and said there's no evidence of Russia collusion and he's never seen a president so demonized as Trump.
And he thinks Trump's doing a lot of good stuff.
And now, of course, it's coming up in the next segment.
Everything we told you about Mueller is coming out and being confirmed, except it's worse than I thought.
Everything we told you and then more.
But first, let's play a clip that they've been removing from YouTube strangely enough.
But it's total fair use for us to play a short clip of what she said.
100% protected under all laws, under common law, free market, you name it.
First amendment to analyze her for public interest to show her saying, don't worry, I'm going to take Trump out.
Here it is.
Wow.
What a moving evening this is.
I am sitting here listening, watching, absorbing, thinking about Ali, even though I never met him.
And with this kind of inspiration, I will go and take Trump out tonight.
So that doesn't mean political, obviously it means I'll go take him out tonight.
She'll go kill him.
She's really tough.
That's enough of the witch.
So there you go.
Now, you've got that arrogant megalomania delusion when she doesn't even live in her district.
It has several $3 million, $4 million houses.
But then bitches all day about rich people in America, not paying their fair share.
We've got Pelosi struggles to form sentences during TV interview called Robert Mueller mother.
Now, this by itself is like, okay, having a bad day.
We all fumble over words sometimes.
But every time I see her speak, I go, hey, let's watch this press conference live.
And she's just a bumbling buffoon.
We've got to take just her bumbling the last few months.
Maybe McBrain or one of the other great editors can do it and just boil it down to her bumbling.
And call it the mental disintegration of Nancy Pelosi mirrors the disintegration of the Democratic Party.
And all over the world, globalist, blue blood, liberal and conservative parties are being thrown out.
And populace that are common sense are being brought in.
Czech Republic, Austria, all the last week, Italy just had a referendum.
Boom to start pulling out of the EU.
They already had a referendum earlier this year to stop expansion.
Look at Brexit. It just goes on and on.
It's a beautiful thing we're seeing to see humanity awaken and to see the globalist media tanking, nose diving.
Here is Pelosi's latest bumbling buffoonering.
Robert Mueller comes back with a report saying that there is evidence of collusion between Donald Trump's campaign and Russia.
First of all, where does Mueller take that?
But his burden of proof is different than what it would be in the Congress of the United States.
People should know that. Maybe he could go to a criminal investigation if some of the people is investigating.
What we're doing is saying what the measure of behavior, the Constitution of the United States, has crimes and is demeanors.
But in any case, we've got to fight this tax bill. It's Armageddon.
The economy will come back for sure, a 7% growth rate that we haven't seen since 1963.
You can't have that. The recovery is already as good as Reagan's recovery that took him three years to get.
And then you're finished, aren't you?
If America comes back and works and is successful, boy, that's really going to screw things up for you.
Now, coming up, of course, he was blowing up my phone last night going, I've got sources. Mueller's about to start investigating Podesta.
I've got to get this article published because we have to obviously review all the articles that go up.
Of course, he's a great guy, but he's in D.C.
We kind of have a bottleneck here of getting stuff on the sides.
We're trying to hire more people, more editors, more researchers, more people to go over things.
But sure enough, the good news is we did publish it this morning.
And then now it's in NBC today, just like we broke the JFK news last Friday about the documents coming out this Friday.
Here it is, NBC News.
Mueller now investigating Democrat lobbyist Tony Podesta.
So we've been harping on this for almost two years, over a year and a half, and now the chickens are coming home to roost in a big way.
That's NBC News. So that's coming up in the next segment.
Senate probe asked whether Robert Mueller alerted Obama administration to Russia bribes scheme.
And then, of course, Obama killed it, so did Mueller.
Art Mueller invested in hedge funds linked to Russia and George Soros.
I mean, he was delivering uranium in bags on tarmacs.
Of course, he's calling myself and everybody else Russian spies because he's literally a Russian FSB bag man.
He's Putin's bitch.
In an emergency, you need a fire now.
But what if the wood is wet? No problem for InstaFire.
Our non-toxic fire starter packs, lights wet wood, floats, and can even burn on water or in any weather.
Sustain's winds up to 30 miles per hour, and each pouch weighs only 1.75 ounces.
Need an emergency or camp stove?
Get the InstaFire Inferno stove that boils 20 ounces of water in under three minutes with controllable heat,
from 425 to 1500 degrees, pre-shipping. Go to InstaFire.com and use discount code radio 30 at the three times for 30% off your order.
InstaFire. Fire in an instance.
Refresh your breath with Imrexistential's organic mouthwash.
Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste.
Imrexistential's mouthwash is non-GMO, certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals, or other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated, containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gum and freshen your breath.
His antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Imrexistential's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Imrexistential's. Visit infowarstore.com to learn more. That's infowarstore.com.
Mouthwash and supercharge your oral health are amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Listening to the Alex Jones show.
The US preparing to put nuclear bombers back on 24 hour alert as Trump brings thousands of retired Air Force pilots out of retirement.
The executive order to the draft for officers which is still constitutional according to the courts
is back in play which shows we're getting on a war footing.
We're going to get into that.
We're going to get into a newly assertive CIA expands its Taliban hunt in Afghanistan
and they've got contractors now working with the CIA and hunter killer teams, search and clear teams, seek and destroy teams
along with the Army and Navy's Navy SEALs and the Marines, I guess force recon forces are out there
going after the Taliban leadership and simply decapitating it so that then Trump can sue for peace in the next year,
make a business deal with the different warlords and pull out of the country with the development packages.
He said he would do two months ago but I had my sources.
He wasn't very clear.
It was billed as an expansion but at the time I said this isn't an expansion.
This is peace through strength, a build up before a build down, a beefing up before they pull out using contractors.
And the media ran with the headline that Eric Prince's plan was rejected by the White House though Mattis liked it,
Secretary of Defense and it just shows how Trump operates.
If you remember at the time I said I don't know if I should say this because I have my sources about what Trump's really doing.
He's going to keep his promise and get us out of Afghanistan but do it right where we're not hanging off helicopters like 1975 in Saigon, Vietnam.
I guess now Ho Chi Minh City.
But I said oh the media is just going to go with a disinfo so I'm going to let the audience know the truth that on the current course they're going to send in contractors
which are the more seasoned forces that haven't gotten killed already.
Most people in combat as you know get killed in the first few months.
That's where most of the casualties actually are. People that haven't gotten killed in 10, 15, 20, 25 years just have a knack for not getting killed.
It's just something about war. It's been recognized for thousands of years.
That's the way to keep casualties down.
The acronym I guess is SIF teams. That's not in the news but I was told that by some of these sources.
These SIF teams will be led by a CIA former military operative in command and control back to the White House and back to Mattis.
But now they've just been green-lighted and did not have to call back before they engage.
So the seeking destroy teams are going to decapitate Al Qaeda and ISIS, make the other super peace sign deals,
and then Trump's going to come in with the pipelines, the gas lines, the lithium mines,
and see if we can tame the Afghans by giving them a carpet of gold instead of a carpet of bombs.
See that's how the Chinese are taking over Africa and South America and Central America and Asia is with economics.
And so what Trump's doing is very pragmatic and very, very smart if he can get the military and the CIA to pull it off
and not sabotage from within because the CIA is just filled at the management level with globalist operatives as we all know.
And it's always been trying to absorb the U.S. military.
But basically what Trump's doing is just saying, nobody's going to absorb anybody.
You're going to go out on a mission and you're going to kill these people.
So we'll see what's going to happen.
The argument is if we don't wipe out the Taliban leadership, they'll just reconfigure and become a new haven for ISIS and Al Qaeda bases,
which I know was globalist and UN and NATO and CIA built up and controlled.
I'm the guy that popularized all that information. People are always emailing me and commenting.
Trump's not doing that. It's a straightforward policy that we had back until the early 1960s where this is our straightforward policy,
soft power, we're going to do what we say we're going to do.
If you double cross us, we're going to destroy you, but we're not going to double cross anymore.
You know, tell Gaddafi 15 years ago, I guess 12 years ago, oh, coming from the dark, be our friend.
Invest all your money with the West and we'll be your friend.
So he brings in the Fortune 100, totally puts the money of Libya in with big Western banks.
He thinks Obama's his friend, Obama comes and meets with him, tells him they're friends.
They totally set him up, send in the teams, scope the whole area out,
case the whole thing, bring in ISIS forces, Al Qaeda forces out of Egypt and bring it down.
And then they bring down our ally in Egypt and they start trying to bring down all the other countries.
That's what Obama did with the Muslim Brotherhood funded out of Saudi Arabia was just a gigantic double cross of biblical proportions.
So I'm going to get more into that.
We're going to get more into, I'll have to do it next time because I've already expended too much time.
This is so big that I knew Mueller was on the Russian payroll.
I knew he was a bag man for uranium.
I knew he was in companies that got Russian money.
I knew the Clintons and the Obama's got a lot of money from it, hundreds of millions of dollars.
I knew they were super corrupt, but it's one thing to know it and then no one's listening to you.
I guess folks were listening a few years ago, but to now see it all over the news and see it completely turn and blow up in their face.
It's just crazy.
Mueller has, let me not exaggerate, 100,000 times the ties to the Russian intelligence than Trump does.
Because Trump, there's literally nothing but a couple meetings trying to find out if Hillary was on the Russian payroll.
You can read the newspaper and know that.
And then with them, they are literally super in bed with them to just an over-the-top level.
And so here it is now, NBC News, Mueller now investigating Democrat lobbyist Tony Podesta,
who got the tens of millions of dollars for the Uranium One deal.
And they keep saying for 20% of our uranium, it's at least 30% of known reserves.
They've got another calculation where they say, well, we believe that there may be more uranium here or there, so we're saying it's only 20 now.
It's semantical, 30% of known reserves.
So our credibility, your credibility as a patriot is just going up and up and up.
I have had people live on video when I'm in downtown Austin or in Seattle, you've seen it.
Run up and scream, F-U Russian agent, you're going to prison.
Roger Stone lives in New York part of the time.
He's thinking about moving out.
It's so bad he can't go to the store with his wife without people running up screaming F-U Russian spy F-U F-U.
They're always slime-backed Democrats with their whole history of wanton communism and socialism.
They just hate Russia now that it's Christian and try to say we're Russian agents.
It's like saying I'm a Chinese jet pilot.
I mean, it's just ridiculous.
But I do want the globalists off my back and I do want Russia to be free.
So, see, I'm a fellow traveler with Russia because I want the same thing.
Nationalism, family, prosperity, justice, honor.
We're going to go to break them back with the details of the big news.
But first, thank you all for committing to support the broadcast and spreading the word, spreading the articles, spreading the videos,
spreading the live video and audio links and the free podcast links and the free iPhone and Android app links.
That's how you wake somebody up.
Hey, here's the forbidden info that they don't want you to have.
Here's the cutting edge information the globalists are so afraid of.
Find out why they say he's fake news because he's the real news.
The news a year before, a month before, a week before, a day before anybody else info wars from real research, real focus and please buy the products.
We have a limited time only sales at infowarstore.com of our amazing new tropic brain force that I was going to say I was going to end this weekend.
But now we're getting more in a little bit earlier.
We're getting some in December 1st.
Now, I thought it was going to be maybe even January until we got more in, but we rushed it.
So I was going to go to regular price so that we wouldn't sell out, you know, by the end of the year.
But but now we it's getting in about a month earlier.
So I'm going to keep it at 50% off for just a few more days.
Also, in tropics, you talk about amazing, the dry component, the dry pill version of super mobile.
It's very strong, though, folks.
It's very affordable usually, but right now it's 50% off and the new sales colloidal silver silver bullet.
50% off and that is a very limited sale.
Thank you all for your support infowarslife.com.
We'll be back.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brain Force.
Now Brain Force Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already are stocking up.
They know how great it is a whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brain Force is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39. It's $19.96 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free.
Cripple 8253 3139.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
Emrex Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emrex Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
My son is growing like a weed using it. It's bigger than I am already. 15 incredible.
It is amazing.
infowarslife.com 50% off caveman, but only a few days left. It's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless. We're bold.
Because we understand the stakes are too high. The globalists win. We're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing. I want to thank you. We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Labe T-shirt, you get the great books and videos, you're fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit infowarsstore.com today and commit to helping the info war.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven
to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains
that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public.
So please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
You are listening to an infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
And notice as soon as Stephen Bannon and as soon as the Libertarian movement, the Republican Party, started calling this war, we started winning.
As soon as we called out the globalists, as soon as we got in their faces, as soon as we let them know that we understand they hate our guts
and want to make us their political and cultural and financial slaves, as soon as we broke the conditioning and stopped caring what they thought about us,
as soon as we focused our will, like a horrible, dark thunderstorm, and suddenly the sun breaks through the clouds and the wind blows
and the whole darkness rolls away, you're standing looking out, green vistas, a black sea, a yellow sun high on the sky.
Then you touch the face of destiny and you feel the ancient will of the species, God's hand on our development.
And then you only wish for success and you feel the interconnected strength of the will and there's no more fear.
This is the victory against the globalist. Would you like to know more? This is the transmission. God bless you. Thank you for joining us.
Now, let me get into the Democrat Party News. The Democratic Party is done unless we let the mind control us by just nagging and stirring up trouble
and lying to where we just get tired of their squawking like a demonic parrot and just give up and go away.
That's one way we can lose. Go back to sleep. Number two, if we let the Republic of Establishment manipulate us and make us think we've totally won
and that they somehow are on our side and don't continue to move towards removing that twin cancer, that sigmes cancer.
We can also lose and there's different variant political future combinations of that possible future timeline.
Big wars could also spring up that could derail an attempt to launch a new technological revolution, a cultural revolution
of human empowerment that will make the Western expansion of the United States and the Wild Wild West furor that we've already seen look like a cakewalk,
both for its opportunities and its dangers. But if we can get the globalist parasites off our backs who want to direct implosion,
to control implosion and sit atop that implosion to kill competition, we can remove those little greedy creatures off our backs.
We've got a real shot at the future because they're so reckless. They're just pale male, maximum testing, fission fusion,
strangelets, black holes, super cyclotron, collider systems, genetic engineering completely off the chain, thousands of labs, gene gun, random splicing,
open air testing, pharmacological crops, chimera humanoids, just the sky's the limit of what we know.
They say they want a global government so we don't destroy ourselves and then they're the ones handing out nuclear weapon technology
like their lollipops when you visit the dentist. They're crazy. What they are is possessed by a spirit,
an archetype, some type of interdimensional vampire. I don't know, but they want to blow the planet up.
They really, really, really want to kill everybody. I don't know if it's some space transmission or what it is,
because we know there's a sixth sense and a whole dimension to that. Is this some kind of jamming operation to make us kill each other?
Kind of like The Kingsman, the first episode of that. I don't know. I'm just hypothesizing, but I know it's going on.
I know they're out to get us. They don't act like they're human. The globalists act like they're not of this world,
just like the Bible says, and they're here to kill, steal, and destroy. You know, fallen angels. Bad guys, fallen angels.
Two and two together, folks. They think we're all stupid here. And you can see what we're already creating, aliens on Earth,
with all these human animal and animal animal and insect animal and animal plant hybrids.
But let me just stop right there. All the presidents huddling together on TV, all the old presidents, and coming out against Trump,
it's a sign of total desperation. And I know you know that. But the least of our problems is getting these globalists off our backs.
If we just start realizing that our potential is limitless, if we take action and promote justice and truth,
and that getting them off our backs seems like a big feat, but we're very close to doing it, the big feat is going to be not blowing the planet up.
Because even if we try to not kill ourselves, we are getting godlike power right now.
Little G, the power we have 50 years ago is greater than the mythical Zeus had 2,500 years ago in the minds of the Grecians and the Cretans and all the rest of them.
So these little stumbling blocks and getting past Hollywood and kind of the mesmerized mind control state we were in, that's the child's play.
And now we're just getting a breath because the next obstacles are here.
So here it is, total vindication. Just like we told you at this very time last week, that the president was looking, barring new information to release the JFK files.
He tweeted the next morning those exact words, because those were directly from him.
Media that Friday said, look at Jones and Stone, fake news, Trump's not going to release it. Our CIA sources say, well, you have your CIA sources, we have the president.
And they just can't stand it. They just can't stand it, you see.
And right here, like we told you weeks ago, this was coming, the day we broke it, Mueller now investigating Democrat lobbyist Tony Podesta for the Uranium One deal.
And I know you've heard Uranium One probably 5,000 times since January of 2016 here.
Again, why do you think they came out and said, myself, Roger Stone, Trump, his sons are all Russian agents?
Because Trump had Trump Jr., Donald Jr. absolutely digging into all this.
And so what do you do when you're a Russian minion? They're not a Russian spy, they just got paid off by him. That's just money.
What are you going to do when that happens?
You're going to point the fingers at the people that catch you.
One of the oldest tricks in the book is, you know, you catch somebody robbing your neighbor's house and another neighbor shows up and doesn't know either one of you.
And the guy carrying out the computer says, he's actually the thief. Hold your gun on him. Good.
Let's wait until the cops get here. Good job.
And then as soon as that guy with the gun starts walking off, he runs.
That's exactly what we've got here.
So Mueller now investigating Democrat lobbyist Tony Podesta.
Get more into this in the next hour.
Senate probe asked whether Robert Mueller alerted Obama administration to Russia bribery scheme.
Well, yeah, they killed the investigation. That's all confirmed.
But see now it's mainstream news.
Robert Mueller investigated and invested.
He's being investigated for investing in hedge funds linked to Russia and George Soros.
We told you years ago that happened.
Mueller investigating Info Wars expose of Dems on Russia payroll.
Dr. Jerome Corsi. So that is now all again coming directly from Info Wars.
And Dr. Corsi, who first broke that they'd looted $300 billion from Fannie Mae Freddie Mac.
He did that before the president was even in office.
He did that when his president elect from his White House sources.
And we say the White House went with our report.
We got that from the White House saying, look at these federal documents.
Do a report on it to give the president support when he does this.
And now 10 months later, he's doing it.
But again, the president does get the credit for that.
I just want everybody to know what's going on here because there's no hiding this anymore.
It's why they're so horrified of the daily Info Wars stacks.
He calls them the stacks and the clips.
And Info Wars is in there every day from other people.
They're trying to stop that.
But Trump's like anybody when you try to keep away from something, what happens?
You tell your kids, you know, whatever you do, don't go in this trunk in the bedroom.
And in the trunk is a stack of playboys.
I once saw a bumper sticker.
If you want your children to listen to you, whisper and act like you don't want them to hear you.
NBC, ABC, maintain Clinton, Iranian blackout.
CBS finds it five days late.
That's all coming up and more second hour.
And again, I'm not bragging about Info Wars.
I'm bragging about you, the audience, supporting us.
And the fact they tried to brand us as fake news because they know it's fake news.
They can't exist while real news is there.
Second hour coming up with Omar Navarro running for Congress against good old Maxine Waters
who's calling for Trump's death, basically.
That's coming up.
Please spread the links to infowars.com forward slash show where radio listeners can all find the free video and audio feeds as well.
And please don't forget, we're about to end the 50% off on the Brain Force plus a new tropic brain pill that's so powerful and that gets such rave reviews.
And we have 50% off now on colloidal silver, silver bullet for a very limited time at infowarsstore.com.
We'll be back.
In the history of Info Wars life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products.
And this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean. That means it's pure.
And rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the Info War.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Wars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness.
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
I'm Alex Jones, your host.
Thank you so much for joining us.
We're broadcasting worldwide on this Monday, 23rd day of October, 2017.
You're of our Lord.
I say you're of our Lord.
If we don't have a God above government, even if you're an atheist, you're going to end up then having men like Kim Jong-un above you who will have godlike powers of life and death over you.
So those that seek to make the state God so that it can operate as a magic genie to then give you whatever you wish can also take everything away from you and always ends up becoming oppressive, authoritarian and extremely abusive and psychopathic.
So remember that.
We're in a beautiful time right now.
We are witnessing the death of the Democratic Party.
We are witnessing the destruction of the Republican Party leadership.
And we're watching them repeat the same lies that they were fever pitch involved in one year ago today.
Hard to believe that we are just two weeks out from November 8th, a little more than two weeks out, 15, 16 days.
Think about that.
The one year anniversary of Donald Trump being elected, something mainstream media said could never happen and would never happen.
Madam President, Newsweek and others already had hundreds of thousands of copies printed up with fake photos of there she is on election night.
Celebrating.
They even were coordinating with her on what she'd wear that night so it match up.
That's how choreographed the fake news is.
Beyond teleprompters, beyond scripting, choreographed like a ballet, but with really ugly, horrible, demonic pedophiles as the players upon the stage.
Warmongering scum, people that steal billions of dollars of aid money for themselves, monsters.
And now you have the Democratic Party as a coastal party and their members are getting more delusional, more radical, more hateful, more out of control.
In an attempt to bully us back into submission, they create bigger and bigger fanciful lies about how we're Nazis and we're rapist.
But it's Hollywood and the EU it's turning out that are rape factories and pedophile factories.
They're the ones raping and abusing women. Now the chauffeur of many years of Weinstein's gone public and said the women would beg and he'd rape them.
They'd say please don't hurt me as he twisted their arms behind their backs and rape them from behind.
Everything they accused us of now it's coming down on them.
And as they get more radical, it makes people more and more sick of them as they throw bigger temper tantrums.
The public turns more against them.
And so you see the pathetic presidents all huddling together the former chief puppets wishing like Pinocchio that they could be a real boy like Donald Trump.
Not a perfect boy, but a real boy. Gee, could I be a real boy? And not a marionette?
Of Stromboli. Ha ha ha ha. Yes, you dance to my tune, little wooden boy.
You're not your own man. You work for Stromboli now. Ha ha ha.
And if you don't, I break you in two. Ha ha ha ha.
So you sit there little boy in your little cage and when I tell you dance, you dance.
You see, but we don't want to dance anymore because we're real boys.
We're not your little puppets now and that's my crime and your crime and Trump's crime and Rand Paul's crime and Vladimir Putin's crime.
And the new Czech president's crime and the new Italian parliament's crime and the Brazilian movement's crime and the Catalonian crime and all the other crimes.
It's always the same crime. We don't want to be your slaves. We don't want to think like you think and say what you say.
We're our own people and you can't beat that, can you?
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using EmRick's Essentials. Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new EmRick's Essentials line of organic products.
That's infowarstore.com.
Writers on the Storm
Into this house we're born
Into this world we're thrown
Like a dog without a bone and a hacker out of law
Writers on the storm
She wants somebody else to do it. This old mommy with her rubber face and her rotting brain.
She wants somebody else to do it for.
GOP challenger arrest Maxine Waters for take Trump out threat.
We're going to talk to Omar Navarro running for Congress against her here in just a moment.
It's a good chance at winning.
And you know when I call her an evil twisted rotting brained globalist dumbo.
I wonder the media will say I'm saying that because she's black.
Because Pelosi's got another rotting evil brain and a big old rubber face as well.
Two peas in a pod.
Congresswoman Wilson has demanded an apology from the White House Chief of Staff General Kelly.
Frederica Wilson has.
First she said this weekend he was racist for saying empty barrels make the biggest noises.
Well that's something he said in many speeches.
It's a Marine Corps saying about you fire a big blank out of a cannon.
It's a lot louder than one that actually fires a projectile.
And she is an idiot getting in the middle of the president calling grieving families.
Something that Obama didn't do very often something Bush didn't do very often.
And something Kelly told the president you probably shouldn't do because it's rough.
It's tough calls that really matter from their friends calling the families to give them the news that their son or daughter in some cases has died.
And then the White House spokeswoman came out and said hey he's a Gold Star family too.
Don't question the way he would talk to another family because we're not supposed to question the Gold Star families.
Because the Democrats said that back during the campaign remember.
And they took that out of context and said oh it's a dictatorship.
You're saying we can't question anybody in the administration.
This is all part of their semantical parsing and manipulation.
Joining us is Omar Navarro.
He's also a Fox News contributor.
He's a small business owner and has worked with many Fortune 500 companies.
He earned his bachelor's degree in criminal justice.
He also assisted victims of crimes in Los Angeles.
This attorney's office Omar is a coordinator for the Unified Small Business Alliance Outreach Program in 2012.
Omar was advocate against the redistricting commission maps for gerrymandering.
He serves as a local traffic commissioner in the city of Torrance, California.
Twitter at Press GOP.
YouTube Omar Navarro.
Instagram at Press GOP.
And he's done amazing demonstrations out front.
Several of the mansions of Maxine Waters.
Who doesn't live in her district and says that it's wrong if you have any money and the free market's bad.
But she certainly wants to take advantage of it.
And now she's clearly talking about violence.
Let's play this clip that they're trying to take down on YouTube, Facebook, you name it.
Claiming copyright, you name it.
No, we have fair use right as a news organization.
It's like Fox or CNN or anybody else to sit here and show you what she said in context to analyze it.
She's a public figure. Here is the clip.
Wow.
What a moving evening this is.
I am sitting here listening, watching, absorbing, thinking about Ali, even though I never met him.
And with this kind of inspiration, I will go and take Trump out tonight.
Hashtag Hunt Republicans, Scalise, all of it.
Day of Rage, November 4th uprising, on and on and on.
They're trying to hype this up.
We've got Phil Mudd, former deputy director of the CIA on CNN saying we're getting ready to kill the president in the next few months.
You've got just a lot of them really trying to get somebody else to make the move.
Well, I'm glad that Omar Navarro's there.
We have his Twitter statement.
I'd like him to make his own statement for the news and everybody else right now.
So first, let me thank you for coming on with us, sir.
Thank you for having me on.
Right now you've got the floor.
Make your statement, you know, not just a Twitter one in your own words to Maxine Waters about what you'd like to see.
Yeah, well, I'd like to see, well, Maxine Waters thinks she's above the law.
The Maxine Waters crime family, they think that they can do anything they want and they can get away with it.
This is the problem we have with career politicians that are in office, especially over 27 years.
Maxine Waters is out of touch while she lives high in a $4.3 million mansion.
And the rest of the district can't even afford carne asada.
They're struggling.
They're suffering.
They're in the streets.
People are just tired of having these politicians and just talk, talk, talk and take no action.
I'm going out.
I'm taking action.
We just launched our campaign headquarters in the city of Torrance.
We're taking it straight to her on a grassroots level and we're mounting a strong national campaign against her.
That's amazing.
Again, so far we have your Twitter statement, but just in your own words, go ahead and call for what you're calling for.
Yeah, you know, I'm outraged that Maxine Waters would do this.
Would actually go on on TV and actually call out for assassination attempt on the president of the United States.
I think the Secret Service needs to arrest Maxine Waters.
She thinks she's above the law.
She's not above the law.
She is subject to the law just like everybody else.
But like I said earlier, the Maxine Waters crime family think they're above the law.
And you're calling for her to be investigated or arrested?
I'm calling for her to be arrested.
Well, she should.
I mean, if you or I talk like this, we'd bare minimum get a Secret Service visit.
Yeah, you know, it's like this.
If you go out there and you make an attempt to assassinate the president of the United States, you should be arrested for your words.
I mean, at the end of the day, this is not like it was like a free speech where you say, oh, I think the president should go to hell.
I think the president, this and this, an opinion, but this is an assassination attempt.
This is different.
She should be arrested for an assassination attempt.
That's right.
She has power.
She has millions of followers.
And she's saying, I'll take him out tonight.
Maxine Waters to step down.
She needs to step down out of office.
She needs to get out of office.
No sitting Congresswoman should be should be making an assassination attempt on the president of the United States.
And you're right.
I mean, when they've had top Democrats, even on Fox News, say hashtag on Republicans and CNN, they know what they're doing.
It's like if I got up on air and said somebody needs to kill such and such, I would be basically involved in terrorist threats.
I would be racketeering.
I would be contributing to that.
I'd be yelling fire in the theater.
And if somebody got killed, I would be an accessory.
Look, Alex, we live in a tough time right now where like I was recently in the city of Long Beach where they're in a library.
They're teaching young kids, a five horned demon is teaching young kids.
And I go to the city council and I seek my grievances and I file a complaint about it.
And what happens is they twist the public library takes down their statement and takes down the tweet.
And I basically take a screenshot of it.
I share it and it goes out there.
But this is what this is what the left does.
The left wants to push a false narrative.
They want to indoctrinate our kids.
They want to teach demonic teachings.
They want to teach our kids that it's okay to be above the law.
No one is above the law.
We are a nation of laws.
We cannot be law-
And I totally agree.
And I'm not against gay people, people with men that want to dress like women.
But when all over the country, they bring in drag queens dressed scarier than hit the clown.
And then there's video of the drag queen saying, you're going to be drag queens kids.
You're going to be this or that.
I don't want heterosexuals coming in and telling kids what they're going to be.
This is a clear sexualization agenda.
And that's exactly what's happening in our schools today.
They're trying to desensitize the kids.
They're trying to make them acceptable to a 5-4 agreement.
We don't know what's the objective behind this, but there's something behind this.
Oh yeah, it's going on all over the place.
Well, it's lesser magic.
They believe they can do it openly.
Then that opens the gate to the larger operation.
Stay right back. Stay with us.
Only at www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size
for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
www.catiarmor.com
