Waging War on Corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
It's Tuesday the 23rd day of October 2018. We are now 14 days, 2 weeks to the incredible midterms.
And just as I predicted, wasn't hard to predict by the way, it's a playbook.
The globalist plunged, starting with the Chinese market in 2008, just weeks ahead, 2 weeks ahead of the 2008 election to make sure it went to Barack Obama.
And now, 2 weeks exactly ahead of the midterms. 2 weeks from now there will be people voting.
Here in America, the stock market goes down more than 500 points and all these former Federal Reserve chairmen from Volcker to Greenspan come out and say,
it's the end of the world, it's going down. And guess who led the stocks going down in Monday and Tuesday's trading on the other side of the world?
The Chycoms who pump $100 billion a month into their fake stock market that is the most inflated the world has ever seen.
They led with not pumping money in the last week and not buying US Treasuries to do this bigger than Dallas, Texas, naked in your face.
Right on time, 2 weeks before to try to rattle the economy and now they're piling on everywhere in the globalist media trying to drive down the stock market, trying to kill the US recovery.
People are like, well, it is fiat, most of it. Yeah, and China's is even a bigger bubble. The point is we have globalist enemies trying to manipulate our economy.
That's an executable offense in China. So it just shows you how crazy it is.
There's another one. This is in mainstream Canadian papers. The Chinese military with the Canadian military just put super high tech subsensors in international waters right off the US coast.
Candidates stalls underwater Chinese modern devices in a joint operation against the United States. And of course they use university funding through the Chycom op to do it.
Ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, they had a understanding the rhetoric of Donald Trump and Alex Jones event with the city street shut down on Congress front of the Capitol.
I go down to the event. And when I started saying the USA is back, they literally started screaming and hessing last night with the anti Trump protesters in Houston.
I would just say America is back and they would all look like they'd seen Freddie Krueger that literally they would their skin would get pale like vampires to to to holy water.
And it just made me realize these people are crazy.
When we come back, we're going to play some of these clips of the president saying I'm a nationalist, I believe in doing what's good for our nation.
And they're literally all of the news, like he said, I want to feed babies into woodchippers. But that shows how whacked out the corporate media is the universities and these big corporations that are globalist.
That of course they have to have an anti American system America dominated the world through ideas 50 years ago.
We had 54% of the wealth that we were 4% of the population of the planet 4% out of 100%. We had over half the wealth because of ideas, because other places had elites that didn't allow competition and that censored.
But we had the Renaissance and we had America and we had 1776. So they are always attacking the American system because they can't compete with it.
And Donald Trump is bringing it back and the country's coming back. And they are literally flipping out. I can't believe it. It's so incredibly horrible.
This is the worst thing I've ever seen. Oh my God, Donald Trump. I mean, these quotes are incredible.
Trump declares himself a nationalist CNN says it's racist. You've got to go read the clips because you think he came out for child molestation, something Hollywood and HBO and vice have done.
But no, he didn't come out for child molestation like the corporate media has or like salon has.
He came out saying it's okay to love your country and they literally are acting like Linda Blair with their head spinning.
Folks, the China has announced official human clones for sale. It's all happening. They've been cloning humans for 30 years, but now they're about to roll it out.
Public get a clone of yourself. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
Fueling your body is hard work. That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right. Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients. These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins. There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the info wars life daily digestive pack today.
We're now only T minus 14 days. That's two weeks until the middle of the most important election in world history. A referendum on natural resources.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're now only T minus 14 days. That's two weeks until the middle of the most important election in world history. A referendum on nationalism versus globalism. President Trump has declared himself the nationalist as I told you he would do last week.
We're synced up. Ladies and gentlemen, I went to the Trump rally yesterday. The first one I've gone to when we had tickets to go inside and passes as well and Rob do went in and did great coverage and that HD video we're going to have for you right there in front of the stage.
I mean, right there front and center, but I was outside where 40,000 people got turned away but watched on jumbo trons. They were all asking, why aren't you inside? And I'm like, it's 60 degrees out here and gorgeous. And this is where all the people are.
And I'm getting to watch on the jumbo trons and interview you. But it's incredible footage where I really couldn't even do interviews. We have hours and hours and hours of incredibly good looking, diverse crowd of blacks, Hispanics, white folks, a lot of Asian Americans.
Very, very proud folks. All dressed nice. All super articulate. And the most articulate people I ran into were all these black folks that you never see behind the stage with Trump.
Because the media goes, oh, look, there's a token black guy that's blacks for Trump that goes around. That's because he wants to follow around his friends with the trumps. But I mean, I was mobbed by black people who were way better spoken than I was. I mean, the best speakers I've ever heard on Trump and that HD video is coming.
We've got hours and hours and hours of it. I was very, very impressed. I've got to go to more of these Trump rallies. I just get pinned down here. 90% of people would go, it's out of shoes. It's out of shoes.
And take photos or anything. I mean, it wasn't like half of them were in full wars listeners. And a good 10% were wearing in full wars shirts.
So just no doubt, folks, you launched the Trump phenomenon and America coming back from the dead. There's some of the footage do shot. You did it. You did.
And man, do they hate me though. We had 18 Twitter accounts, a bunch that weren't even ours.
People that restream us and stuff. We're out there covering it, showing all this and showing the 15 anti-Trump demonstrators that showed up screaming. They were going to rape us and they were going to kill me.
We have all that HD footage. We'll be playing it today and tomorrow. But there's a lot of bleeping has to be done. It was insane.
And they had the stupid Trump balloon from England floating around and the media was all standing around them and then Amy and I said, watch the media is going to come over.
Because I was, you know, they're covering the protesters. I said, watch, they're going to come over here and say, oh, look, your crowd isn't big because no one was watching the anti-Trump demonstrators.
I'd come over there and about 20 listeners had followed me over. It was about, you know, three blocks away from the main convention center where this was happening.
The Toyota Center, I said to my crew live on there, I said, watch, the media is going to run over here and say, look, your crowd's small. No one's here for Trump.
And they all came over and said exactly that five minutes later. They all met. They all talked. What was going to be their BS line?
Okay, we're going to say this is who came out of the Toyota Center, 20 people with Alex Jones. And they walked over and did it. I know the enemy.
So they banished on 18 Twitter accounts and the headlines are Jones banned for saying no one died at Parkland shoot.
I guess they know people are sick of hearing about Sandy Hook over and over again and the twisted disinfo the media puts out that I've supposedly said.
So they go to the big lie they tried four months ago when they said that I said no one died at Parkland. They're all crisis actors.
And they show quotes everywhere, but there is no quote. There is no audio or video. And I could say that if I wanted to, it's my free speech.
But think about that. Hundreds and hundreds of articles everywhere saying Jones banned and you read because he said no one died at Parkland.
And they were quote crisis actors. Didn't ever say that.
And there's these big celebrations. Yay, ban him taking completely off the air. These people are out of control.
But notice, see, this isn't three months ago when I was banned on those other platforms and it made all this big news. People are upset.
No, now they don't even deny that they're censoring. They're very, very proud of it. But everybody else being banned, you're not hearing about them.
And that's what's so dangerous about this. But I'm going to get more to that later. But here's the good news.
America is awake. The sleeping giant is awakening.
Here's the bad news. The people that look like escapees from a mental institution who were protesting against Trump all looked completely like they were from central casting from one who flew over the cuckoo's nest.
And they were all screaming the most vicious hateful crap you can imagine. KKK go away, no borders, no walls, no USA at all.
And when I would say USA's back, it looked like I was tearing their guts out.
And the bad news is they're backed by big tech. They're the type of folks that manage all the censorship and they are getting more and more radicalized and more and more dangerous.
They're the ally with the communist Chinese, the unelected Soros, the unelected EU had Yunker.
And they're making their move right now against this country.
And the good news is people are awake. The bad news is I saw all these incredible people out there saying, hey, I still tune in at infowars.com.
But when you get back on YouTube or Twitter, and I'm like, listen, I'm being purged. You're being purged. Use these platforms and fight against them and build your own platforms.
If you had those 100,000 people that showed up in Houston, it was about 100,000 total. It was incredible.
If they were all setting up their own websites, but also using Twitter, using Facebook, using Google to fight back, the censors could never stop them all.
But they're all counting on, oh, look, it's Alex Jones. Thank God you're here. You woke me up. You exposed global government.
You explain globalism versus nationalism. We can see that, you know, Trump is rebooting everything you're talking about.
You woke up my husband. You woke up my daughter. You know, they woke me up and I'm saying, yes, that's great, but now you have to get involved.
And it's great to come out to a Trump rally. And it's great to do it, but shoot a video. Talk about an issue.
Reach out to your neighbors. Get them to vote because the illegal aliens are voting in mass. There's massive corruption taking place.
And we could lose this election, not because the country's not awake, but because they're mailing absentee ballots of people that have been dead for decades to people I know.
Other talk show hosts we have online, Joel Gilbert and family, and it's all over the news that all over the country, everyone's getting these absentee ballots filled out in Spanish.
So just imagine what's happening. The establishment is going all out, ladies and gentlemen.
Now, you notice it was China 10 years ago in 2008 on this very day, two weeks out from the election, that stopped pumping money into its stock market.
And then that triggered a bunch of stuff over here with Lehman Brothers and all the rest of that. But that was just the cover story.
It was really in the China markets, the Asian markets. Same thing, China market drop leads world stocks lower. Yahoo News, AP.
Global banking stocks are crashing hard just like they did in 2008.
They're doing this ahead of the election. It's totally staged.
That's coming up. Trump's incredible speech on nationalism and how it's freaking out the globalist and their leftist slaves.
Obama goes and talks to a tiny crowd. They edit the video to be deceptive.
It's amazing. That is just some of the information we're going to be breaking down.
Sacramento B admits the Democrats hire crisis actors to fill their stadiums and there's lawsuits now involved.
We're going to be breaking all that down and more plus huge stacks of proof of massive election fraud.
But before we go to break, remember, without you sharing the links, without you sharing the videos and articles at infowars.com on your email, your Facebook, your Twitter,
we will not have a voice and this key tip of the spear American reboot will be destroyed.
If you don't realize how earnest it is, how two minutes to midnight is and how you're critical, infowars.com.
Whatever you do, keep sharing that with people and saying, this is the verboten information.
This is what they don't want you to have. It truck stops and it colleges and on the street and it church infowars.com.
The reboot of America is nothing where we've come so close, but we're still not over the top.
And remember, our mega sale has to end this week. Free shipping store wide, 50% off on all the supplements.
It has to end final days of the super sale.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Remember your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
To find yours, visit Gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Gene Company.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Faced off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is shared with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source, prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
Doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today in FoursLife.com.
It's Alex Jones.
A globalist is a person that wants the globe to do well, frankly, not caring about our country so much.
And you know what? We can't have that. You know, they have a word. It sort of became old fashioned.
It's called a nationalist. And I say, really, we're not supposed to use that word.
You know what I am? I'm a nationalist, okay? I'm a nationalist.
National. Nothing. Use that word. Use that word.
I would call in the military and I would seal off the border. I would close up the border.
If that happens and if that continues to move forward, the caravan we're talking about, which is, I think, a man-made caravan.
You want to know the truth. I think some bad people started that caravan.
More importantly, or maybe almost as importantly, you have some very, very bad people in the caravan.
You have some very tough criminal elements within the caravan.
But I will seal off the border before they come into this country.
I'll bring out our military. Not our reserves. I'll bring out our military.
Donald Trump is an anti-Christ, this man says. If he doesn't repent, he's going to hell.
We are not criminals. We are workers and fighters.
We're live broadcasting worldwide. Thank you for joining us on this Tuesday edition.
When I start the next segment, I'm going to do my very, very best to really focus here and really deliver the key message.
I'm going to try hard.
Because if Americans don't get this message, we're going to go to total slavery.
We are being militarily and corporately conquered by a criminal global consortium that absolutely has it out to break our will and destroy our families
because they have a metaphysical goal to destroy the potential of America and its Christian destiny.
And they want to rob that destiny from you and your family.
The Communist Chinese are deliberately plunging their stock market right now to bring ours down 14 days out from the election.
That's clear. We predicted that that would happen.
I said two weeks out from the election on record.
And I also have clips coming up of them absolutely demonizing and attacking the president for calling himself a nationalist.
We're going to play a longer clip of that coming up for you in the next segment.
I'm tempted just to play old Trump's speech. That way it all gets out.
And then I'm also going to get into what I think they're going to pull in the next 14 days before this election.
Then we have a large stack of news in the final segment of this hour that is probably the most critical at this juncture.
And that is the election fraud that's taking place for the Democrats publicly.
And then there are bizarre denials about it and claiming that Trump is insanely making things up.
So that is going to be coming up as well.
So we're going to be breaking all of that down here today.
But I'm going to say this again to listeners.
Authoritarianism has come to this nation.
The brainwashed left are living on another planet.
And we can't just sit here and laugh at them anymore because they're organized with big corporations, big tech,
the Communist Chinese, the unelected EU, the America Hating Hollywood in a coalition that hates this country and that hates your prosperity
and is born and bred to try to take you down.
That's who they are.
They're the collaborators.
They're the traders.
And they have formed a giant army in this country.
I'm going to say this very, very clearly to everybody right now.
The Democratic Party and its affiliates and its supporters are globalists.
They are multinational minions.
They are the equivalent of enemy armies already in this country.
And that's why they want open borders.
And the leftist groups that the UN formed in Honduras and Guatemala by the hundreds of thousands,
waving their foreign flags, burning American flags, calling the president the Antichrist,
they are a leftist mob that says they are on a mission to take this country down.
So this is the reality of what we're facing.
And they want me off the air not because I'm inaccurate.
They want me off the air because I am accurate.
Eric Trump's wife made the point they're not trying to destroy my father because he's a loser.
They're trying to destroy my father when he's trying to do because he is a winner.
So that clip is coming up in the next segment as well.
But this is really do or die.
And the energy level in this country is so incredible and what's happening is so amazing.
And the destiny we're choosing right now is so epic and intense.
I just almost can't even be on air.
It's just the epic times we're in.
People overuse the term epic, but this is epic upon epic.
And there's either people becoming more awake or people becoming more sluggish and more unconscious.
And the amount of anti-human garbage going on is unprecedented.
China has been having human animal clones in the laboratory for 30 years.
That's admitted.
I talk about it, mainstream media makes jokes about it.
Now China is going to roll out on the market human clones.
China has cloned 20 different dog breeds.
Humans are next.
They're going to bring two term and they're going to sell them.
So that's being reported today by mainstream news.
That's all coming up.
So when we come back, I'm going to lay it all out as best I can.
I'm going to get really focused here.
And I'm going to go over the facts of what we face and the point we've reached.
But think about how far we've come together.
That we've got a president talking about nationalism versus globalism and human destiny versus tyranny.
The only thing he said that wasn't true.
Is that globalists care about the whole world, not their own nation state.
So globalists are multinational corporations that don't pay taxes.
They play authoritarian countries off against once free countries in their own white papers and admissions.
It is a 21st century corporate technocracy takeover in their own words.
It is pure evil.
Now, your financial support of this broadcast is just as critical as you spreading the articles, the videos.
You want to win, that's what you got to do and it's fun to do because it absolutely overrides the evil will of George Soros and others.
But the financial support is critical and we make it easy with great award-winning products, highest rated products, T-shirts, books, films, air filters, water filters, all the best systems and great supplements, free shipping store-wide,
50% off on all the supplements, 35% off on high quality, storeable food, but the specials have to end in the next few days.
It's Christmas, it's Black Friday, everything rolled into one.
They've been trying to shut us down so I need to get rid of a lot of our inventory we had going into Christmas.
But we have gotten extra payment processors by the glory of God and so now we're going to have to back up on these super specials.
But thank you all for the support, take advantage of them right now at infowarstore.com or AAA-253-3139, whatever you do, take action.
This event is the first of its kind ever.
John Boehner and an esteemed panel will reveal which cannabis stocks are primed to deliver life-changing windfalls in the weeks and months ahead.
Plus, they will show you how to become a cannabis angel investor backing the hottest startups before they potentially become worth billions of dollars.
To join American Cannabis Summit, text JOIN to 44055.
Attendance is free.
Text JOIN to 44055.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultrapurified krill oil, and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every day,
but thanks to SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive, to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality, so I want you to experience SupermailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail and use SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com.
We've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at Infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at InfowarsStore.com right now,
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you, despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrel's the global Spain win.
This is Infowars Darker Sour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on, or you will mind.
We're 14 days out. You can cut the suspense with a knife in the air.
And if you think things are positive, they are.
It's like, Grandpa has a heart attack and he gets defibrillated and he comes back to life, but he's still got heart problems.
See, countries aren't like people, they can be reborn, they can have true turning points.
And we're at a major political and cultural and spiritual realignment, a renewal, and the globalist forces that had pretty much conquered this nation to a great extent still have major beachheads in our culture, in our souls, in our minds, in our families, in our systems.
And they know that like the proverbial face sucker in Alien, they're being removed from our face.
And so they're getting very, very aggressive and very, very bullying, and they're censoring, and they're engaged in every form of authoritarianism, and they're using every excuse that authoritarians always use for their censorship, for their violence,
for their brutality, for their attempt to bankrupt their opposition, because they can't win the political and cultural argument.
So imagine President Trump says, I'm a nationalist, I believe in America, I believe in our country, and I believe we just can't have completely open borders,
and then let a bunch of people burning American flags, waving foreign flags, who rampaged over and beat up a bunch of police, march all the way up and into our country,
and then open up a lane for unlimited amounts of other people to come in.
And that's what happened last Thursday and Friday, the news, the enemy news, the globalist news was saying there were 200 people on the Guatemalan border with Mexico.
I mean, I could look at it and watch the hours of footage and tell you it was 50,000 if it wasn't 100,000.
It went on for miles and miles and miles and miles and miles and miles.
And I told you that the UN has other refugee centers already getting the next group ready.
And what is in the news right now that more migrant waves are coming up now that were already staged in Honduras and in Guatemala?
Of course, it's a UN operation.
They did the exact same thing starting six years ago in Europe.
I've been covering it here every day on air, six, seven days a week I'm on air.
We know every angle.
You know every angle of this.
You know, Louis Gohmert's up there going, well, maybe Soros is funding it.
And I like Louis Gohmert.
He's been on the show.
He's a great guy.
But man, we're on that daily.
Others, we've got all the articles, all the admissions with Soros and his open foundation and care and the Carnegie Endowment.
The Rockefeller Endowment.
It's all U.S. universities, professors and migrant studies down there running it, Gohmert.
The Mexican president elect.
Now the president said he would use this as a weapon to break the U.S.
Mexico's acting like they're against it.
What they sent 20 cops to stop 50,000 people and wonder why they got beat up so they could act like, okay, Trump, you're going to cut our funding.
Here, we'll send 50 cops when we can stop these people.
Mexico controls that border.
They've got over 10,000 troops just on the Guatemalan border.
Tanks, you name it.
They could have stopped it all.
They didn't.
Because the Mexican president, we wrote about it in July.
President-elect in Mexico says they're going to use migrant waves to break down the borders of the U.S.
This is our country under attack.
And the media always shows little kids and stuff that even the Mexican police estimate that they are 80% military aged men.
And they use the babies and people as shields.
And many of them are criminals, the lowest educated coming out of those countries.
That's the reality.
And then our president gets up there and says, really with a soft angle that, oh, globalism is about everybody and the whole world's good.
No, it's not.
It's about driving down wages, about mega corporations paying no taxes.
It's one thing Trump said yesterday that wasn't true.
And it's at war against nation states and middle classes and prosperity.
It's a vertical global integration of total power.
They call themselves technocrats at Davos.
They are allied with the Communist Chinese with their planned nightmare economy.
And America is under attack putting up a fight against this.
And we've only got a beachhead and most Americans are either on the fence or they don't think it's that serious.
And they're letting a powerful minority of mainly white, pseudo-intellectual, power tripping professors and government employees go out and race bait and ally with China and these traders.
All these people saying no borders, no walls, no USA at all, no USA at all.
You go to any Democrat group, even main language.
You bring up the USA's back, the economy's back, they get pissed.
No Trump, no wall, no USA at all, no Trump, no wall, no USA at all.
That's their goal.
They are conquering the nation.
And you're like, they're a bunch of idiots.
No, they've got the power behind them and us sitting there and putting up with it is going to allow our destruction.
You're being conquered right now.
So Trump declares himself a nationalist and they call it CNN's all brothers.
I can't believe he said that.
It's like, I can't believe they put mother and father on the entrance exams.
That hurts people that don't have mothers and fathers.
I can't believe he calls himself a boy.
What if someone doesn't see themselves as a boy?
They even breathe air too.
Oh my gosh.
And they said the sky was blue.
All this feigned garbage we're going to play coming up.
Trump declares himself a nationalist.
CNN says it's racist.
You got to go read this article.
That's Steve Watson.
He says globalist is codeword for Jews.
Oh yeah.
Trump's really anti-Semitic.
The president of the United States openly identifies himself as a nationalist.
Hulls for jailing of his political opponents.
No, he doesn't.
Attacks the press and calls these up with dictators while Republicans in Congress stand out of the way by this stake.
So this election could never be higher for democracy.
Robert Reich.
Everything he says what the Democrats are doing, they work for the foreign powers.
They're trying to censor.
They're trying to arrest their opponents.
That's why they could be arrested because they're actually authoritarians.
Okay, folks, I'm still stuck on Trump saying out loud at a rally tonight that he's a nationalist.
Let's not let this get lost in the chaos.
This is a big admission which should terrify us all.
They're terrified of America, of borders, of their own social security that all these illegals are going to drain.
They're nihilist.
What Trump did tonight is finally finish the rhetorical journey.
He acknowledged what he's been the whole time, a nationalist.
One of many in the world, he frames politics in transnational and deeply nationalistic terms,
focused on the perceived threats of his concept of a nation.
Robert Costa.
And it goes on.
Oh my gosh, this is just, oh, oh, oh, it's so bad.
Can you imagine?
In fact, let's play a clip here.
Here's Don Lemon, slams Trump for using the word nationalist, the word nation.
Mother, father, boy, girl, USA nation, God, country, Jesus.
These are all the things that trigger them.
And you go look at them.
They all look like a bunch of narcissistic mental patients.
But you know what?
They've conquered us.
Here's part of the clip.
Wow, I'm a nationalist, nationalist.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight.
It is a favorite of the alt-right and is loaded with nativists and racial undertones.
And globalists?
Well, globalists have been used as a slur of sorts, sometimes even against those in
the administration, often with anti-semitic overtones, which has happened to make the
president come right out and embrace nationalism openly and claim that mail.
What has happened here?
That's gaslighting, folks.
As the leftists at these demonstrations are these, look at them, they smile and laugh
like, like, I'm in junior high and feel bad.
I've been laughed at by the cool kids.
Like, can you believe Trump?
He says we're a nation.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative,
Info Wars Life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and
Omega-3's found in our high-quality, ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants, such as athazanthin and Omega-3's, Ultimate Crill Oil can help
you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain
cognitive function and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the
benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified, high-quality Crill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately, it's time to see what Crill Oil
can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil, now available at infowarsstore.com.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue.
Info Wars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with
every faucet, shower and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system.
The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration system
that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220 plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins
out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and
refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to
replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure
Whole House Filtration System today.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Years ago, InfoWarslife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal
yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had
to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula, a unique natural formula designed
to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms.
There's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive
tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, pal-darko-bark
and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time
as powerful micro balancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
If you want to see the 18 videos or more that were banned by Twitter yesterday, you can
just go to infowars.com.
Twitter goes nuclear bans to 18 info wars linked accounts.
Watch the forbidden content here.
See the videos Twitter wants to hide and share them to join the battle against censorship
and against the globalist because we of course had the videos saved on our phones that had
live streamed.
So the good part is a lot of them are in HD as well from the big epic, biggest Trump
rally ever if you don't count the inauguration that had a couple million people at it.
So that is very, very important.
That's on infowars.com.
That only gets out if you get it out.
They are fighting around the clock to stop not just us but others.
But this is on our platform and it's also on real.video.
And so a lot of these videos are getting hundreds of thousands of views because you're sharing
them and they've even been harassing real.video and harassing us and trying to figure out how
to shut that down and calling up and threatening Mike Adams employees.
They've had the mainstream media doing that.
So this claim that oh we're just banning you off our own corporate things is boulder dash.
It is a concerted global mafia attack.
I mean you've heard right that all 50s private or state run universities here in the United
States are getting government funding from China to basically push anti-Trump, anti-America,
anti-free speech agenda.
And it's also in the news that Canada has installed underwater Chinese monitoring devices outside
a U.S. sub base so the Canadian government is now in active warfare against the United
States.
I mean China is quarterbacking the entire enchilada.
And look I'm going to be honest with you.
I am so upset about what's going on and things are so charged and so epic and the decision
we're making right now is a culture so big that I almost can't be on air at this point.
I mean I do all this preparation and then I have to do all this research and then I get
so angry by the information and so disgusted that I just have trouble even talking at this point.
I can't believe there's so many traders and pieces of crap in this country that actively
have an inferiority complex with the Republic and a spiritual hatred of it and it's spiritual
because they will go out of their way to destroy this country and their own future because
they have some existential envy that they have to act out working with the worst, most
murderous, radical Islam, orthodox Islam, the chai comms, Junker and it's like Junker's
the heir to the top Nazis and has all the stolen wealth and Soros is and it's like it's
so crazy that everyone we're fighting are like super villains and their whole histories
are pure evil and then the good guys are under attack.
Let me explain something.
I don't feel sorry for myself being lied about and demonized.
I know I'm in a war and I feel good to see America waking up and coming back from the
dead to a certain extent but you know people should be way more active and way more aggressive
because this is serious folks.
This I mean we're fighting people as bad as Hitler and Stalin and Mao combined.
I mean they are really wicked and they are doing horrible things to our genetics.
They're doing horrible things to our environment.
The things the globalists are up to are so out of control and so bad it makes the head
spin and Trump's got to slowly introduce you to this.
He's got to slowly introduce the public.
I'm the test pilot.
I hit the barbed wire.
Trump comes in and then mainlines it and says it's okay to have a flag.
It's okay to say mother and father.
It's okay to have sovereignty.
It's okay to be successful.
It's okay to have a mother and father.
It's okay to love God.
And look we're a big crowd of people and we're together and we have solidarity and we're
of every race, color and creed and we love liberty and we're unified by our red blood.
And to those of us that are advanced patriots that are awake and informed and involved and
know what's going on we're like that's like baby talk but he's talking to a lot of babies
and he's mainlining Americana and common sense to them.
And so that's why what Trump's doing is so precious and I'm so thankful for it but then
I see how he's surrounded by a bunch of double dealers and cowards because he's having to
draw from people that are in the system to even know how to run things because the whole
system is in rebellion against him.
And it just makes me sad to see America in this position.
Again it's mixed feelings.
Good things are happening.
We're coming back from the dead but still it's so cut and dry that people fighting against
this country, people fighting against the reassertions of our republic are not Americans.
They're globalist.
They want to overthrow the country.
They're allied with the most murderous regimes in history and they know they're involved
in a conquering operation.
I have stacks of news here where it's military aged men 80% of them in the caravan calling
it an operation to break our border and to bring down the U.S.A. and they're part of
the very affiliated groups and universities that have the chant no borders, no walls,
no U.S.A. at all.
It's cut and it's dry.
And that's why it's an abomination when people come up to me on the street and say man how
are you taking it?
You must be down.
You must be depressed.
No, I'm ready for war.
I'm on fire to fight and pissed I can't figure out how to get more leverage to beat these
people.
That's how I feel.
Not like I'm getting my ass kicked but that I'm in a total war and I just can't swing
fast enough to take these people down politically.
I mean where are your instincts?
Where is your common sense?
And I know our audience is hardcore.
I'm not talking to you.
I'm talking to new listeners and sell out to the establishment.
But it's a spiritual thing.
And
misery loves company and these people are trying to destroy us and we have to stop laying
down to them.
We have to stop going along with the globalists and their minions and we have to stop trying
to placate them and be friends with them and sit here and play nice.
They're not playing nice.
They're a bunch of bullying evil jerks.
They now know that Info Wars has the spirit, the program, the code to relaunch it all.
And that's why they treat us like we're death because to them we are death.
To George Soros and to Hillary Clinton and to Barack Obama and to Lord Rothschild you
understand I'm the grim reaper come to their door.
I'm death.
And I am death.
And they know it.
I'm death of their system and you're death to them.
They really just love life but see to them we're death because if they can't suck off
our unborn, if they can't piss on our families and deface everything, the little horrible
demonic gremlins they are, it doesn't make them feel good.
Only when they're strangling innocents in some satanic basement, only when they're torturing
toddlers to death literally do they feel alive in their psychotic dream.
And I've interviewed the top psychiatrists that have interviewed the top serial killers.
It's like blazing white light when they're doing horrible things.
They're totally depressed and tortured when they're not because they're possessed.
And if we won't stand against these possessed people then we deserve to be enslaved by them
and God will hold us in judgment for allowing them to endanger the innocent and the children.
I tell you now, those of you that have stood idly by, your soul, your immortal soul is
on the line.
And if you don't stand for the unborn and if you don't stand for the innocent and if
you don't stand against these monsters, when you stand before God, God will say, I know
you not, you didn't do anything when the Holy Spirit touched you to fight these people
and you were of the devil.
So go back from which you came forever.
You are not amongst us.
You belong to death eternal.
We've got a bunch of Trump clips and a total proof of election fraud next hour and I'm
going to get focused and cover it all, please, please don't forget that if you don't support
this broadcast, we'll be shut down and we make it easy with the very best products.
And we've had a 50% off sale and free shipping, the biggest sale in our history and it has
got to end the next few days because we're selling out a lot of our best selling products
and because we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now, free shipping
store wide, 50% off on all the supplements, 35% off on the highest quality storeable foods
at infowarstore.com right now.
And you support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy, which infuriates
them.
You know how angry it makes the globalists that they've thrown everything they've got
at us.
And in many levels, we've just gotten stronger.
You know how scared they were of all those live videos of 90% of the Trump supporters
being huge info war supporters.
It scared them to death.
It's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
We were selling it for about three years and then they found out how big it was and how
much we were buying.
And they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient
that goes in next to it that literally is so pure that if you put in a peaker dish on
top of 90 degree hot plate, it gasses like I dream of genie and there's this purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it,
ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down.
I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done.
I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run.
There's Bible shield X2 and we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, infowarstore.com.
If you have experienced it, you know how great it is.
I suggest you stock up on it.
It's available right now for one at a time, infowarstore.com right now.
Our grandparents and great grandparents knew that they can't food during the fall, so they
have it during the winter.
And that's what I'm talking about at infowarstore.com, but infowar select, it's the full spectrum
of my patriots supply on the top, most respected companies out there.
But because I private label it, I'm able to go below cost on contracts that all their
other distributors aren't able to do.
But I want to be a market leader and I want you to have storeable food, so it's a total
win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back, infowarstore.com, on infowar select, storeable
foods, they've got special diet foods, they've got three month supplies, your supplies, weak
emergency supplies, they've got so many great products there, and you've got a three year
supply.
If stuff happens, you can feed your whole block.
It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
You're buying war bonds, bringing great products together with God's help, we are unstoppable.
It's infowarstore.com, infowar select, high-quality storeable foods, powered by my patriots supply.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
All right, I'm going to try to be a disciplined individual when we come back in the next segment
so I have more time, and I'm going to get into the magic wand statements of Obama and
how that's been countered by Trump, and we're also going to look at a story that's on DrudgeReport.com,
photos, numbers at Trump Rally, dwarf those at Obama event, and we're going to show you
how the mainstream media then comes in and zooms in with the camera from the front to
make it look like a bigger crowd, but then a back shot shows that it's not even a thousand
people, so that's up on infowar.com and newswar.com that just shows the fraud of what's going on.
But the first thing I want to get to when we come back is Van Jones and others saying
Trump's crazy, election fraud and voter fraud does not exist, and it's the same thing that's
confidence game they play, where they shit up there and look at everybody and say, isn't
it horrible?
He says we're a nation.
I've never heard something so hateful and weird and bizarre.
Next you'll say we breathe oxygen and that grass is green.
My God, the puppy dogs are sweet.
I've never heard.
It's insane.
He wore a blue sports blazer with a red tie.
Oh my God, that's crazy too.
He talked into a microphone.
Oh my Lord, that's so horrible.
I mean you think he was talking about child molestation or something, but they just sit
there and have Don, let me go, I'm just, I'm speechless, and when I go out and protest
these deranged leftists, they just look at me and they go, and it's like you're in junior
high and the cool kids are trying to make you feel like you're stupid and you're not
in the cool club.
You're sitting there eating your lunch real quick because you're about to skip the last
half of school that day with a bunch of high schoolers who are about to pick you up, but
you're hungry.
So I'm eating a chicken fried steak and the cool girls are sitting across and laughing
at me and saying, look how stupid he is.
They're really flirting with me and I figure out, oh, they're flirting with me, but I'm
dating high school girls.
See, I mean by like seventh or eighth grade, I had figured out that when people do that
and act confident and sit there and shake their head at you and laugh at you for no
reason, they're doing it because it gets a rise out of you.
And you watch Don Lemon and all these people, they use junior high level antics.
Since I mentioned it, let's play it again right now.
This is Don Lemon responding to the nationalists with this big pregnant pause like, whoa, uh,
what?
Did I just hear him say, we're a country?
Okay.
Oh my God.
Oh, whoa.
He just said this piece of paper is white.
I mean, seriously, he just said, this is cell phone in my hand.
Whoa.
Okay.
Okay.
All right, here's Don Lemon literally using junior high mind control on you, but I guess
it works on the idiots that watch CNN.
Wow, whoa, I'm a nationalist, nationalist.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight.
It is a favorite of the alt-right and is loaded with positive and racial.
Have you noticed, let's start it over.
Have you noticed how the left, these authoritarians are obsessed with destroying language, just
like Orwell said they were, he was the biggest leftist, highest levels, MI6, he was the highest
level.
And he was like, this is, you actually want to destroy language and make people dumb?
I'm out.
You're not really liberals.
You want Insoc and the dictionary gets smaller each year.
And so every year, it's new words they attack, globalists is anti-Semitic, nationalists is
mean and bad.
Shut up, you authoritarian dirtbag.
I don't mean literally shut up, like you want me to be silenced.
I'm saying, you're an idiot.
What trying to get into my mind?
Oh, I can't even look at him, Don Dickhead Lemon.
I mean, if anybody in this world is a dumb-ass dickhead, it's him.
God, what an un-American piece of felt.
InfoWarsLife and infowarslife.com is extremely excited to announce our latest release, Winter
Sun, a revolutionary type of vitamin D3.
Winter Sun is a premium quality vitamin D3 nutritional supplement.
It is produced by extracting oil from healthy nutrient dense plants known as lichens.
Every batch is analyzed for purity and D3 content.
It's completely free of toxins and allergens.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winter Sun is the result of our pursuit of the best source of vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years, but the result, as verified by independent
laboratories, is the best vegan vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winter Sun vitamin D3.
Not only does vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but vitamin D supports our memory and
brain function, something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide its
Alex Jones.
Well, the globalists had this country in a trance, allied with the Chai comms, the
unelected EU, and the scumbags in Hollywood.
This religion is hating America.
But now the planet is awakening.
And the good news is, we're seeing nationalists take office or win office from Asia to Latin
America to Eastern Europe to Western Europe to right here in the good old U.S. of A to
the U.K.
Just like they did two years ago, oh, the Democrats are going to win, oh, the polls
show, they're all way ahead.
Same garbage out of the same big old ugly globalist buttfaces.
And same crap just and also same orifice.
And I have a big repertoire of language, but you've got to describe them pretty much for
what they are sometime.
I'm sorry.
So they're all freaking out that Trump says he's a nationalist and believes that America
exists, and that's a new dirty word that's got to be banned, Don Lemon is attacking it
as anti-Semitic.
That's coming up.
But then you've got a problem.
The leftist that they brainwash in these UN camps out of Central America are burning
American flags, saying they're going to militarily conquer America, saying they're on a mission
to bring communism to America, saying that Trump is the anti-Christ.
And people are seeing this, and they're seeing this crazy echo chamber.
And I think this could be even a bigger game changer in this election.
The problem is everybody I know is getting in the mail absentee ballots in dead people's
names, and many of them are filled out in Spanish, and it is a big, big problem.
So what are we going to do?
And Trump has been pointing all of this out, and he's been doing the best job that he can.
But what do we do if they steal the House?
What do we do if they are able to steal the Senate?
That's a question that we have to ask ourselves 14 days out right now, but I want to go to
a clip here from the good old Van Jones who ran the department under Obama that's still
operating, that's creating a racial division in the country and interfacing with the corporate
media.
But in just a moment, after we play this clip, I'm going to show you the proof that's flooding
out that they're using illegal aliens to vote and homeless people to vote and just democratic
operatives to vote in the identity of dead people and people in nursing homes.
But they're already telling you having a country's a dirty word or not wanting unelected globalism
is bad, anti-Semitic.
And so now they're telling you that the Democrats aren't publicly trying to register illegal
aliens to vote, which they're publicly doing.
And again, this is all like a confidence game where they sit up there and say, nation states
are dirty and bad.
How dare you even talk about them?
And we're all supposed to bow down and apologize.
And then now there's no such thing as election fraud, and they just talk to us like we're
zombies in a cult or something.
But when you look at the average Democrat, that's who they are.
So here he is.
Van Jones.
I think in places like California, the same person votes many times.
You probably heard about that.
They always like to say, oh, that's a conspiracy theory, not a conspiracy theory, folks.
Millions and millions of people, and it's very hard because the state guards their records.
They don't want to see it.
All right, Van Jones, final response from you.
It's a lie.
It's just a lie.
It's not true.
That's not me.
First of all, I've been working to get people to vote my whole life.
If I could get people to vote one time, I would be so happy.
Who are all these people they can find that would vote multiple, multiple times?
I'm begging people to vote once.
It's a lie.
It's a complete smear.
It's not true, and it doesn't deserve defense.
Could I play all the newscasts of people indicted and convicted in 2016 and 2018 and indicted?
Hell, they caught people in Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, San Antonio going in and voting hundreds
of times with absentee ballots, filling it out in the same handwriting, dead people's
names, people in nursing homes being voted for.
Look at it right here.
Those Democrats asked non-citizens to register to vote, Washington Times, and it shows them
officially doing it and the Attorney General investigating and mailing it to illegal aliens'
houses with databases they've got voting.
There's another one.
Busted, voter fraud ring discovered in Texas, and it's a whole newscast, KTVT news with
all the fake signatures in the ring, and who was doing it in Battleground, Texas.
Large bars, New Hampshire, proof of residency requirement for new voters.
That's right.
Don't need proof of registry.
Don't need proof you live there.
Don't need proof you're a citizen.
That's what Democrats do.
Voter registration applications sent the Dallas woman who died 29 years ago.
That's CBS DFW, Dallas, Fort Worth.
Folks, I'm going to explain something very, very slowly here, Jim.
Very, very slowly.
This is one out of 10,000 that actually where the people get mailed is they call the news.
If you get crap like this, you have to call the news.
People in this office have gotten early voter registration stuff.
People that work here, people that come on the air, Joel Gilbert got mailed it.
It was filled out in Spanish, and citizen was checked off with some person's name.
To him, they're just bombing everyone with it, because they know conservatives aren't
going to fill out some fake form, but you get the leftist, do you think deranged leftists
would do that?
Again, new birdies flying in the sky.
LA mayor, blames DC for 50% increase in homelessness.
I thought you opened your borders up and you blame those of us that have been pointing
it out.
So that's just some of the news we've got on that front, and so Van Jones can sit there
with this fake consensus.
That's why on MSNBC and CNN, they'll have something like six, seven people on a panel
when they go, Trump says nationalism, they'll go, hmm, Trump says, make America greater
again.
It's a fake consensus, like, like you're three years old, like, do you want to stick your
finger in the light socket?
Oh, do you want to eat out of the dog bowl?
Yucky.
Like you're talking to an 18-month-old, and we got a dog bowl, or cat bowl, sometimes
if the cat hasn't eaten all of it, my parents house the dog bowl, and my daughter goes over
and I go, we go, yucky, and she learned, we told her what's tasty and what's yucky,
and she listens.
Girls, they say a little bit better, I guess, when they're younger than boys are.
But the point is, is the boy will go right after it usually, if you say no, but yucky,
and then they learn, you know, stay away from the light sockets, they're covered anyways.
But not Van Jones, he's like, no one vote illegal, never happened, there's only been
tens of thousands of convictions, and they all go, does not exist, you're just supposed
to believe it, and they talk to you like you're an animal.
And the globalists, you see, they think you're so stupid, that they thought our show was
too cerebral, that people wouldn't get it, or they wouldn't understand it.
Because they believe the medium is the message.
So they believe it's a feedback loop.
They believe that they give you the most dumb-down, lying, pathetic message on earth, that somehow
that will lower you, so Van Jones and these other psychic vampires could sit up there
and look down on you and feel powerful.
In fact, let's go out with Don Lemon right now, this is Don Lemon acting like nationalism
is farting in church.
Oh my gosh, wow, wow.
I'm a nationalist, nationalist.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight, it is a favorite of the alt-right and is loaded
with nativists and racial undertones.
And globalists, well, globalists, have been used as a slur of sorts, sometimes even against
those in the administration, often with anti-Semitic.
By the way, all the UN does is enslave you.
Which just happened to make the president come right out.
It's the nation states to pay for everything.
We'll be right back, folks, state withers.
When we come back, Obama had a pathetically small crowd.
The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of
the world.
George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken.
Its former colony, the U.S., had to save the empire.
Was there ever a vote?
Who do we fight for?
The deep state began with World War I, the United States of Empire, by James Dunne, available
at Amazon Books.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching
TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
In these uncertain times, it makes sense to have a sustainable backup method to cook
food and boil water.
If your current plan includes using a fuel-burning stove or cooking over an open fire, then there's
a much better way.
The Minuteman Rocket Stove is a biomass-burning cooking stove that only requires small quantities
of sticks and twigs for fuel.
The Minuteman Stove is easy to use, smokeless, portable, powerful, and sustainable.
For the finest in survival cooking stoves and fire starters made right here in the USA,
go to Minuteman Stove.com.
That's Minuteman Stove.com.
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and
sown American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road, Diamond Gusset
Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com.
That's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're
listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas.
We've ever offered with even better ingredients, ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your
limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power
of ultra-high-quality bone broth, one of the most popular health products on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth
will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting
your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric
root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support
your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt
justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future and we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and
why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us and if you spread
the word about our articles and videos at InfoWars.com, we won't just continue to stand
up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at InfoWarsStore.com right now, and we're still able to operate the shopping
cart and get stuff shipped out to you, despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce,
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros the Global is going to win.
This is InfoWars Darker Tower.
We're your support.
I'm counting on you.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The boys tell how far Joe fell, and left his living in a cheap hotel, but there was quiet
Cleveland's poor, and so the story ends, we're told.
I don't need your prayers, it's true, we'll save a few if we left it to.
We only did what it had to do.
We are back live broadcasting worldwide.
I want to be a trillion percent clear about this.
I'm not on a power trip.
Going to that Trump rally yesterday, the first time, because I don't like attention.
I knew it would happen, but I had no idea how wild it'd be, and I'm talking.
Nine out of ten people stopped me without me even talking or anything.
I was trying to get certain places, and I couldn't go anywhere because yelling, screaming, mobs
of people running at me, giving me hugs, you name it, men, women, old, young.
It was crazy, and it buoyed my heart to know that we did launch the Restoration of America,
but now we're under massive attack, and if I don't announce how important we are, and
how important our work's been, they will destroy us, and then we won't be there to fight in the future.
I want nothing better to bring balance back, and to back the globalist off, and to stabilize the country.
We'll still have problems, but to not be in this war, and I would retire right now, man.
I've been doing this 23 years, and I'm so obsessed with it that you're either totally committed,
or you are, you're either totally committed, or you are out of the game, and I eat, drink, sleep, this stuff.
I got home at midnight last night from Houston.
We drove down there and drove back, and I dreamed all night about Trump,
and about the Capitol, and about the Trump rally, and about the left, and about the globalist,
and just, it was all super vivid, super intense, and I just, I'm just saying, I can't, it's just everything now.
And so when we get censored and banned on 18 sub accounts on Twitter yesterday, and all the lies and disinfo out there in the media,
it doesn't make me think, oh, I'm being defeated, I'm being attacked.
It makes me think, my God, when does America wake up? When does Congress do something?
You know, we talked yesterday off record to the head of the Trump campaign, and if you can't say something,
I don't say anything at all, as what Grandma always said, but we can't sit there and get pissed off about there being people around the president
that are just enjoying being part of the power structure.
We have to be the people that move the ball down the field and know that the president's on fire, and that's why he's under attack.
And, you know, here's the thing.
I've got all these news articles, and all these things I should be covering on air right now.
But for me, it really just goes back to how screwed up it is that we have people actively that want to get rid of our nation,
get rid of our borders, get rid of our country, and who literally hate our success and who are just really bad people.
And it should be much easier to say, I don't want to be communist China or Soviet Russia or socialist Venezuela.
I don't want to have America one big anti-free speech authoritarian control freak pedophile Berkeley.
I mean, the left really are a bunch of demons.
And at the end of the day, more and more, I don't even think that things are a political solution.
It really is a spiritual solution.
And we really are just dealing with a bunch of demon-possessed garbage who we have been so nice to and put up with an appeased and appeased and appeased
that now they say we can't say nationalist, we can't say mother and father, capitalism's bad, you people are scum.
And I don't care what you say about me. I don't care what you do to me anymore.
I will not bow down to you.
And when I have that spirit, I feel closer to God.
The idea of them winning, the idea of giving into them is torture for me.
And I'm just frustrated up here wondering, what do I do? How do I take action?
I mean, we showed all the proof of Democrats having illegal aliens and others vote in the names of dead people and all the arrests that are happening.
And then Van Jones is on CNN saying there is no voter fraud.
It does not exist when we have all the hidden camera videos of his group and other people's groups engaged in all sorts of horrible activity
and all the Democrat groups saying we bust in people to vote 10 times a piece.
We bring in homeless people and illegal aliens and it's the head Democrats in New Jersey and New York and in Illinois all committing crime
and none of them got their fat asses thrown in present.
And that's why all this scum is so damn arrogant.
Because they have been getting away with things forever.
So I'm going to control myself because I wanted to open the phones up and have a special guest next hour.
And I wanted to have you respond to what's happening, everything that's going on.
It's just no decision.
There's not even a decision.
Why would anyone be with these people?
Why would anyone want to be associated with them?
Why would anyone?
You go to Democrat events.
I don't feel powerful that they look like mental patients.
Let me tell you something.
If I was a director making a movie about a mental institution, all I had to do was not pay some casting company millions of dollars for casting.
It cost millions of dollars.
I would go down to a Democrat party event and every one of them looks crazier than people you ever saw in the state hospital.
I mean, these are crazy people.
See, I'm not covering news because there's too much news.
It's not, there's not enough.
I mean, this is all just insane.
Everything I've got here is just, it's all on infowars.com.
It's all on newswars.com.
And I haven't even gotten into Trump finally got caught using the N word.
We're going to play a video when we come back in the next segment.
It's very, very sad moment.
I know you had to, your heart jumping, your throat there.
Yeah, no, it's, we've got him using the N word folks.
And I'm going to say that I support the president using the N word.
Now, the media will edit that and put that out deceptively.
It doesn't matter.
They're the ones that are deceptive.
When you come back, you'll see what in work.
Because again, it's not about being emotional.
It's not about being mindless.
It's about executing.
And I have to be the same way.
And I haven't gotten into Obama and like a thousand people at his crowd.
Now they try to edit the video.
We'll get to that.
And then I'll get to the Chinese military working with the kind of Canada to put anti-submarine
devices right off our waters.
I mean, it's just, it's all unbelievable.
But I'll tell you this, I really am most frustrated that we're all going to have to go through
the pain that's coming when it could have been so easy to avoid all this.
But I think really my frustration is it's clear.
The world has cancer.
It's called the left.
And they're not going to go away without a fight.
And they take our morality and our kindness as weakness.
And the frustration is crushing them has no victory in it because they were already crushed.
We're fighting soulless husk.
All right.
Stay with us.
You know, they are trying to sense the broadcast.
So whatever you do, don't share the links.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gussett, Gene Company.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
This is infowarslife.com.
We've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality
atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWarsLife.com or triple-A-2-5-3-3-1-3-9.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with
Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are.
And they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us so we need your support.
So go to infowarslife.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you.
SuperMailVitality.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, listeners, viewers, InfoWars family, I've got some really bad
news for everybody.
We've been hearing for three years that there is a rumored inward tape of President
Trump using the N-word.
World Exclusive right now, we have the video, not just the audio, because they can fake
audio.
Video is a little bit harder.
We have the World Exclusive and it's with a rejoiceful heart that I give you this video.
You're very proud that Trump used the N-word and CNN and MSNBC and others are trying to
spin that it's a bad thing.
But ladies and gentlemen, they're waging war on language.
They're waging war on borders.
They're waging war on sovereignty.
And so once they get one word banned, they start banning them all.
So Dr. Laura Schlesinger got banned off TV and radio for using an N-word.
And now the media is moving on to other N-words, N-words that I support.
I don't support the one she used.
I think she has the right to use it, but she walks into a trap.
But Trump used an N-word that's a good N-word.
Here it is from last night.
A globalist is a person that wants the globe to do well, frankly, not caring about our
country so much.
And you know what?
We can't have that.
You know, they have a word.
It sort of became old fashioned.
It's called a nationalist.
And I say, really, we're not supposed to use that word.
You know what I am?
I'm a nationalist, okay?
I'm a nationalist.
Wow, the N-word.
Do you believe they used it?
National.
Nothing.
Use that word.
Use that word.
Oh, even worse, they're chanting the N-word over and over again.
U.S.A.
So I'm being tongue-in-cheek here, except for the fact I'm not.
Don Lemon, CNN, MSNBC, all the channels are just breathless.
There's an article on M4Words.com.
You've got to see it.
Trump declares himself a nationalist.
CNN says it's racist.
That's right.
So they're now saying it is the N-word.
And that globalism is anti-Semitic.
And like I said earlier, Don, the dumbass Lemon sits there and pauses after he plays the Trump
clip you just saw.
And then, wow.
Man, did you hear that racism and anti-seminitism?
Did you hear that?
So he's actually saying it's like the other N-word.
It sounds like the country, Niger or Nigeria, but isn't.
That they first got banned.
And then now, oh, mother, father, boy, girl, those are all a nationalist.
You can see the war on language right out of 1984 is getting crazy.
And I've already played this, Don Lemon, but it's so ridiculous.
Here he is with the pregnant pause acting like Trump just endorsed HBO and
salon and vice magazines or vice TV's promotion of pedophilia.
But he didn't endorse pedophilia.
He just said we're a country.
And I got to correct the president.
He rarely says something with his patently false, but he was trying to be nice.
Just don't be nice, sir.
Globalism is a multinational system of the Fortune 100 set up by David Rockefeller
and others publicly to set up a global technocracy.
That means an authoritarianism, the technological leap over the nation state
where their tax exempt.
So globalism is not for the good of the world.
And even the Financial Times of London says globalism has broken the rules.
It's oppressive.
People hate it.
Elon Musk said, I'm nauseatingly pro-American.
I would have come here from any country.
The U.S. is where great things are possible.
Well, that's more N-word behavior than Elon Musk.
So let's go to Don the Dum-Dum Lemon.
Here it is.
I'm sorry.
Wow.
Wow.
Whoa.
I'm a nationalist.
We're a country.
Wow.
Nationalist.
Wow.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight.
It is a favorite of the alt-right.
Pause again.
We're going to talk about that word.
Another word we want to get rid of here in the Thought Police.
Continue.
Globalists and racial undertones.
And globalists?
Well, globalists have been used as a slur of sorts.
Sometimes even against those in the administration,
often with anti-Semitic overtones,
which has happened to make the president come right out
and embrace nationalism openly.
And claim that now.
What is happening?
Openly.
Next, you'll embrace breathing oxygen.
So the article's on m4wars.com.
But oh, why do all these other folks waving their Honduran
and their Guatemalan and their Venezuelan flags,
burning American flags, saying Trump's the anti-Christ,
led by the UN, led by the Annenberg Foundation,
the Ford Foundation.
They're all running around super angry at us.
They're not getting rid of their country.
So that's okay to wave their foreign flags.
Networks cheer migrant carifian, quote,
defying the president undeterred in their mission.
They're almost all military age men.
Fox News, about 80% of migrant caravan are men under age of 35,
say Mexican police.
MS-13 gang members amongst migrant caravan.
Folks that have already been deported m4wars.com.
Paul Joseph Watson.
Lily Garment, perhaps Soros is funding caravan.
Perhaps Bears go to the bathroom in the woods.
It's on record who's funding it.
We have articles with links to the sites and groups bragging.
But the groups have governmental power and treaties through the UN.
That's why Trump has to pull us out of the UN.
Trump thousands said as many trips as necessary
to keep growing migrant caravan out as a new caravan joins it.
It's now over 20,000.
Remember, I told you it wasn't 200 on Friday.
I told you it was 50,000.
Now the media is telling you 20,000.
It was 14,000 last night.
Folks, it's hundreds of thousands.
They're going to break that border completely.
They did the same thing to Europe six years ago.
Migrant declares that Donald Trump is the antichrist as a caravan grows.
40,000 people.
Trump declares national emergency.
You better believe it is.
So that's just some of the news on that.
Migrant caravan could prompt a water competition between Mexico and U.S.
Yeah, their president admitted three months ago he's actually helping set it up.
A second migrant caravan is headed to the U.S.
Following the first, who told you that?
I've been telling you that for months.
It's all a plan.
They follow an exact scenario.
The good news is China tried to plunge our stock market today,
but the plunge protection team got in there
and blocked the Federal Reserve and the rest of it for now
so that they can't plunge the market ahead of the midterms
just like they did the same week, two weeks before in 2008
to make sure Barack Obama got elected.
And they're trying the exact same garbage yet again, aren't they?
Now, I've been talking about it all day.
And when we come back, photos, numbers at Trump rally,
dwarf those at Obama event, Paul Joseph Watson,
it's also on dredgerport.com.
And we're going to look at that versus Democrat claims
they're about to win the House and maybe even the Senate.
So evidence of that fraud coming up.
Please, whatever you do realize,
they were all getting punched drunk to the censorship.
And you saw 18 Twitter accounts, they say affiliated with InfoWars.
Yes, some of them are like little side accounts
they know we had like InfoWars store that just showed our products.
I had almost no retweets, no traffic,
but they just banned them all yesterday
in punishment that I be at a Trump rally
and be mobbed by all these folks that loved us.
So those videos exclusively coming up next hour that are censored,
they're also now posted to InfoWars.com.
And then finally, your excitement about America,
your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country
and the world back from the brink.
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from
so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate,
not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that.
And I've been told that's going to happen.
But you've got to back us and I promise you this.
I will give the total sacrifice.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at the spiritual level.
I physically will.
I give you my commitment if you financially support us
at InfoWars.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
Just like our information is game-changing,
our products are game-changing.
And Survival Still X2 is the pure I and I.
No one else has this from deep earth,
crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get into the good halogens.
But instead, they hammer you with the bad halogens,
fluoride, chlorine, bromine,
that literally fog you, fill all your cells,
thyroid, you name it.
Myotrysilinium goes with it like a horse of carriage.
Silinium is an electrochemical.
It's needed as well in all activity in the body,
particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together.
We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself.
Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff.
Filter your water.
Yeah, I find myself some water filters.
Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run,
I think it'll be six months a year until we get more.
I hope we get more.
This is the last run it looks like.
Survival for X2.
InfoWars.com or infowarslife.com
or infowarslife.com
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWarslife's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality,
organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
This is the last run it looks like.
This is the last run it looks like.
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
it's time to see what krill oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil,
now available at infowarsstore.com.
Stress is a natural part of life where family, friends, and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down.
Happies is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's daily inconveniences,
made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years.
Happies can help you take back the day.
With our powerhouse formula, Happies can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
Happies helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today,
with Happies from infowarsstore.com.
It's Alex Jones.
Well, the Democrats are trying to behave and act like they're going to win the midterms,
and they are spinning their normal disinformation in fake polls,
but a lot of evidence is mounting that they're going to lose even more seats in the house,
and maybe even some seats in the Senate, but they're putting on a confidence game
so that their desperate loser supporters feel like they can be part of a big win,
but if they think they're going to lose, they won't go vote. It's a true loser mentality.
But here's some of the headlines we're going to be dealing with.
Google, Facebook, and Twitter staff splurge on Democrats ahead of midterms.
They also splurge on massive hysterical censorship of anyone right of Mao Zedong.
But here's a big story up on drudgereport.com.
Photos, number at Trump rally, dwarf those at Obama event.
Let's pull that up in HD for TV viewers, all the scrabbits are radio listeners.
20,000 people capacity at the Toyota Center, at least 50,000 outside,
100,000 tickets that people claimed. A lot of folks were coming and going,
but I mean, I saw at least 70,000 people there at once.
They reported yesterday that Donald Trump is very unpopular with foreign nations.
He's one of the most unpopular presidents in the history of polling.
And I said, no. I said, of course I'm unpopular with foreign nations
because we're not letting them rip us off anymore, folks.
They meant it to be bad.
When the fake news, they meant it to be bad.
Donald Trump very unpopular with other nations.
And you know what I had? It was 70% against and 30% for.
I said, who is the 30%? Why would they ever want to vote for him?
Because honestly, we're treating everybody good.
We're helping people. We're protecting people.
But you know, when we protect with our military, the greatest in the world,
and now it's a lot better than it's ever been because of what we're doing,
we have to be reimbursed for that protection.
Okay, so let's stop right there.
There is the capacity crowd, 20,000 inside, 50,000 or more outside.
I was there.
And then now let's look at Obama.
First, they did a front shot with a tiny crowd of politicos all huddled together
in front of him to make it look big.
And then we're going to show you the back shot.
Go ahead and go to it.
So there you have them with tight shots on it.
This looks like a smaller crowd than you'd have for seventh grade for a girls basketball game.
But National News shows you a front shot all cropped in to make it look like it's a big crowd.
We all know those tricks.
When Trump does these rallies, they would zoom in and he'd say, back those cameras up, show it.
And because he was able to expose the fact they were doing that,
it blew up in their face.
So very, very exciting to see that unfolding.
But let's get into some of these other articles.
Bernie Burnout, Sanders rally crowds down 90% from 2016.
I'd say that's being optimistic.
You look at the photos in the article in infowars.com, I mean, they have it in a college lecture hall
that looks like maybe 60 people.
You can go watch the video.
It's on infowars.com.
They do pull out there.
And it's maybe 60 people like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
You count it up, maybe 60, maybe 70 people.
But that it.
But don't worry, Google, Facebook and Twitter staff splurge on Democrats ahead of midterms.
And George Soros has just spent another 80 plus million dollars.
That's our number.
This is 78 million on ballot initiatives.
Not counting all the other money you're spending just on general elections.
That's out of newsbusters.
But it's okay.
They're not just splurging on getting ballot initiatives or running candidates or spending all this money.
They also got 18 more accounts linked to Alex Jones' band because we dare go to the Trump rally
and show the Love Fest.
But we're going to be showing that next hour in detail in some of these amazing interviews.
Because they are powerful.
We have another guest, though, joining us who'll write a shot done with us as well, Ricky Berwick.
I love the intensity of his videos.
He's got millions of subscribers on YouTube.
And, importantly, he's got the courage, unlike the other cucks, to come on The Big Evil Show,
where he might then get punished for doing that.
In fact, let's play some audio of him from like a year ago talking about CNN doxing people
that dared make joke memes about CNN and Trump body slamming.
And here it is.
The video shared by President Trump to his 33 million personal Twitter followers,
and then to 19 million more on his presidential account was apparently first posted by a Reddit user
who goes by this online name and who has also laid claim to it.
That user of Reddit's online message board reacted enthusiastically.
Wow, I never expected my meme to be retweeted by the God Emperor himself.
I am honored, but others are worried, including the Anti-Defamation League,
which surveyed the user's post and found a consistent record of racism, anti-Semitism, and bigotry.
This individual traffics an online hatred, and at times, violent rhetoric.
And the ADL seems to call out the president saying,
when those on the fringes of society feel their messaging is getting mainstream attention, that should...
Oh, CNN, you really messed up this time.
What a bunch of black male bitches and fake news.
CNN, that guy that made that meme, he's not the one that's supposed to be apologizing.
It's you with your fake news and your blackmailing habits.
If you don't stop, I will make you stop with my tongue.
And trust me, that's worse than any weapon.
So CNN, please stop, okay?
And I apologize.
Wow, that guy could be a big star in Hollywood.
Pretty funny guy.
He's going to be joining us coming up the next hour, and I'll open the phones up some too,
and then we'll get to the news I have not covered yet.
California company that hires protesters is accused of extortion.
Paid protesters are real, but I thought they don't exist.
I mean, I've said sometimes they stage events with protesters.
A lot of antifar paid and hired.
And then they then go, Jones says no one died at Parkland.
No, I didn't say that.
I talked about other cases.
So, but now it's in the Sacramento Bee.
So things aren't going too well in globalist land.
Here's another one.
Mike Pitts, Honduran president told me Venezuela funding migrant caravan.
Well, yeah, I told you that a few months ago.
Tomorrow's news today.
It's a group actually out of Berkeley working with the government down there to do this.
So yes, this is a military attack.
Coordinated globalist communist operation across our borders and flood us with these folks that have been living under the communism.
And they want to come here and bring us the communism and burn American flags.
So that is coming up next hour as well.
Whatever you do, please tell your neighbors, your friends, your family, your community constantly.
This is the censored show.
This is the show rebiting America.
They want to shut it down.
Don't let them do it info wars.com forward slash show.
We're in your hands.
If you don't spread the word about info wars, if you don't spread the word about news wars.com.
If you don't get the great Patriot t-shirts with all the beautiful designs.
If you don't get the water filtration and air filtration, that's the best out there.
Very low prices.
If you don't get the great supplements, we won't be here.
It's up to you and you've been responding.
You've been supporting.
So I want to thank you.
But you're also getting really great products like X2, the last run of it.
Secret 12, amazing vitamin B12, the highest quality, the brain force plus now 20% more.
It's all 50% off at info wars store.com and free shipping.
But it's got to end by this weekend because so many of the great products are running low.
Like knockout, the great sleep aid, like ultimate bone broth formula.
Nobody can get it at that price.
But you are the folks that have stood with us.
So it's a 361 win at info wars store.com or triple A 253-3139.
Please take action.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing Z Shield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world
that Patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires to the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with Z Shield at infowarslife.com.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarslife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health friends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles,
digestion, tendons and ligaments while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all new version of a fan favorite product today at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Rallying Patriots Worldwide in defense of human liberty.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live worldwide.
There's a headline on DrudgeReport.com.
You've got Nat Silver says 86% dims take the house.
Where did I hear that before?
I remember two weeks before the election two years ago or 21 months and two weeks ago,
that they said that it was absolutely impossible that Hillary could lose.
They'd pre-printed Newsweek, Madam President.
It was a 98, 97% chance that she was going to be the president.
Remember all those New York Times headlines?
It was 98% about a month before.
And then it was like 97% about a week before.
And then it was 86% the day of.
And then that night, right before they announced that Trump had won, it went to 50-50.
Just type into a search engine and click images is how you'll find this because they've tried to hide it.
Hillary Clinton has a 90% chance to win.
Yeah, that's some other bird case-lining media.
Just type into a search engine.
New York Times, Hillary has 97% chance of winning.
Just NYC or NYT, Hillary has a 97% chance to win as a number.
And then you hit images and you will see this is on the front page of the New York Times.
And my wife on her iPad every morning would be eating breakfast with me and she likes the New York Times.
She doesn't like their politics, but she likes to read it because some of their articles are good.
It's not political.
And she'd say, honey, you say Trump's going to win, but look, 97%.
They had it right on the front page that our analytics and our scientific system shows us.
And I said, honey, a big corrupt kingpin named Carlos Slim owns it.
And he's always saying whatever he wants to say through the paper he owns, it's a total fraud.
The New York Times is the definition of deceit and evil.
And I said, you watch Trump win.
And then she saw Trump win.
But everyone remembers that, you know, they tried to memory hold it, I'll find it during the next break.
But they were everywhere saying that.
You know, there's a New York Times saying 85%.
And there's another one saying 93%.
But I remember for a month it said 97 or 98.
And we did whole shows on it.
You can't go to my Twitter where we tweeted it out because that's all deleted.
You can't go to my YouTube where it says that's all deleted.
And that's why they want us to delete it, not because we're wrong, but because we're right.
And they don't want people to remember what we said and remember what we did.
Yeah, there's one of the independent survey finds.
Print me that one, please.
Hillary Clinton has more than 99% chance of winning election over Donald Trump.
That's the Princeton election.
Constatorium found that Miss Clinton has a projected 312 electoral votes across the country and only 270 are needed to win.
And so she has a 99% chance of winning.
So I remember the New York Times saying 98, but I guess at one point other groups were saying 99.
The point is you all remember, you have that thing called a memory.
Remember back when the Internet was still free in Europe five years ago and they got rid of it.
Now they're getting rid of it here.
See, it's happening to you right now.
You're having your birthright stolen.
And because these dictators know you're awake, they're trying to take it all from you straight ahead.
Oh, and we come back.
Ricky Merwick on Twitter for now at Ricky Merwick and on YouTube at Ricky Merwick.
He's coming up straight ahead, ladies and gentlemen.
Will the censors eternally eat out his liver as well?
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
Leftist CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground.
And I knew we had no future.
We didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, m4s.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scum bags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales, m4s.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros and Glove will swing win.
This is M4s Darker Tower.
We're your support.
I'm counting on you.
They don't want to get me off the air because I'm a loser.
They want to get me off the air because I'm a winner.
And I sat there live watching in Houston yesterday when Eric Trump's wife, Laura Trump, broke it all down.
Here it is.
It must be the magic wand, right?
You must have the magic wand we heard about before.
I think that's it.
You know, I want you to keep something in mind.
I know we all see the negative press out there.
We all see everybody throwing stuff at Donald Trump.
But I've got something I want you to keep in mind.
They won't try and stop a loser, ladies and gentlemen, but they will try and stop a winner.
And Donald Trump is winning for this country again.
See, people say, Alex, how are you taking it and censor getting attacked?
I was there yesterday.
The first Trump rally I've gone to is I don't want to cause a disturbance.
90% of the people were rabid supporters.
God bless you.
It was amazing.
Some clips are coming up at the end of the hour and we'll post them in hdm4wars.com.
Only place you can see them, they're banned everywhere else because they don't try to stop a loser.
They try to stop a winner.
We're going to our amazing guests here in a moment.
But where did I hear of magic wands before and they hate us rubbing this in?
Here it is.
Some of those jobs of the past are just not going to come back.
And when somebody says, like the person you just mentioned who I'm not going to advertise for,
that he's going to bring all these jobs back.
Well, how exactly are you going to do that?
What are you going to do?
There's no answer to it.
He just says, well, I'm going to negotiate a better deal.
Well, how exactly are you going to negotiate that?
What magic wand do you have?
And usually the answer is you don't have an answer.
So he said, I'm not going to advertise for that guy.
Well, now two and a half years later, the circle is now complete because Trump says I'm not going to advertise for him and say his name.
But I do have a magic wand.
No, it's called Americana.
China's had 10% growth rates.
We used to have those.
They killed it.
They did it on purpose.
They told a bunch of bleeding heart Americans, oh, you've got half the wealth, you're 4% of the population.
Share it with the world.
They meant multinational corporations that don't pay taxes.
Who then create poverty to control people.
So here's President Trump knocking it out of the park last night.
In less than two years time, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps.
They said that was impossible.
We've added 600,000 new manufacturing jobs.
Remember the previous administration.
I won't be specific, but let's say the head of the previous administration.
Does anybody know who I'm talking about?
Remember he said you can't have manufacturing jobs in this country.
You need a magic wand, remember the famous.
Well, I guess we found the magic wand.
Best jobs there were.
It's called Goodwill, Common Sense.
It's up on infowars.com.
It's up on drugreport.com.
Obama had less than a thousand people at his rally.
Trump, 20,000 inside, 50,000, 70,000 outside, I was there.
People came and hung on an hour they left.
Is Drudge bad to have the headline up from a major polling company saying 87% chance that Democrats retake House?
No, because that's what the left's putting out.
And that's who they're polling and they could win if you don't go out to polls.
86%.
But it's pure balderdash.
It's like the New York Times saying 98% chance Hillary would win.
It was bull.
Now joining us for the hour riding shotgun, I want to come back on.
Ricky Burwick is really interesting and really entertaining and really funny, very passionate fellow.
He's a 26-year-old from Ontario, Canada.
He's a social media personality, internet entertainer.
Best known for his video skills and commentary on YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.
With 1.2 million YouTube subscribers, he described himself as you're not so normal video entertainer.
And he's YouTube at Ricky Burwick, Twitter at Ricky Burwick.
And what he really has also is courage because, you know, they tell you why.
You come on Alex Jones.
We're going to ban you too, of course.
Then nobody gets together.
We're all divided and then they ban everybody in the end.
So it's hanging together, hanging separate.
So Ricky, thank you for joining us today.
No problem.
What's up?
It's good to have you here.
You know, first thing I saw like a year and a half ago was you got mad about CNN bullying people at their houses saying they're Russian agents.
And doxxing people.
But CNN brags, I've been taking off the internet for bullying people, but they can't show any examples.
Well, the thing is you're just loud and crazy and people hate loud and crazy apparently.
So you just got to be careful on how you talk, you know, even, even I have to be careful.
I put a cookie on my ass and they almost banned me for that.
You think that's right?
No, I don't think that's right, but I definitely don't want to go to that visual.
So you're very popular and I've seen a lot of your videos.
How would you describe yourself just a free speech guy?
Free speech, memer.
I like memes, like a lot of fucking memes.
And I just like to have fun, you know, just like you like that.
We're all having fun on the internet, right?
So it's what we're all about.
Why do you think there's been such a purge of free speech in the last few months?
A lot of social justice warriors, a lot of them recently think since the internet gotten so big,
a lot of people have now had tablets and there's a lot of fucking retards out there now.
So we got to, we got to stay in our ground.
That's what we got to do.
Ricky, we do need to do that.
And you're a very interesting fella, but we're on hundreds of TV radio stations and we're delaying
when you're using non-Ting's English.
So just give me a big favor and because it's hard for us to delay that.
Of course. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Well, we'll just chop out 10 second pieces of you and it doesn't make sense.
And believe me, they can promote Nambla on HBO as a good thing.
And that guy's drooling over five-year-old girls.
They don't see that as obscene, but if you use non-Ting's English Saxon, it's a bad thing.
So I'm not a Pharisee.
I don't think it's bad that you're doing that.
It just shows the world we live in of censorship.
Where do you think this is all going?
Do you think the establishment of the SJWs have jumped the shark with their censorship
or do you think they're going to be victorious?
I don't like to look at it like that.
I think just a lot of people just have tablets now and they just need to be destroyed.
Not destroyed, but, you know, taken away from the Internet.
Well, I just don't get the dishonorableness of, even though I hate CNN and they tried
to ban me everywhere, I don't go lobbying to have them banned.
I mean, at a certain point, though, they become a clear and present danger when they
organize against me to silence me.
Now they're in the column of, I mean, a real enemy.
Well, maybe you should fight back.
Have you tried fighting back?
Well, let me ask you this.
Yeah, I got in the face of that Darcy fella, whatever his name is.
He's not the Twitter head, Jack Dorsey, Oliver Darcy.
And they said, well, he's a public figure in public.
And I said, how dare you be a modern book burner?
So I was fully banned for talking to a full grown man.
And then he was all over the news.
He broke that I was banned on the other Twitter pages yesterday.
I was very proud of that.
I mean, he's so dishonorable that I don't know how to describe it.
Wow.
You know, Twitter, you're not the only one that Twitter banned.
Twitter bans a lot of people for the littlest things.
Like a friend could be joking around with another friend saying, you're this and that
and bam, you're banned.
So I don't think it's Twitter themselves are doing it.
I think it's their system that they have in place that automatically bans you for the littlest thing.
You're talking about the algorithm.
Well, when we come back, let's talk about that because David Knight was banned.
And he's a very gentle fella because he read a satire piece.
In fact, you guys print me that saying that Hillary was 50% reptilian DNA.
He said this is satire and read the article and was banned.
And they said in the news that we believe reptoids are real.
So they defame us.
We're reading someone else's report.
We say it satire and they ban us for saying Hillary's a reptile.
If I ever want to say something on Twitter or any social media, I don't do it over text.
I use your video feature and say what I want to say on there.
That way I don't get in trouble by their system.
That's right.
When people put out videos of this show, don't call it Alex Jones.
Call it Trump said devil or I love kitty cats.
We'll be back.
It's a no brainer.
A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors.
Festicides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset.
And fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
So, Ricky Burridge, the character I thought we'd get him on to get his take on the world and where he sees things going.
But, if you pull back from this, when I go out to these Democrat events, when they had a few weeks ago in Austin titled,
The Rhetoric of Donald Trump and Alex Jones, it's about me, they're lying about me, I walk up and they're lying about me.
They've got Congress shut down the main road, and they have the police take me away and kick me out of it.
Because they're going to lie about me and they're not letting me respond.
When I started saying America's back, you're not going to stop America, they literally began cussing and screaming and howling.
Same thing happened yesterday in Houston with the 15 anti-Trump demonstrators with their little blow-up doll of the president.
We've got some b-roll of that if you guys want to roll it.
And they got so angry.
So, Ricky, I've got a lot of questions about what your pet peeves are and things you think of.
You think of Elizabeth Warren, what you think of, you know, just the general situation in this country.
But what do you make of just what I see the incredible authoritarianism of the left and how, maybe you disagree with me and tell me if you do,
they literally, their religion is hating the country they live in that isn't that bad of a country.
What are your thoughts on that general discussion?
I believe I'm a people guy.
I believe anyone can change.
And right now, with Trump being president, I think everyone's going a bit too crazy right now.
And they just need to tone it down and look out the outside, take a hammer, smash your feelings and just look at yourself and say,
man, am I going way too crazy over these politics?
Should I maybe enjoy my life a little more?
Should I be like Ricky Berwick and just roll with it?
So, how did you get involved on YouTube?
I mean, how did you get involved in politics?
I only get involved in politics if I see something that's really, really dumb.
Like, are you familiar with the MPC meme?
Oh, absolutely.
What do you think about that?
I love it.
I mean, I think it shows like THX 1138 1984, the Apple ad of these gray faces, gray uniforms, really the archetypal image of conformity.
I'm the complete opposite.
I just see a great meme that a 16-year-old made over Photoshop or MS Paint posted online and everyone's getting triggered over it.
It's hilarious.
It's really funny to me.
See, I'm not really a politics guy, but I enjoy a great meme when I see one.
Sure, but you understand why it triggers the left so much is because it is the archetype of the conformist mind slave.
That's what they think?
Well, yeah, I mean, I mean, you've seen the 1984 Apple ad that's the most famous out there in history and it's literally MPC memes.
Well, I don't think it's just a commercial that I don't think it's an MPC meme.
You know about THX 1138, all that.
I mean, the archetype of shaved heads, gray uniforms, gray skin.
That's the archetype of kind of a suboid slave class.
But I really don't think that MPC was made to be like that until someone pointed that out and everyone started to...
Oh, I agree that MPC just fits into that.
I mean, I agree with you. So why do you think it triggers the left so much and the New York Times breathlessly was like, thank God, Twitter's bad and anyone using it.
It's so faithful.
Does people just want a reason to complain about something?
Well, let me ask you this.
What do you think of MPC?
All right, so it's a great meme and I did a video of it myself.
But where do you think it's going to go then?
I think it's going to die in like a month.
Like every meme.
Now, I have been kind of the eternal meme.
Please do tell.
Well, no, I mean, until I said about a year ago, I love the memes.
It's helped us get bigger than the globalists started like stopping super deluxe in their own organs at Time Warner making me memes.
They thought because kids were laughing at me, that was like being laughed at was hurting me because they're all stuck up globalist skexies.
I was loving it.
So we're still, I'm still getting me a lot, but I love it that they didn't know that it was helping me because they take themselves as serious.
You should do a lot more of your crazy, crazy self dude.
It's really great.
I do it all the time on my YouTube.
Yes, you do get haters that your fans overtake the haters and pretty soon you have an army of fans.
But I mean, as long in the huge competition for eyeballs, if people laugh at you, well, how does it hurt you if you get some attuned into the serious show?
I love it.
I know.
What do you think of Pepe meme?
The Pepe meme.
I mean, the guy that supposedly created it was told the Daily Dot only publications use it. I want you to use it inferred license, all this stuff.
I thought it was kind of overblown.
I think MPC is better.
And then some guys said, oh, sell a poster I made.
We sold like hardly any.
Then I get sued by the same dude saying, use my meme.
It's fair use.
People say, well, then why are you countersuing him?
Even though there's no money involved because it's BS.
To A, say I'm a white supremacist because I put a poster out with it or to say it's white supremacist and then say you can use it and then sue you when you use it.
Ridiculous.
Really ridiculous.
Yeah, but the Democratic Party's fun in the lawsuit.
So they're not too happy now that I'm fighting with them.
I mean, at a certain point I'm like, okay, sue me.
I'm going to counter sue you.
If I ever got sued for anything, I think I would just laugh it off.
Well, you know, no, usually it's literally just the they think it makes you lose sleep.
And then as soon as you start fighting it takes money, then they crap their pants because they always they'll put a lawsuit out and just make up the craziest crap.
Because, you know, defamation is protected in a suit.
So someone can say things in a suit that's totally not true and then the news runs with it.
So that's really it's a new form of publishing.
The news knows that no one believes the mainstream news.
So now they'll just finance somebody to sue you so they can put lies in it.
You understand?
It's all to me.
It's crazy.
Tell me about that hound dog that's over there in the corner of your room.
That's a piggy bank.
What's what's its name?
It has no name.
It's been there for like maybe five years now.
This is the quest dust.
But you can ask me about my hammer.
Yeah, you have the hammer a lot.
Yeah, I do have the hammer.
I like to smash things a lot to get my anger out on things like so social justice warriors pretend.
Pretend this three C's PCs is a social justice warrior and they're talking about maybe ending your show.
Right.
You just take your hammer and you tell them that shut up.
Shut up.
And I shut them up pretty much.
We'll be right back.
Ladies and gentlemen with our guest Ricky Merwick.
I'm Alex Jones.
This is the info or we're in a fight with internal forces.
Fight about the chai coms and big banks.
Wow, think about that.
In these uncertain times, it makes sense to have a sustainable backup method to cook food and boil water.
If your current plan includes using a fuel burning stove or cooking over an open fire, then there's a much better way.
The Minuteman rocket stove is a biomass burning cooking stove that only requires small quantities of sticks and twigs for fuel.
The Minuteman stove is easy to use, smokeless, portable, powerful and sustainable for the finest in survival cooking stoves and fire starters made right here in the USA.
Go to minutemanstove.com.
That's minutemanstove.com.
Hear that?
That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV.
Even when you're miles away, security is a mindset.
And fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
The real Red Pill Plus, ladies and gentlemen, our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products.
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan-favorite products, the Real Red Pill Plus.
Real Red Pill Plus is an all-new version of the Powerhouse Kreglennon product.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful Kreglennon base, the Real Red Pill, can quickly become one of our fellow InfoWars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including 3D extract and Ramate extract,
and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
It's got all the great stuff that Real Red Pill has, but it's also got the most in it.
Get the Real Red Pill Plus at infowarstores.com.
And now, because of their intensifying censorship, it's more important than ever that everyone go to infowars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
so there's no way the censors can get between us with critical videos, articles, breaking news, intel, you name it.
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the infowars.com articles, to share the videos, to tell people about the local stations you're listening to.
The bare minimum you can do is sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com forward slash newsletter.
We are the Renaissance, and we are winning.
X2, we were selling it for about three years, and then they found out how big it was and how much we were buying.
And they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract, and right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2.
It literally is so pure that if you put in a picker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate, it gasses, like I dream of genie and this is purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it, ordered it six months ago.
So I get the price down, I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I broke the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run, in fact, right now it is the last run of survival shield X2.
And we've got a good supply of it, but it'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you have an experience at m4store.com, if you have experience, you know how great it is, I suggest you stop up on it.
It's available right now for limited time at m4store.com right now.
Listen, there is a ton of HD video that we're going to upload the next hour at m4store.com.
Our live feeds got cut, 18 Twitter accounts destroyed.
They didn't want you to see us interacting with the great folks last night at the Trump rally in Houston.
But it takes time to then download the HD to upload it to get it out there.
But it's all going up on m4store.com in the next few hours.
But before we go back to our guests, here's a few minutes of just one of the shirt vendors I talked to who was super articulate about Trump and why he supports Trump.
Then I'll ask our guest, Ricky Burwick, about what he thinks about Trump and where he thinks that phenomenon is going.
But here it is from last night in Houston.
Tell us why you're out here.
Well, I'm out here to support Trump, our president.
One of the greatest presidents of this millennium of the century.
I mean, he's making stuff happen.
Let me ask this question.
In two years, he's doing what presidents for the last 20 years have been promising.
Why do you think he's delivering in the others' condom, whether it was Bush or Obama?
Oh, because he's not going to be led astray.
He's not going to let the media tell him what to do.
He's not going to let Hollywood tell him what to do.
Then he's not going to let these politicians, actually, the politicians, they have to get on board.
That's why Cruz is here.
Cruz cannot get this type of energy behind him.
You're on fire.
You tell folks right now what's going on.
Cruz cannot get this type of energy behind him.
I mean, yesterday, I think Cruz might have had a couple hundred people.
Don's got 20-something thousand people, all right?
And 80,000 turned away.
Hello, baby.
All right.
And everybody wants to go see him.
They don't have places big enough.
Oh, look at that.
You got the signature right there.
Hey, they don't have places big enough to hold the people that want to support him.
You know?
They really don't.
Is that why the establishment's so scared of him?
Oh, they're really scared of him.
I hate to compare to Martin Luther King, but it is that same energy.
They're really high.
Yeah, definitely.
Everybody's listening.
There's Latinos.
There's Arabic people in there.
There's Pakistani people in there.
There's whites.
There's blacks.
It's a melting pot of America.
Oh, I'm about to say, I go to leftist things to cover them.
And I'm not being mean to white people.
It's almost all crazy white people, like they escape from mental institution.
I go to Trump rallies.
You see more black folks in anywhere else.
It's amazing.
What I do, this is what I do for a living.
I travel around and follow the Trumpster at all of his rallies.
All of his rallies, and the energy is great.
Hey, this guy brings together people that hate him.
They still want to come around and be around the Trumpster.
It's like you said, it's the energy.
When I talked to Trump privately, he talks about it on air now,
but I was the first to talk about Trump's whole about energy.
Right.
He literally talks about, did you feel the energy at the RNC in Cleveland?
Did you feel the energy at the inauguration?
He told me, oh, I love the churches.
Feel the energy in those black churches.
He thought you're saying that on TV.
He knows how to use that.
He said to me, he feels the energy.
He knows how to use that, really.
He can take positive, well, negative and positive, like yin-yang,
and turn it into a big ball, and that's the train, baby.
Okay.
I'm going to tell you right now.
How does he do it?
What's the secret?
I don't know.
I mean, if we knew it, heck, we all could do it.
This guy's a tough line down.
Nobody can do what he does, really.
I mean, look at this.
Every single week, a couple of days ago, where was he at?
In Nevada somewhere.
Then he was in Arizona, Miss Arizona.
I mean, they just follow him.
They want to be a part of history.
And everything he's done so far, he's succeeded.
And I know people that do his dad, and people that,
I can tell you, he's been planning this.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That's what he's doing.
When Ronald Reagan met him, he said,
I think I just met the next president.
Master chess player.
That's what he is.
Master chess player.
I mean, he's got the pieces over.
I think most of the stuff, he's already done put in places.
He's just doing it now.
That's good.
The full video is up on infowars.com and newswars.com.
And we're going back to Ricky Burwick, who is hammering.
And I remember this Lawrence O'Donnell little piece we did,
where he's like, stop the hammering.
Is Lawrence O'Donnell talking about you, Ricky?
Hello, this is Josh Hernandez.
Thank you both for joining us.
And I really appreciate it.
Coming up is Donald Trump going to be called to testify to Congress.
Michael Liskoff has the latest on that.
But they're going to stop the hammering.
Stop the hammering.
I'll go down to the goddamn floor myself and stop it.
Keep the goddamn commercial break going.
I'm sorry.
That's the unedited one.
I apologize to stations.
That's not an FCC violation.
If you try not to air that on purpose, we'll find the edited one.
I guess I rushed him to do that.
Are you the one that Lawrence O'Donnell is upset about?
I think so.
I think he's seen it too much of my videos and he's sick of me.
I'm sick of me.
That hound dog kind of looks like Nancy Pelosi.
Why are you so in love with my hound dog?
You want me to grab it?
I want you to kill it.
You want, okay.
Okay.
One second.
I like dogs, but you know what?
That one, that looks like Nancy Pelosi.
So I want you, I want you to kill it.
You want me to kill it?
I want you to kill Nancy Pelosi.
No, no, no.
Don't do it.
Don't do it.
I was just joking.
That isn't like Pelosi.
It's too cute.
What are some of those demon creatures back there?
You've got some demon creatures back there on your cabinet.
Which one of those looks more like Pelosi?
Demon creatures.
You want to see a demon creature?
One second.
I'll show you a demon creature.
Here we go, ladies and gentlemen.
This is number one censored broadcast in the world for this reason right now.
Okay.
So who is that?
Yeah, demon creature right here.
Who is that?
Is that Jack Dorsey?
Do you want, do you want to be?
I want you to tell Jack Dorsey to stop being a shempering, censoring monster.
Tell him.
Stop being a censoring monster.
There you go.
Exactly.
Now we're talking.
Now have the hound dog piss on him.
Hound dog's daddy.
Hey, since we're in the spirit of a little bit of comedy here, my friend.
Let me play this video.
Did you know I interviewed Beto yesterday?
Did you?
Yeah, the media made a big deal about it.
But this is the HD.
We're about to premiere.
This is a shock video.
Alex Jones interviews Beto or Rourke.
Here it is.
Where are you going?
Dude, dude, he's leaving.
Dude, it's Beto.
It's Beto.
It's Beto.
Hey, brother, how you doing?
It's Beto.
Beto or Rourke.
He's right here.
Jesus.
We have the interview.
Beto.
Beto.
Why did you say that you want to be an old semi-automatics in Texas?
Why did you say that your mother was a Republican if she wasn't?
Why did you do a drunken hemorrhage?
People take themselves a little too seriously.
Beto.
It's horseman-er.
Beto, you're just like Senator Marco Rubio.
You won't talk to me.
Why won't Beto or Rourke?
What's his real name?
Maybe he'll call to that.
I do look totally insane.
What's his first name?
My haircut's short, don't I?
Robert Francis Beto.
Oh, Rourke.
Talk to me.
Treat me like a human.
He's coming over like, what in the hell?
Ladies and gentlemen, that cannot be our next Senator from Texas.
Go to hell, Beto.
So there you go.
Fake Mexican 100% pendejo.
That's the T-shirts.
So there you go.
What do you make of that Ricky Berwick?
I interviewed Beto.
Pretty big interview, huh?
Did it smell?
Not really.
It was horseman-er.
I didn't get too close.
It was just a stupid gag I did.
The media went crazy and said,
Jones talks to poop.
You are the walking version of me.
If we put on glasses, I think we look alike.
I think we do look a lot alike.
You know, maybe you're from another dimension,
like you're from me from the future.
Do you believe in the dimensions?
I believe that Hillary is the sexiest woman I've ever seen.
I think Trump is a lot sexier.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
You're going to get in trouble with Twitter and YouTube
if you talk about how you have a...
My fans already know I love Trump.
I did a ton of videos about Trump.
We're going to break then.
Because it is good with the Invasion Force marching forward
and World Government of the Chai comms
working with Canada against the United States.
We're going to have a little fun here, folks.
We'll talk about why he likes Trump with Ricky Burwick
on the other side of Malik Jones with newswords.com
and infowords.com.
Tomorrow's the news today.
And where we talk to Horseman,
which is much better looking than Beto O'Rourke.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park
or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know.
I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SupermailVitality at infowordsstore.com
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day
to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowordsstore.com and get SupermailVitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality
before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you with SupermailVitality
from infowordsstore.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates.
But a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles.
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests
for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels
of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter.
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure,
but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure
raises the pH of the water.
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain
can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system
will purify it.
The scientists at InfoWarsLife have created a powerful formula
for inflammatory support and joint support.
Discover the power of ancient medicine with bodies.
Bodies contains one of the most potent forms of turmeric available.
Turmeric has been used for thousands of years
and is one of the most studied herbals today.
It is well known in traditional medicine for its soothing properties.
Our pure turmeric extract plus peppering from black pepper
makes for optimal absorption to help boost and support
your flexibility, mobility, joint function, immune system,
and so much more.
Regular turmeric root from the store
only contains 1 to 5% of active ingredients.
But our turmeric root extract contains over 95% of the active ingredients.
Bodies combines turmeric with organic herbs such as spearmint,
sage, lemon balm, and thyme
to work synergistically for full body support.
Try bodies today at InfoWarsLife.com
or call us at 1-88-253-3139.
Our grandparents, the great grandparents,
knew that they canned food during the fall,
so they'd have it during the winter.
And that's what I'm talking about at InfoWarsLife.com.
With InfoWars Select, it's the full spectrum
of my patriotic supply on the top.
Most respected companies out there.
But because I private label it,
I'm able to go below cost on contracts
that all their other distributors aren't able to do.
But I want to be a market leader
and I want you to have storeable food
so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back
at InfoWarsStore.com.
On InfoWars Select, storeable foods.
They've got special diet foods.
They've got three-month supplies, your supplies,
weak emergency supplies.
They've got so many great products there.
Maybe you got a three-year supply.
If stuff happens, you can feed your whole block.
It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
If you're buying war bonds, bring you great products.
Whether with God's help, we are unstoppable.
InfoWarsStore.com.
InfoWars Select, high-quality storeable foods
by my Patreon supply.
Thank you for watching.
I'm very, very, very dangerous folks.
So, Ricky, why do you like Trump?
Why do you support him?
I grew up watching his TV show, The Predatorous,
and when he became president,
well, when he was trying to become president,
I thought it was just a big joke.
Oh, he's just trying to get publicity
and then when I went on further, I was like,
oh, he's serious.
He wants to become president.
I'm just like, this is going to be funny.
This is going to be hilarious
because he's just a big, oh, he's a jolly old guy.
And I'm surprised that a lot of people hate him
for being president and they think they know, like,
his life and what he's trying to do for the United States.
You see, I'm Canadian.
I don't get everything why people are mad,
but I guess I can understand why some people are mad.
At the same time, Trump's human.
We're human.
Everyone's human.
We should get along with each other
and respect each other, all right?
And Trump, he has good hair.
He tells some funny jokes once in a while.
He goes over to top that everyone goes over to top.
I know you go over to top.
I know she goes over to top.
I know I go over to top.
So why can't a president go over to top once in a while?
Why does a president have to be serious all the time
and talk business and politics?
Why can't a president be funny and stop getting harassed?
Well, that's the thing and they lie about what he said
and then he's just saying common sense things
like, hey, free market works better
and it's okay to have our country and, hey,
we can't have people waving foreign flags
saying they hate America and they're going to take it over.
People like to over exaggerate things.
I get over exaggerated
and sometimes it's difficult online, you know?
But you got to do what you got to do, you know?
You got to keep moving forward.
Well, have you been censored for your Trump support?
I don't force on it.
My content's not about forcing on one topic.
I focus on a lot of topics, on a lot of jokes.
I create controversial people.
I like to create into a meme, pretty much.
So I don't go off and say, oh, you hate Trump?
You should love Trump!
It's through you if you don't love Trump, you know?
I don't go off and say that.
I try to show Trump as a funny, inimitable guy.
Everyone can be memeable, all right?
Everyone can be funny, except for the people that murder people.
Those people can go in jail.
What do you think the number one meme in history is?
The number one meme in history?
Come on.
Right here, baby.
Really, you think so?
Yeah.
What do you think is the number one meme?
I don't know.
I'm asking the question, well, what is a meme?
How would they judge a few weeks ago, look me in the eyes and say,
Mr. Jones, what is a meme?
How would you describe a meme?
A meme can just be anything that's funny to you.
That goes viral, pretty much.
Well, exactly.
And it's some image or something that other people pick up and riff on
to make more jokes out of, and it kind of goes through permutations.
It depends on what you make a meme out of.
I know making a president meme or a terrorist meme can end up getting
you in trouble, banned, in jail.
What do you make of the EU trying to ban them?
In Mexico, it's like saying trying to ban graffiti.
It's like saying people making jokes or people communicating as banned.
What do you make of that whole move?
I'm glad I'm not in the EU because I'd be in jail in just a hot second there.
No, I know that's what I'm saying is it's the left that's doing this
who always claim they were these bastions of free speech.
Why do you think the left?
I don't believe in the left or the right.
I believe in crazy people.
They're crazy people.
Crazy people that need to go and retirement homes.
No, I know, but here's the deal.
I'm a guy that said left-right paradigm, and I get that before the Republicans
and Democrats were both controlled, but I get the left-hand path, the right-hand path.
Right now, the controlled corporate media, the left, the universities,
and big multinational governments, the EU and the Chicoms and Hollywood,
are ganged up to shut down Christian conservatives, nationalists, and others.
We're under attack.
They've organized.
They're now authoritarians.
So I'm saying, I mean, that's who's leading it is the Cuckelbergs of the world.
What do we do about that?
Or do you disagree?
What do we fight back?
I just love how three months ago they were denying it was censorship,
and now they brag about it.
I mean, and then now, I'm sure you saw the New York Times breathlessly was like,
thank God Twitter is banning people's accounts permanently that share the racist MPC.
So they could call anything racist and then ban it.
I mean, this is major publications literally fawning at the altar of censorship.
They're not just censoring.
They're like broadcasting it like it's the new ultimate virtue.
Internet censorship needs to be stopped.
They need to leave the Internet alone.
The Internet is fine.
Where's that right now?
If they censor it even more, I'm canceling my Internet series and well, you know,
one of the major inventors, the Internet's coming out with the system that basically
looked like 15 years ago, 95% of the Internet was small websites.
Now 95% is the big social networks.
They took the web over.
They got us on it to give all our energy and time and content to them.
And now they're cheating.
Cheaters, cheat codes.
Well, you know, Google and Facebook and Twitter give the control left the cheat codes.
They broadcast their tweets.
They magnify.
They amplify their crap.
And I just think it's insane that they've gone this far.
I wonder how far they're going to go until they get complete control.
Like the radio.
The radio used to be like the Internet back in the day.
And then the government got control of that.
And now it's censored.
Now they're trying to do the same thing with the Internet.
And I guess if we let it, we deserve it.
You know, and the Republicans, they're letting the Democrats censor.
You know, they act like they're against it.
And they Ted Cruz has talked about it and Trump's talked about it.
But, you know, right now, I know for a fact they have the Trump campaign claims he's this big Internet technologist guy.
And he openly literally just thinks it's funny what's happening to conservatives.
And I think there's almost this sick thing, not by Trump, but by some of the Republicans around him that, oh, well, all the other Republicans get censored out.
We're the only ones that have voices.
And so that makes our voices even more powerful.
Well, it doesn't.
We lost the operating system of the American reboot.
Trump has adopted it.
It's working really well.
And then you get into some type of cock-blocking operation with these old Republican blue-bloods and people who are just having fun hopping around on stages in front of people.
They don't realize how deadly serious this war is.
Deadly.
That's why you just try to grab your hammer and fight back.
So you like that hammer, huh?
Oh, I love the hammer.
Did we ever find the video with Lawrence O'Donnell on the hammering?
Here, let's go out to break with that with our amazing guest, Ricky Burwick.
He's at RickyBurwick.com.
Here he is.
Stop the hammering.
Stop the hammering.
Stop the hammering out there.
Who's got a hammer?
Where is it?
We did it again.
Hey, that's great.
I don't ever want to air this again.
I have a new rule.
We mess up.
And I love it.
I'm not mad at the crew.
I love it.
I want this pulled out of rotation.
And I want it gone.
Because we make all these incredible videos, and then they air a couple of times, and then
they phantom zone.
And then hell, YouTube already phantom zones.
And then if we want to have a clip, we can't get it.
And so I have a new rule.
No more memes.
No more videos.
No more promos.
I mean this.
We'll air here on this show.
They're going to stack up.
It's going to be cool.
Until we have a system, because we have made thousands of incredible things.
Some of them never air.
And then once I go looking for them, they're never found again, which is okay.
But that's why we're doing something experimental and different here.
Burwick, we really appreciate your support of free speech.
And we salute you.
And we thank you, my friend.
And God bless you.
We look forward to speaking to you again in the near future.
Thank you.
There he goes.
Coming up.
Coming up.
Well, we've got a big fourth hour for you today.
I got to tell you.
All right.
You'll never see it here again.
You'll never see it here again.
To do rule.
No more promos.
Anytime.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage.
And that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals,
please consider a contribution.
$25, $50, $100, $250, even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here
to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship
in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
And with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it,
we're unstoppable.
It's an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
HAPPYS helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being,
and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today.
HAPPYS from InfowarsStore.com
Hi, this is Gerald Salenti sitting in for Alex Jones.
It's always an honor to be here on Infowars.
And what a time this is.
Yep, it's wild out there and we've got a little construction going on over here.
That noise you hear is going to go away in a second next door.
The equity markets.
Get ready for an economic 9-11 terror strike.
That's right.
Look what's going on over there in China.
We saw the last few days they brought out ahead of the central bank.
People's Bank of China.
They brought out the top regulators in the equity markets.
They brought out the number two guy running the show on the sheet.
The premier.
Everything's okay.
Take it easy.
The markets are in good shape.
Don't worry.
The Shanghai Composite Index is down some 30% since January 18th, 2018.
Imagine if the Dow Jones was down 30% since January.
It'd be panic on the streets.
An economic 9-11 is struck.
But you're not hearing about it in the news.
You're talking about issues that are unrelated to why these markets are going down.
So, here at Shanghai, like within a week, was down nearly 10%.
The guys come out, start talking that everything is okay.
And the markets boost up 7% of over 4% yesterday.
But down today.
They have a thing called the national team.
And when the markets were going down a few years ago, the national team came in there
and they just started buying up stocks and driving the prices up.
And the states over here, the Plunge Protection Team, these are rigged games, man.
That's all they are.
They're rigged games.
So, yes, they were able to boost it up temporarily.
But let's look at the facts in China.
We're talking about the world's number two economy.
That's right.
The second largest economy in the world.
It's the top index, the Shanghai Composite Index, down over 30%.
Oh, those GDP numbers came out.
That's right.
You know where the GDP is going?
Back to panic of 08 levels.
Direct investment in China, infrastructure investment.
Oh, it's doing great.
That's it, 1992 levels.
Retail sales down.
Manufacturing down.
Has nothing to do with tariffs.
Car sales?
They're going down now.
The worst they've seen.
As they used to go up, they're looking at it go down.
The worst they've seen in 30 years.
That's how the numbers are declining.
That's what we're looking at.
This is China.
They could talk all they want.
They could national team all they want.
But these cats are going to strike out.
So we're saying is an economic 9-11 terror strike.
Be prepared.
The worst is yet to come.
And I'm coming right back in a few minutes.
I'm coming right back in a few minutes.
I'm coming right back in a few minutes.
It's time to try Flora Life and Carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Live from the Info Wars.com Studios in the recaptured state of Texas.
It's Alex Jones.
It's not exactly Alex Jones.
I know we look a lot alike, you know.
But I'm really honored to be on as a host on the Alex Jones Info Wars.
And I thank Info Wars for all it's doing and all it's done over the years
to give you real news in the time of junk news.
All right, Michael Moore came out and said,
Oh, the news is a dumb and down people.
Yeah, no kidding.
We're writing about this for how many years?
Dumb down news, junk news.
Michael Moore news, no news.
So in listening to Info Wars and doing all they're doing
and the difficult times they're having by being censored
because they only want one voice to go out there.
Do all you can to support Info Wars to keep the voice of truth alive and well.
And one of the ways you can do it, of course, is by buying their wonderful products.
And I do too.
And one of my favorite is male vitality.
So we got here, super male vitality.
Makes you feel super duper.
Keeps you going.
Got a boogie before the lights go out because tomorrow is iffy.
And super male vitality is just one of the very many great products that they have.
And wow, 50% off with free shipping.
I better order some more.
What else they have here?
Brainforce plus 50% off with free shipping.
Secret 12, 50% off with free shipping.
50% off Info Wars life.
Super sale with free shipping.
Unprecedented, never been done before.
So do what you can do to make sure that the truth and facts are put in front of you rather than the manipulated fake news brought to you by the five corporate networks that control over 90% of all the news.
So put your money where your heart is and support Info Wars.
Going back to China, this is a big one.
It's not making the news.
Most people, what's a national team?
They think, oh, they didn't play offs this year.
No, no, that's not that.
They're rigging the markets.
China is in deep trouble.
As I said, their GDP numbers, the worst since 2000, the panic of 08.
Think about auto sales declining like they haven't done in 30 years has nothing to do with trade and tariffs.
That's the BS that you're getting from the BS news.
That's right.
The corporate media trades and tariffs are terrible.
We shouldn't have any trades and tariffs.
We should allow our manufacturers to go over to other countries.
Use their slave labor.
Give them all of the technology that they've created over the decades so they can make this stuff cheap
and then import it back into the United States so they could get a bigger profit.
Trump is 100% wrong.
I would say 95% wrong when he blames China for stealing the technology.
The United States and European corporations gave them all that they wanted so they could make their cars over there.
They could make all their technology over there.
That's right. We'll set up your plants.
We're just going to move them from here and bring them over there.
And we'll give you the technology because here's the deal.
Hey, you're dealing with us, the Chinese.
You could come over here.
But you've got to be a partner with us.
Capicia, however you say that in Chinese.
But not really a partner.
You could only own 49% of the operation.
So set up your operation.
Give us all your technology and make your stuff over here so you can sell it over here
and then bring it back to your country and make more money.
That's the deal.
Brought to you by Bill Clinton.
He was the one that started at the worst.
I remember back in the day, Reagan tried to get this through.
They stopped him, man.
Bush, senior, that is.
He tried to push through.
Man, we're not going to do an after.
Why those Republicans, they're selling out to people, giving away our jobs.
But slick Willy Clinton slimes his way in.
Well, you know, you remember Clinton.
I smoked, but I didn't inhale.
Yeah, that guy.
I didn't have sex with that woman.
Yeah, that guy.
And all the people, all the Democrats, just like they buy Obama crap, they put slick Willy junk.
And he gave us NAFTA.
Nearly a million jobs lost from a trade balance that we basically had with them.
During the trade surplus, before slick Willy brought us in with Mexico and Canada,
what are we, a 71 billion dollar trade deficit with Mexico?
Yeah, get them cars made south to the border down Mexico way.
Use that cheap labor.
Bring the cars back up here and we'll make more money.
That's the deal, Jack.
No, going back to China.
China is in trouble.
They're exports, they're still doing fine with them, but they're importing a lot of product.
And now that dollar is getting stronger.
Reason the dollar is getting stronger because everybody else is getting weaker.
And then interest rates are going up.
The higher the interest rates go, the stronger the dollar gets.
The occurrences go down like the Chinese Yuan.
Yuan, goodbye.
That's right, it's down about 7% against the dollar this year.
That's going to help them in exports somewhat, but they're importing a lot of product.
And now it's costing them more.
China is the market to watch.
I mentioned about the national team rigging the market.
We have the plunge protection team here in the States.
The Federal Reserve has a trading desk when they want to do it to prop up the markets.
We are in volatile market territory.
I do not give financial advice, but the people that have heard me on Info Wars
or subscribers to the Trends Journal.
And we put out trend alerts each week.
Monthly Trends Journal.
Trends in the news broadcast know that I've been saying the bottom of gold is at $1,200.
And I went to $1,185.
So, Andy, I take it easy, man.
That's right there.
We don't see it going much lower.
The interest rates go higher.
That puts pressure down on gold, but it's putting pressure down on the global equity markets
as their currencies decline their debt level, $250 trillion worth of debt.
Now you've got to pay it off with a declining currency.
We are in a volatile time.
It's an economic 9-11.
China is the one to watch.
The first strikes of this economic terror have been launched.
You could watch it around the world, but no one's talking about it as we are.
And looking at it as deeply as we are.
The Chinese are in trouble.
They have a debt-to-GDP ratio of some 300.
That's off the charts.
And it's destabilization around the world.
Look what's going on in Italy.
They're in a fight with Brussels.
They want to put out a budget and Brussels won't let them have it.
And you know what the Italians are saying.
What they say.
That's going to threaten the euro and the stability of the European Union.
This could be the beginning of the end of the euro.
And we believe it is.
Trends are born.
They grow.
They mature.
Reach old age and die.
The anti-euro trend has just begun.
And so too has the economic 9-11.
We'll be back in a bit.
DanPilla.com.
That's DanPilla.com.
It's a no-brainer.
There's a lot of new stuff going on here.
You can check it out on the website.
Or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Pain in my neck, back, and shoulders has really gotten worse.
Relief for body pain is here with Sunny Bay heating pads.
Well, the last thing I want is to take another pill,
so what's so good about Sunny Bay heating pads?
Sunny Bay heating pads made by Biomed DV Design,
It's also perfect to wrap around your legs, knees or shoulder and neck.
But I need to know their good quality.
Of course, Sunny Bay heating pads and pillows are often an Amazon choice.
And it's easy and most affordable when you purchase your Sunny Bay heating pads right from our website.
SunshinePillows.com or call us 253-678-1361.
Hey, a Sunny Bay heating pad would make a great gift, right?
Yes, and they start at just $19.99 and free shipping is available.
So call 253-678-1361 or shop for your Sunny Bay heating pad at SunshinePillows.com.
So we've already had incredible success.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target.
And if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
M4s.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags.
We'll win.
We have huge sales at M4s.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrelson Global is going to win.
This is M4s Darker Tower. We do your support. I'm counting on you.
M4s Life is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source prebiotic fiber and it's got the very best concentrated fibers
from berries and fruits and other compounds that have been known to be the very best
for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture,
floral life as well as Myco ZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product
and these other products. You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings
and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber.
Get yours today in 4slife.com.
Well, it's not exactly Alex Jones, but sitting in for Alex Jones.
This is Gerald Salenti, the Trends Journal, the Trends Research Institute.
Always a pleasure being on Info Wars. I'm very appreciative all that Alex Jones does
and the courage that he has and all the people at Info Wars to stand up
for the truth, freedom and liberty at a time when so much of it's being taken away from us
and how the censorship trend is destroying freedom of speech in America
and hardly gets any press at all.
And when it does come out in the press, it's, as they always do,
put in a way that makes it look like propaganda
because that's all the media is today, the major media propagandists.
They sell war, they sell hate, and they hate peace.
Yes, because they're pieces of crap, so that's why they do what they do.
They're prostitutes. They get paid to put out by their corporate johns
and their Washington whore masters.
So please do everything you can to support Info Wars.
Again, put your money where your heart and mind are.
And they have great products, great sale, like none other that they've had in a long time,
50% off all Info Wars life super sale with free shipping.
Never been done before. I'm going to order more products as well.
And as I said, I love their male vitality keeps me going.
And what else they have here? Alpha Power, 50% off Red Pill Plus,
and Red Pill, 50% off Silver Bullet, 50% off and free shipping.
So again, do what you can.
I want to go back to the economy again because, hey,
it's all about a pocketbook issue when you get down to it.
Matter of fact, that used to be the campaign slogan when Slick Willie Clinton ran 1992.
The campaign slogan in the offices, not for the public,
but for them to keep focusing on was, quote, it's the economy, stupid.
That's what the people want to hear about and they know it.
Well, guess what? It's interest rates, stupid.
The country can't take higher interest rates, neither can the world.
And you're seeing it going on as US interest rates get stronger,
the dollar grows higher, global currencies grow weaker,
and that $250 trillion worth of debt out there has to be serviced with declining currencies.
So going back to what I was speaking of before, we believe the market end is near.
Again, I am not a gloom and dooma.
I'm the man in the magazine, the Trends Journal, the first, the first to call the Trump rally back in 2016.
Two weeks after he beat Hillary Clinton.
We said the Trump rally was real because we knew two things that he would do,
lower taxes and deregulation.
And they lowered taxes.
Corporate taxes went from $39, way down.
And what happened with a lot of that dough that they repatriated overseas?
$1.5 trillion tax cut, stock buybacks.
We're going to see a trillion dollars worth of stock buybacks this year.
So less stocks you have out there on the market because they're buying them back,
supply, demand, the price goes up. That's running out now.
So what you have are profits and losses.
So here's a little story.
In yesterday's Wall Street Journal, soft sales cash shadow on stock rally.
Markets fundamentals remain mostly strong, but revenue shortfalls contribute to concern.
Revenue growth in the United States, companies are slowing,
stirring concerns at a corporate profit boom that has driven the Dow Jones industrial average
and other major stock indices to dozens of records in 2018 is in jeopardy.
And that's what you're starting to see. That's why the markets were so volatile today.
So when you look at it, buy, sell or hold, why would I buy
when you see stock valuations where they are in an overleveraged market and overvalued?
That's why we believe that this is the beginning of the end.
Again, we were the first to call the Trump rally and the first to call the correction in February of this year.
And the first to call an economic 9-11 terror strike just a little over a month ago on September 18th, 2018.
So what we're suggesting is that you prepare, you know, GCs, Gerald Sollenties, GCs, 3Gs, guns, gold and a getaway plan.
And again, I don't give financial advice. A model of the trends journal is, hey, think for yourself.
We just provide the data. Provide the data just like I was talking about.
The country cannot take higher interest rates. You're seeing home sales going down.
You're seeing new mortgage applications going down. Hey, guess what? Today, a city group came out and said,
you know, we're going to give you more benefits when you take out that credit card with us.
The more money you spend, the more free miles you're going to get and other benefits.
They need the money. There's going to be a war for the dough.
We're in a very, very precarious time right now. And again, it's bigger than the United States. It's global.
The emerging markets are in bear territory down more than 20%.
You're looking at the European markets down for the year.
The only markets, the major markets that moved up are the U.S. markets. Why? Because of what I said before.
Tax cuts, deregulation and incentives to bring that dough back home so you can reinvest it in the markets.
So again, be prepared, think ahead and tune into the global news.
And of course, stay tuned to Infowars because their shows really give you the information you need to know.
I'll be right back.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extracts 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
We all know the importance of fish oils. While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultrapurified krill oil and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further. Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know. I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality before it's gone. This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality.
So I want you to experience SupermailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail in you.
SupermailVitality.com.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, InfowarsLife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and Omega-3s found in our high-quality ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s, Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less-required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high-quality Crill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or you separately, it's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil.
Now available at InfowarsStore.com.
Welcome back, welcome back. It's always great to be on Alex Jones and hosting the show for him. It's a great honor for me and a privilege.
I admire all that Infowars does in bringing out the truth and the facts and not the spin as they do with the prostitute news that people call the mainstream news.
Just propaganda networks. That's all they are. So it's a great being here.
Again, today I'm concentrating a lot on the economy. And I was talking about what interest rates do. And the higher they go, the slower the economy goes.
And Trump, of course, has said that Fed is gone crazy, going low-go. And he's against rising interest rates.
Kat's in the real estate business. He knows what it does. The higher the interest rates go and you're looking at a 30-year mortgage around 5% now, well, the sales go.
Tracking trends is an understanding of where we are, how we got here, and where we're going.
And as we say, current events form future trends. So I just want to go with some of the current events as we're talking about the housing market.
And to see how we put things together, and you can too, to see where the future is heading.
So this is from today's Wall Street Journal. Home sales slump lists apartments.
Slumping home sales and rising interest rates are brightening the outlook for apartment and home rental stocks.
On Friday, the National Association of Realtors said sales of existing homes in September fell 3.4% from the previous month and 4.1% from a year earlier.
The sudden consecutive monthly decline was steeper than economists had expected and marks the latest in a string of data points that call into question the housing markets momentum.
Remember, this is coming from the Wall Street Journal, and they're always promoting business as better than usual.
And they go on to show how mortgage rates, as I just mentioned, rose this month to about 5%.
The highest level since the death of the foreclosure crisis in 2011.
Weekly mortgage applications tank 7.1% as interest rates surge to a near eight-year high. Applications to refinance a home loan, which are highly sensitive to even the smallest rate moves, fell 9% for the week and went 33.5% lower than a year ago.
One after another.
U.S. home sales, I said this one before, fell 3.4% in September by the most in over two years.
Home sales have now fallen for six straight months. NAR chief economist, Lawrence Young, said the overall decline appeared related to a rise in interest rates. Not appear, they are.
They are related. It's as clear and simple as that. The data shows it.
We cannot take higher interest rates in the country or in the equity markets.
The equity markets were boosted on negative and zero interest rate policy and quantitative easing. As I say, things they never taught you in economics 101 or in graduate school.
And the cheap money flow is slowing down, and so is the global economy.
In economic 911, terror strike is ready to hit.
Housing construction fell last month, continuing a week stretch driven by rising borrowing costs.
Building declined 5.3% in September from the prior month.
So what does this do to housing stocks?
The builders, housing stocks are having their worst year since 2008, and some see even more distress.
And it goes on to say what's going on, why those housing stocks are down.
Then another little story comes out, again, in current events, forming future trends, what to invest in, what not to invest in, what to consider doing and what not to do, how to take advantage of the opportunities and avoid the dangers.
So you read all these things, put your own story together, think for yourself. The student loan debt crisis is about to get worse.
Student loans have seen almost 157% in cumulative growth over the last 11 years.
By comparison, auto loan debt has grown 52% while mortgage and credit card debt actually fell by about 1% according to Bloomberg.
All told, there's a whopping 1.5 trillion in student loans.
All right, debt levels going up, interest rates are going up, you're getting out of school with all this debt, you think you're going to buy a house, you'd be lucky to rent an apartment.
But you saw those numbers, you know what they are. You got millennials, like 33% of them, living with mommy and daddy because they can't afford to move out.
Because it's been a multinational takeover. Big zone everything.
The new laws of the place, Robson, Patten and Axe, Germany had to trust that, they prevented the big zone from becoming too big. So now you get out of college, you get a job on the multinational plantation in slave landia and be happy about it.
Times have changed. The 1% keeps getting bigger and bigger. Middle class has fallen nearly 10% since 1980. That's a big, big drop.
And remember, you go back way back when I was a young man, weren't that many women in the workforce? There used to be things called, you know, stay-at-home mothers.
What happened is now you have more people in the workforce, men and women, working. And that becomes family, median income when it was only one person that had that family, median income.
So it's even a lot worse because now you have two wage earners that are just bringing it into middle class when one used to do it before.
So the rich are getting rich and everybody else is getting a lot poorer. So again, these are very volatile times, guns, gold and a getaway plan.
Because when people lose everything and have nothing left to lose, they lose it. And you're going to see them losing it a lot more, all around the world.
Yeah, we're going to talk about it a little more when we come back. How about all those people coming from south of the border, down Mexico way, up into USA?
Why do you think they'll leave? This is just the beginning. When we talk more about it, come back in a few minutes.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now. Info awards is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them? Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground. And I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success. But if you will simply realize how epic this is, and understand how real this fight is, and why we've been made the main target, and if you financially support us, and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
InfoWars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags. We'll win. We have huge sales, InfoWars.com right now. And we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you, despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce, and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros the Global is going to win. This is InfoWars Darker Tower. We're your support. I'm counting on you.
We all know that the outside toxins in the water is a serious health issue. InfoWars is proud to sell incredible filters, but it's almost impossible to keep up with every faucet, shower, and sink in your home.
That's why we're bringing you something to provide clean water for your whole house with one system. The Pro Pure Whole House Water Filtration System is an advanced, four-stage, compact filtration system that will provide water filtration for your entire home, removing 220-plus contaminants from your water.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family. With its broad-spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to InfoWarsStore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the Pro Pure Whole House Filtration System today.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and live in a free society. Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try AlphaPower, exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your AlphaPower today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try AlphaPower today.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients. Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits. This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high quality bone broth, one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds, ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments, while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root, chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you. Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Hey, thanks for tuning in to Alex Jones and of course thank you Alex and all the people at InfoWars for having me on and being a host on the show.
You know, when I talk about InfoWars products, this is in hype I'm talking about. I mean it with all my heart and everybody that knows me, I don't do BS. Nobody could pay me to say anything unless it's the truth.
So when I talk about 50% off on all InfoWarsLife Super Sale with free shipping, think of it. Life Super Sale.
Remember what I said before, current events form future trends. What we do is we cover those current events to show where they're going and what they mean.
Well, this is from Tuesday, October 23, 2018, The Wall Street Journal.
Widespread recalls jolt food industry. More than a dozen companies have recalled millions of pounds of potentially contaminated food in recent days in a new challenge for producers facing heightened scrutiny of the U.S. food supply.
They're not facing higher scrutiny. People are getting sick by the thousands eating crap food.
Highly processed, pesticide laden, junked up with every chemical you can imagine, antibiotics, throw it on there. What companies are they allowing? Remember what I said.
What you are is a slave in slave land here working for the multinationals. The bigs have gobbled up everything, producing millions of pounds or tons when you put it all together of food and sending it out there from the whole foods to the Walmots.
One after another, you see more and more contamination. That's why these products are so important.
To help you build your immune system. And I don't say these as empty words.
First book I worked on, back in the 1980s, natural healing. That's right, a Warner book. Oh, I also have an honorary doctor to law from the National University of Health Sciences. All the work I've done in complementary and integrative medicine.
So when you see a story like this, and you understand the reality of it, I'm not hyping for you to buy these products. I'm suggesting you do those products to improve your health.
This is a story that just came out. It's like almost a joke. No kidding. The CNN. You can protect yourself from cancer by eating organic. A new study suggests those who frequently eat organic foods lower their overall risk of developing cancer.
The study published Monday in J. A. M. A. internal medicine finds. Specifically, those who primarily eat organic foods were more likely to ward off non Hodgkin lymphoma and post menopausal breast cancer, compared to those who rarely were never ate organic foods.
Like organic foods is. Oh, wow. Oh, you mean it grows naturally? Do you mean that they're better than when they put all those pesticides in all those different things on them and genetically modified? We need more proof.
Look what's going on out there. Look what society looks like. You know, they're saying they say that pigs can't fly. Yeah, you've been to the airport lately. The obesity rates in this country from little kids to adults.
Look at the crap everybody's eating. Look at the junk mass produced. And it goes back to buying local. Buy local. Oh, yeah, that sounds good. Hey, how about buy local grow local? How about local manufacturing? Why can't we put this all together?
How about buy American? One company after another merging and merging, controlling more and more. And all these people going out and buying all this prepared stuff. You know what they have to do to keep this stuff looking fresh?
Anybody that has a garden, soon as you cut your lettuce or a rugala. Five minutes stuff starts wilting.
But we'll keep it fresh. Yeah, we've got these chemicals that'll kill you. But keep that looking live.
So anyway, support those products. And again, it all ties together because that's our process global nomic, making connections between different fields before we took the break. We're talking about jobs and income.
And then that caravan coming up. Isn't that a nice name for it? The thousands of people trying to come up from south of the border into America. What country would tolerate this? And do you know why they're coming?
Because they can't find work and their countries are in turmoil. High levels of crime, low levels of employment. Think about it. Imagine packing up everything you own and putting it on your back and taking your kids and trying to risk yourself into coming into America.
That's how bad it is. A top trend. Putting you ahead of the curve on this one. The 2019 is going to be human waves. This is just the beginning. It's all tied together. We have an economic 9 11 terror strike.
It's not only about the stock markets. It's not only about housing, it's global. Social geopolitical unrest is going to continue to escalate as global economies decline.
And how I feel about migrants coming into the country. Hey, you want to come in? Here's the deal. Open up your house. That's right. Take them in. Pay for their education. Pay for their health care. Yeah.
Pay for their food. Housing. Be a sport. Want to come in? The reason we had a big flood of migrants coming into the United States back at the turn of the other century.
The late 1800s, early 1900s. They were building America. We're not building anymore. We're going backwards. We don't need more people. We can't take care of the ones we have.
When you look at the real unemployment rate and labor force participation rate back to 1960s levels, you can't take in more. But hey, if you want to be a sport about it, bring them in into your home,
clothe them, feed them, give them shelter, give them health care, and give them education. This is a trend that's going to continue again worldwide as the economic 9-11 terrorist strike
keeps taking different shots at different levels of not only the economy, but geopolitically and socially. This is just the beginning. They can't stop them from coming.
They're flooding around the world. The crisis you have over there in Europe. People flooding out of Africa. Oh, I forgot. Before Obama and Hillary Clinton, Samantha Power and Susan Rice,
saw Kozi and Cameron decided to do away with Gaddafi. He warned that that refugee crisis and migrant crisis would happen. He was stopping it from happening. But when he went, it skyrocketed.
So stay tuned to the news. Consider subscribing to the Trends Journal. It's TrendsJournal.com. The only place you'll read history before it happens.
And please support Infowars. I read to you the dangers that are going on with the food supply and how these products can help you. So thanks for having me. See you the next time.
