Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
How do you get somebody to accept slavery? You make them love it. You make it a fad, you make it trendy, you make it cool.
I remember reading the work of Aldous Huxley's brother Julian Huxley that ran the United Nations,
a futurist program of eugenics in several of the books he wrote, and he said in the future,
we'll make the sex indistinguishable. It'll be done in the laboratory.
We would have completely broken up the family. We'll take children at birth like they're eggs taken from a hen,
and we'll have people living in tiny coffin-sized apartments inside bubble-domed cities
so that we can control and micromanage every facet of their lives, and that'll just be the upper class.
I broke that down in my film, my seminal film a decade ago, Endgame, blueprint for global enslavement. It's free online.
Here is the London Independent today. Google to create its own neighborhood with weather management systems and flexible buildings.
When you actually look at the models of it, it's not a classic Homer Simpson-style dome over the city out of sci-fi.
It's buildings all self-contained with corridors to the other buildings and is the equivalent of a controlled habitat dome city.
Because of all the GMO destroying our immune systems, you'll have to live in these soon or die.
Just like peanut allergies kill thousands every year, this will, normal pollen will kill you dead in a hammer.
That's all part of the designed operation taking place.
Notice, I told you this was all going to be announced, and I told you that Gardasil was killing people in the trials,
and I told folks that diet soda with aspartame makes you get fatter and is an excitotoxin. I had brain surgeons on.
Just everything we've laid out and that fluoride lowers IQ, but it doesn't matter.
They'll just have folks come out with news articles saying it's a mental illness to question government authority and to believe that there's conspiracies.
And then people that I even know personally tweak this out as the proof there's nothing nefarious going on in the world.
No, we just have false flags carried out by our government that have been declassified.
And so we've got a lot of people that just can't handle the truth out there. They can't deal with it. They can't face it.
They don't know what to do. People that are informed, people that are involved, people that don't know how the world really works,
they see it as threatening. So not just the dumbed-down mass of the public, but a lot of pseudo-intellectuals, they hate it because it makes them feel stupid.
Instead of hearing us warn them and being accurate and breaking the JFK news about Trump to release the information this Friday,
instead of admitting we're credible, they have to say we're not because they don't care about being free.
They just care about being delusional and feeling like they're part of the power structure. Just like we told you in January of last year
that Manafort did business with the same Ukrainian companies that John Podesta and his brother both did deals with,
and that Uranium-1 was an actual illegal deal with the Russian government and the Clintons, and they were paid tens of millions of dollars.
And that the entire Russia gate thing was a smoke screen to divert off the fact that they've been caught red-handed.
Well, now all of that is broken just as we said it would.
Oh, and we said Trump was being spied on by Obama. That's all been declassified now.
I mean, it's just crazy to have a memory and to remember all this and to know what's coming and to know what's happening.
And to see people, oh, I want biometrics on my car. It's cool. You know, only the elite models have it or, oh, I want to live in a 200 square foot apartment
and pay five times what I would per square foot because it's so cool. I'm in the bubble with a bunch of other losers that think they got the winning lottery ticket when they're really schmucks.
And then meanwhile, the new Democratic Party or leftist global party platform is kill all the white people.
Got a stack of news on that today. Meanwhile, the men taking classes to unlearn toxic masculinity.
Yeah, learn how to be a total cuck. Teach the women assertiveness training. Teach the men how to be cucks.
Then the men wonder why none of the women want them. It's all planned out just like they said they would.
The end of the family, the end of humanity. There's a lot of so-called pseudo tough guy males that go along with this thinking they're part of the winning team.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival shield X2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of survival shield X2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com.
Google has announced the Zeitgeist UN movements plan to force us into self-contained bubble cities.
This was called for by Julian Huxley, the head of the UNESCO program in 1947 to force us into artificial environments and coffin size apartments to basically end normal human activity through controlled zones.
You may have seen the film THX1138, George Lucas' first big hit with Robert Duvall.
That film is based on the vision of the Thabian Socialist Society in London, England and on the plans of Julian Huxley.
That's how they were able to write Brave New World in 32 predicting much of what's already happened because that was the agenda.
And I've got to say, they've built about 80% of where they plan to get us.
And so this is how they're inserting us into the matrix like grid. Here is my film from 10 years ago predicting this. Here's part of the intro.
With the family and even the individual itself nearing extinction. Close to 80% of the Earth's population has been eliminated.
The remnants of a once free humanity are forced to live within highly controlled, compact, prison-like cities.
Travel is highly restricted. Superhighways connect the mega cities and keep the population from entering into unauthorized zones.
No human activity is private. AI supercomputers chronicle and categorize every action.
A prison planet dominated by a ruthless gang of control freaks whose power can never be challenged.
This is the vision of the global elite, their goal.
A program of total dehumanization where the science of tyranny is lost.
A worldwide control grid designed to ensure the overlords monopoly of power forever.
Our species will be condemned to this nightmare future unless the masses are awakened to the New World Order master plan and mobilized to defeat it.
Elected by a secretive group, the Georgia Guidestones are a testament to the elite's plan for a world religion, global laws, with a global court and army to enforce it.
And set in stone, it is written that the population never rise above 500 million.
In this film you will learn how our world is truly governed.
You will see how highly secret around table groups interlock to form a global intelligence network.
This group has been steering planetary affairs for hundreds of years.
Now in the final stage, they prepare for open world government.
A goal tyrants throughout history have lost it after.
Dr. Michael Kaufman is a published ecologist specializing in ecosystem research, forest ecology and ecosystem.
That is part of the intro to the three hour film that I'm proud to say has been seen more than 50 million times online for free.
You might want to go watch it.
That's just a shot from YouTube of your TV viewer.
It's on some of our channels on prisonplanet.tv, NHD.
We do sell the DVD with expanded extras at m4store.com if you would like to view the film and have it in your library.
The reason I raise that is every day the science and technology news is more and more wild.
And Google is already beginning to start one of these neighborhoods in Austin, Texas out by the old Robert Mueller airport.
And first they incentivize you to be part of it.
Google to create its own neighborhood with weather management systems and flexible buildings.
When you actually look at the maps they've put out of these, they are contained cities.
And they are contained glass structures that then have corridors to the other buildings.
And are 21st century versions of the dumb cities that were imagined on planets like Mars.
But the globalist goal is to make life so untenable outside of the controlled megacities and so dangerous that you never even venture outside of them.
That is the goals to keep you in the environment, build everything like it's a giant time square where you're bombarded by the artificial virtual reality proto-matrix system.
You go from sitting around the table talking to grandma and grandpa and your dad and your mom and your cousin and your brother and people when they came to visit.
And reading books.
To sitting around eating dinner around the radio.
Sitting around the television eating dinner.
And now everyone has their own computer at the dinner table.
Now you're wearing goggles, now you've got eye pieces, now you've got brain chips.
Now the television has absorbed you.
Everything you're doing is being tracked.
I would tell people this 20 years ago, because it was all public then, but it was in white papers, they would say you're insane, the NSA doesn't exist.
The Council on Foreign Relations doesn't exist.
The Federal Reserve is federal, they would tell you.
Now in-game is 10 years old.
And I knew that if we expose the emergence in the final phase of world government, where it emerges and comes out in the open.
That it's so authoritarian, so unelected, so outrageous, and the whole thing counted on stealth.
That if we simply spoke out against them and simply took action.
That there would be no way that they would ever be able to win.
Unless they completely went to the next level and just used bio weapons on the population.
And went ahead and just wiped everybody out.
So we're dealing with a very, very sinister group of globalists, but they're not going to try to carry all this out.
If they know you're awake, it'll be too dangerous.
They'll never get away with the final phases.
And that's why this is so life and death.
Elon Musk is worried about people who talk of AI gods.
I cover that in in-game, how the globalists believe they are these AI gods.
They're going to be taking over the planet.
We're going to be insignificant and their plan is to make us obsolete and simply get rid of us.
Everything I told you in in-game is now admitted.
Oh, but the CIA in the 60s, I'm going to cover this history later, they developed the term conspiracy theory for pseudo-intellectuals
that get hurt by learned men and women who get upset by true gravitas, true historical research, true grass.
And so it's just something for pseudo-intellectuals and cowards to just throw out there and, oh, there's a new study out.
Conspiracy theorists have a fundamental cognitive problem to say scientists and then they've got extreme examples of flat earthers
and folks that, you know, see goblins or, you know, dragons and clouds and think they're real.
And they use that extreme to then say everyone that sees patterns is idiots.
And it's all imaginary because they don't want you studying TPP.
Just 10 years ago when they were first setting up TPP, I would cover it and they would have news articles saying Jones is lying
and claiming there's a thing called the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
They would say Lou Dobbs was crazy. He got fired. They said it didn't exist.
They said the North American Union didn't exist, even though we had all the documents.
Bush signed it with the Sente Fox and Paul Martin in 2005 in Baylor, Texas.
But seeing a pseudo-intellectual just says, oh, that's Alex Jones. We don't get celebrated for being right.
No, all the pseudo-intellectuals make fun of us. We're going to come back from break and get into massive censorship.
The next level is here. A lot of people are going along with the thing and they won't be censored. You're next.
We're going to play one of the censored videos. Paul watched this video that was blocked and removed,
but they don't want you to see in the next segment.
But before we do that, ladies and gentlemen, just briefly, we're running some of the biggest specials ever and they are ending.
It's ending today. It will end today.
Brain Force Plus, 20% more, great Neutropic, highest quality, leading competitor, $60-70.
It's always a great deal at $39. It's $19.96 right now. That's going to end today.
We have Anthroplex, the amazing stamina, libido, you name it, amazing pill.
It's the dry formula. It's organic of like supermobile vitality. It is half off right now.
Unbelievable. Other leading brands are $50 to $70.
Again, it's $19.97. You cannot beat the quality and the price in FullWarsLife.com.
All of other specials right now, so be sure and check those out. We'll be right back.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is Freedom From Insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatment may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
877-886-3653 GoBerkey.com
Feel the thrill only at SlingBow.com
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee.
And it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
We'll be supporting a free press.
All the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com
It's amazing, infowarslife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves.
So don't think before what I'm doing, I want to thank you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Bologna Lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos,
you're fighting the tip of the spear.
Visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the info war.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
While the globalist social engineer asked to fight with each other over race or religion or where we're from,
they are building a breakaway civilization, a technocracy.
Google is announcing plans to build bubble cities.
As we accelerate into the prison planet agenda, Elon Musk is, he's worried about people who talk of AI gods.
The universe shouldn't exist.
Scientists say after finding bizarre behavior of anti-matter confirming other top researchers saying there's an outside force
holding and containing the universe together.
Everything we've been laying out for two decades on target.
Because this was already known.
They're now announcing the human animal Chimeras.
They're now announcing the fact that infant mortality is exploding.
They're now announcing that cancer is exploding.
It's all engineered and they believe you will evolve to accept your destruction.
That you will evolve into accepting your servitude.
I was told that once by a top globalist off record.
He said, Alex, you think people will adapt and overcome this.
You should join us.
That's why you actually are aware of it.
The public will adapt lazily to the new system and they'll celebrate with little jogs and runs.
Their family that died of cancer.
They'll look for the cure but never ask why they're all dying.
And we'll give them the little charities and the little runs, the little events they'll do to learn and have nostalgia
for all those that died around them.
Then they'll go live in their little bubble cities.
It'll be trendy.
The zeitgeist said it was cool.
The UN said it was cool.
The New York Times said it was cool.
And now Google's going to give it to you.
And you're going to live like the Japanese do by the millions in apartments that are less than 60 square feet.
Oh, you think 250 square foot zoned in in New York and Austin, other areas is small.
You're going to live in literal coffins that come out of the wall and then go back in and you're going to love it.
And they're going to tell you in just another generation that it was a conspiracy theory that people ever lived in houses.
Or if there were ever mommies and daddies or that mothers ever gave milk or that women ever gave birth vaginally.
They are now teaching in the major social planning textbooks.
I've got one on screen right now that you will only get meat once a year.
And where you work and what you do will be controlled by central computers in bubble cities.
This is seven years ago being taught in the UK to school children.
And if you don't like it, you're going to live in freedom ghettos.
It's all been planned out.
You're like, hey, you got that from the movie.
You got that from the books, Hunger Games.
No, they got that from the reality of what they're building.
Then they popularize it. It's called predictive programming.
But remember, we're the fake news.
We told you Trump was going to win.
We're the fake news. We told you last week Trump was going to release the JFK documents.
And the next day he said he would, just like we said because we talked to him.
Because we're the fake news.
Now, when you're the fake news, when you're the counterfeit, you say the real thing is the bad guy.
Just like we exposed the Russian collusion of the Podestas and Hillary a year and a half ago.
So they turned it around and had hearings in Congress saying we were.
But now the story's up on newswars.com, prisonplanet.com and infowars.com.
Photos of police beating Catalan's fake news.
Spanish Foreign Minister says.
Show people a screenshot watching on TV.
Look at that.
We've got hours of police beating women, bloody beating men,
attacking families with children, pepper spraying people.
I mean, the footage we're showing isn't even the hardcore stuff.
I mean, there is footage of them just beating the living daylights out of women, men and children.
This is the light stuff here.
I mean, yeah, they're slapping them.
They're hitting them.
They're throwing them downstairs.
They're beating women, grabbing them by the hair.
They're choking women.
But that's okay.
They're grabbing people by their hair, dragging them out.
That's all right.
How dare you try to vote?
Which they did 80 plus percent to pull out.
Now they have martial law there.
It's okay.
Well, there's a woman getting thrown down the stairs because the French government and the US government
and the Spanish government, all of them have been siding with the central Spanish government.
Oh, they supported Kosovo breaking away when there was an Islamic invasion out of Albania.
That was an actual invasion.
Oh, they said all countries, subgroups have a right to split off.
Oh, and now they say that, no, no, no.
Eastern Ukraine doesn't have a right to split away.
That was part of Russia for 500 years.
That's where Russia started, was in the Ukraine.
So there you go, ladies and gentlemen.
But okay, I'm sorry, we got caught being fake news again.
If you're a radio listener, there's no footage of women and men and children being beaten up and drunk by their hair and attacked them.
There weren't thousands of arrests and there weren't hundreds of people hurt and their fingers broken.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
It's all fake because the government said so.
Just like MSNBC and CNN.
Back on September 11th last year, 13 months ago.
Remember what they said?
They said it's a lot on the Internet.
Hillary did not fall down.
Hillary did not fall down.
No.
She only stumbled and then they show the first part of her stumbling but not her falling on her face and being loaded as the Secret Service said,
like a side of beef into the black ambulance that we first told you about a month before and said watch,
she's having convulsions every 45 minutes.
You see, they said on the news, oh, she didn't fall.
See, Alex Jones is a liar.
She only stumbled on the curb.
And now we have the Spanish Foreign Minister coming out and saying it's all made up.
It never happened.
It never happened.
You're a conspiracy theorist.
You can tweet out this article.
Conspiracy theorists have a fundamental cognitive problem.
Say scientist and feel superior if you're controlled by all this brainwashing and want to be delusional.
Just say we're liars.
Just say we're wrong.
Just say it doesn't exist.
And Twitter and Facebook and Google will make it easy for you because Julian Assange tweeted out an image at the U.S. soccer team playing over there in Spain.
I guess the Spanish people chanted. They chanted lock her up.
They also chanted Trump.
You can hear him saying, Trump, Trump, Trump.
And then lock her up.
Lock her up in English and then in Spanish.
And they said it's sensitive.
It's hateful.
And they banned the video.
We have that coming up.
Yes.
They're saying we're with you, America.
Lock her up.
Lock her up.
They're also chants of Trump heard.
Lock her up.
Lock her up in Spanish.
And then they repeated later in English.
This is banned video because you can't have a couple hundred thousand people in a giant stadium in solidarity saying lock her up.
Spain wants out of the EU.
Everybody wants out of the EU.
They know we're breaking out of the globalist.
Russia is breaking away from the globalist.
The only Russian leadership there is in all this is that Russia in the modern age is breaking away first.
And look, there it is.
If you go to my Twitter, they actually, he retweeted it.
They blocked it and said it was sensitive earlier today.
Please, Trump, lock her up.
Yep.
That's what they said.
Spaniards chant at soccer match between the US and Spain.
Twitter banned the video.
He re-uploaded it.
And coming up, Paul Watson's banned video.
All these professors, all these liberals from the UK to the US are calling for all whites to be killed.
And saying whites are inherently evil.
They're mainly whites saying it.
If you say that's wrong and racist, you are banned.
So they're not just racist.
They're fascist, anti-free speech.
Hey, Daniel Brieman.
Why new manna, storable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong, independent families to endure what's ahead.
And we take this charge seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today.
Call 888-597-0775.
888-597-0775.
Online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com.
www.powerprepper.com.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault.
A miniaturized shotgun.
Utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
$39.95, plus shipping and handling.
Use discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase at bugassalt.com.
Fire your flyswatter and get your bug assault today.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body.
This natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day
whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature,
producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide,
which is the largest particle size used,
and we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
This truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun
and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only
to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had
for our best-selling product, Brainforce.
Now, Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States
that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off.
And I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it already are stocking up.
They know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you
and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's 1996 at infowarslife.com
or simply call toll-free,
888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We've got it, guys.
The next person is coming to you.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
How long can the globalists hold out saying there's no world government
and then it comes out there is?
Or there's no NSA spying that it turns out there is?
Or there's no Hillary Russia connections and then it's
thousands of times worse than any Trump connections.
Just bag men on tarmacs giving him uranium
and the bag man is Robert Mueller,
the guy running the investigation on Trump.
And all they've got is Trump's son trying to find out if Hillary was working for the Russians.
Give the guy a medal. Seriously.
And now the Spanish government comes out and says there was no violence in Catalan.
It's fake news. No women were beaten.
There's hours of women having the snot beaten out of them
and the BBC is running with this like it's true
and the UK and the US and everybody is supporting what the Spanish government's done
saying, well, you don't have a right to split away from countries
but you supported what happened in Kosovo
when that was Muslims invading out of Albania.
In the case of what you've seen in Ukraine
and then what's happened in the east as a part of Russia for 500 years
where Russia started, they have a real claim to secede
and I'm not even backing that. I'm just backing reality.
And then you've got hundreds of thousands at the big Madrid stadium
chanting please Trump lock her up in Spanish and then in English
and then the Spanish government somehow gets Twitter to ban the video.
I mean, ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you
Trump's real approval rating is like 65 points.
These polls are all fake. We've proven it before.
I already covered it yesterday. So what is their response going to be?
Anything viral, anything truthful is going to be shut down.
We're going to play a banned video that YouTube blocked
that had 700,000 views on YouTube, had 3 million views,
3 million views as well on Facebook.
Now, this is the type of video that they're trying to ban.
This is the type of thing that they're trying to stop.
And other things they're going to do is they'll try to flood the internet
with other fake news and hope we pick it up and report it
but then try to discredit it.
But the point is we're not ever trying to do that on purpose
and when we do it, we will tell you about it.
So what we know and what we understand and what we see
beginning to unfold here, ladies and gentlemen,
is the system in total panic right now
trying to censor the true and independent news
as hard as they can because they're losing.
USC professor, this is just today.
Whiteness must be, by any and all means necessary, destroyed.
Has an image of a black woman killing a white person
that is depicted as a pig.
Basically shot in the side of the head.
Professor tweets that white people should commit mass suicide.
This is just today the news.
Professor claims math, algebra, and geometry
promote white privilege.
See, it's a war against science and reality
and a war against language.
The globalists want a permanent underclass
that thinks any information superstitiously is like devil's work.
So joining us is Paul Joseph Watson
to talk about the video he shot
dealing with a prominent feminist on campus in the UK
that has some really ridiculous views that she's entitled to
and we're entitled to counter them.
His video has been blocked on YouTube.
Paul, thanks for joining us.
It's good to have you here, Paul.
What do you make of what's happening?
Well, Alex, this was a video that I made almost four months ago now.
It went viral for YouTube, did really well, got about 700,000 views.
All it was was me responding to a celebrity's opinion.
This is a feminist comedian who got up on YouTube
and claimed, oh, white men in the far right are a bigger terror threat
than Islamic terrorists.
So this is a public figure.
This is not even a private person up on YouTube
making those ridiculous claims.
I did a rebuttal video, of course, completely debunked
and crucified her with the facts.
Now that video is hidden behind a censorship electronic Berlin wall
listed alongside ISIS propaganda and actual neo-Nazi content
because they put it behind this wall, which they introduced, by the way,
a few weeks ago, I warned about it.
We've been warning about it for months.
This is where they're coming.
This is what they're going to do with the ADL,
Policing Thought Crimes on YouTube.
I said this would happen months ago.
As soon as YouTube announced we're going to partner with the ADL,
which thinks that a cartoon frog is a hate symbol
to police speech on YouTube.
Well, what do you think is going to happen?
And Alex, the context of this is key.
One week ago, I put out a tweet saying,
it's no wonder that Lindsay Lohan is defending Harvey Weinstein,
which she did temporarily before backtracking.
She's a Muslim convert, all but.
This is how she treats women.
This is how she thinks women should be treated.
Some left-wing blog wrote an article about it.
ISIS supporters got hold of it.
Literal ISIS supporters.
And I was getting like 10 death threats from ISIS supporters an hour.
Last Saturday, I had to shut off all my messages.
So that's the context.
Islamic State supporters want to kill me.
And YouTube just wants to silence me for criticizing people
who run defense for Islamic terrorism.
So Alex, I guess I should be grateful, right?
You should be.
And now it's reported today that the UK has brought in a record number
of Islamists who they know are terrorists.
And your terrorism chief says you're going to rehabilitate them,
kind of like they've done in Sweden, with the record numbers of bombings.
They admit there's record numbers of Islamic terror.
And the answer is bring more in and be sweet to them.
Oh yeah, totally.
Alex, there was a guy walking around the houses of parliament last year
with an ISIS flag, huge ISIS flag on his back waving it around,
didn't get arrested.
He was let on his way.
And they arrest nine people in the UK a day for mean tweets
and comments on Facebook, mostly about Islam.
So think about that.
They're literally arresting people every day for criticizing Islam.
If you want to walk around the houses of parliament in London,
the center of government with an ISIS flag will just go right ahead.
Absolutely incredible, as he said.
The UK is now the biggest country in terms of allowing ISIS fighters
back into the country.
They fought with the Islamic State.
They've beheaded people.
These people are coming back from Syria and Iraq.
They're just letting them in.
They're not even arresting them.
I mean, they'll start giving them jobs and welfare and housing
next, Alex, like Sweden.
We'll become even worse than Sweden.
So that's the context of how ridiculous this is.
And let's be clear.
Liberals now worldwide, their most popular thing they talk about,
isn't even wealth redistribution now.
It's how they're going to be violent,
how they're going to kill the white people and kill the Christians.
That's why they've merged with ISIS and Al Qaeda.
And they just get more and more radical, more and more insane.
Even the major studies admit the balkanization,
the polarization is just widening a huge gulf by the minute.
Where do you predict this is going to go?
Because the Democratic Party, the Liberal Party worldwide,
its main platform has killed the white people now.
Well, we saw where it was going with James T. Hodgkinson a few months ago.
It's going towards the legitimization of political violence against conservatives.
We've seen it happen.
That's only going to increase.
Meanwhile, you've got, remember the video from a few weeks back
where they mock, hung a white boy in this rap video.
That was allowed on trending on YouTube.
They put it the number three trending video on YouTube.
Oh, but if you've got a video on the Alex Jones channel,
no, we're going to relegate that.
That's not just us claiming it anymore.
They admitted it in the James O'Keeffe video.
It's all admitted.
Oh, but we're going to demonetize controversial content.
Oh, but if Jimmy Kimmel wants to talk about Las Vegas Massacre,
then we'll put that number one trending and it'll have ads plastered all over it.
And let's be clear.
We'll have a million views.
Kimmel have a hundred thousand in the same day.
We're not allowed on the trending.
Then they put him to the top and force feed him to everybody.
And then we have the executive on video admitting they do it.
Exactly.
And right from the beginning, this whole adpocalypse moral panic,
the same companies that contrived that moral panic, these big corporations and said,
well, we don't want our ads on all this hate speech on YouTube were the same ones
plastering CNN with ads.
They had five minute blocks, Alex, during their live coverage of the Las Vegas Massacre,
five minutes of news, five minutes of ads in that order.
It's all selectively enforced.
It's all incredible.
Let's talk about where this goes because we've seen more censorship the last six months.
We saw the previous 10.
It's clearly logarithmically exponentially increasing.
Where do you see this adpocalypse going on the other side with Paul Watson?
I'm Alex Jones, newswars.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
We have thousands of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the
rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
It is amazing.
InfoWarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left.
It's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless.
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win.
We're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing.
I want to thank you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Labe t-shirts and you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear again.
Visit InfoWarsLife.com today and commit to helping the Info War.
This is a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, Super Metal Vitality and so many
others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed
for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products.
And this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest quality lab
standard.
That means it's clean.
That means it's pure.
And rest secured, you're fighting the tip of the spear in the InfoWars.
That's InfoWarsLife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I'm your host Alex Jones, Paul Watson's riding shotgun with us.
We've got a lot of amazing folks on the broadcast today.
Candace Owens, Red Pill Black is going to be in studio with us coming up the next hour.
Cole McCaffery is also going to be on.
St. John Hunt, the son of E. Howard Hunt, who ran the Kennedy assassination operation.
He did the deathbed confession.
It's also in his diary.
And of course, we told you last week that the president was planning this coming Friday
in three days to release the JFK files.
And of course, the next morning, he said just that.
The media said we were wrong on Friday that we'd made it up.
Ladies and gentlemen, we've got about 99% accuracy.
Occasionally, we pick up stories that turn out to not be true.
And when we do, we report on it.
It is true that Spain has arrested thousands of people and blocked independence
and declared civil emergency, basically martial law.
And it is true that their foreign ministers come out and said it's fake news
that no one was beaten up.
No one was assaulted.
None of it happened.
You talk about arrogance.
That's like Baghdad, Bob, when U.S. forces were five miles outside Baghdad
and explosions are going off behind him saying, the Americans are in Kuwait.
We have defeated them.
Everything I did put out because it looked like a Sanchez account
and had been censored by Twitter was that footage in Spain of them chanting
lock her up was a parody account.
Well, I sure wish that was true, but it does get chanted here at events.
Folks were in the T-shirts.
So that is art imitating life.
So that is a mistake we made and we have just told you about it.
The difference between us and CNN is we don't fake locations.
We don't lie to you.
We don't give you this info on purpose.
We don't support political violence either.
We're going from censoring now and intensifying to outright violence,
state violence, individual violence.
What are they building towards?
Is this radicalization because they're losing and so it's a natural occurrence?
But I see big money.
Soros going from a half a billion a year funding Civil War in America to 18 billion.
He just went all in.
What is going on with that, Paul?
Well, Soros is on a war footing, Alex.
That's why you went all in because they're beginning to lose the culture war,
which is what we're seeing in Hollywood.
They're starting to freak out.
Today you've got this big left-wing boycott organization against more of Breitbart's advertisers
and the hedge fund that is funding Breitbart and a lot of associated projects.
So now we see the split.
We see people taking sides.
The big money on the right is also now coming down fast
with the hedge funds funding people on the right.
That's why George Soros went all in.
And YouTube's a perfect example.
Paul, let me just be clear.
I haven't done it, but we have had big money offered to fully finance everything.
And the thing is, I'd rather finance it with the listeners buying products and doing it ourselves.
But, you know, I'm tempted just because they're not going to control what I say.
I've seen the contracts.
I can't believe I've been offered just unbelievable amounts of money and total control
because this is a giant war.
And you know what?
I might just take the money.
Paul, what do you think?
I think you should, Alex.
I mean, we're really at a point where we need to take sides now.
And with YouTube, that's really emphasized by the fact that a few months ago,
the New York Times put out the bat signal, which was YouTube is a safe space for the right,
which was like my tongue in cheek comment.
So that's immediately when all this censorship started because they started freaking out.
They admit that you heralded it and that free speech had to be destroyed.
I mean, they actually said, see, Watson's right.
And he's more popular than all of us combined.
So let's shut him up.
I mean, what a bunch of authoritarian loser jokes.
Don't they get the Streisand effect?
Exactly.
That's the whole point.
And I just retweeted the video that I uploaded to your Facebook, Alex earlier today with
this video that's been censored on Facebook.
It's hidden comments, views, thumbs up all removed.
You can't even view it if you're not signed in.
It's not going to be shared.
It's not going to be recommended.
So go and get that Facebook, which I just retweeted and share that.
What a shame, Alex.
If this gets 10, 20 million views, Streisand effect, they never understand it.
I'll give you another one.
Well, first Shia LaBeouf a few months ago, his people, because I made a video saying
that he was in a bunch of crappy movies, tried to get that video removed.
YouTube didn't, to their credit, they didn't even consider the complaint, but now JK Rowling
has filed a privacy complaint against one of my videos because I used publicly available
pictures that were in newspapers of her mansions and said, if you love Syrian refugees so much,
why don't you take any in?
You've got 18 spare bedrooms in this one mansion alone.
She's filed a privacy complaint against that video and another video where I simply call
her vile for her lie that Trump ignored that disabled boy in a wheelchair back a couple
of months ago.
So that video has not even got anything to do with her privacy.
She's trying to take that down.
These celebrities are really triggered, Alex, and it's another example of how we're winning
in the culture war.
By the way, Paul, I want to play that video describing for radio listeners in the next
segment.
What was the name of your video where you show the actual minute clip where he goes out of
his way to go to the little boy, gives him more time than anybody else in the room combined,
and then later goes back to him, but they just cut the part out or the boys reaching out
towards him and say, look, Trump ignored him.
This is the same thing they do when world leaders, you know, reach for her hand first.
His wife's hand.
Such deception.
What was the name of that video?
I want to play that since they're trying to censor it.
It was J.K.
Rowling is a vile piece of bleep.
And I don't think there was even any swearing in it, but that's what it was called.
Okay, because I want to show, have they blocked that video like the others or are they just
about to do it?
No.
The funny thing is, I'm not going to draw much attention to it even though I've just
talked about it because that video is still monetized and the privacy complaint I only just
found out about was a month ago.
So it looks like they may not do anything about that, but it shows you how nervous they
are.
They've done something about this one.
It's gone.
It's basically dead now.
Nobody can watch it unless they're signed in.
And then Alex, we come back to, oh, YouTube's a private company.
It can do what it wants.
No.
Google's a monopoly.
You know, if my water company doesn't like my opinions and wants to shut off my water
supply, no, they can't do that.
We've come to the point now where Google basically is the internet.
It needs to be regulated like a telecommunications company to defend free speech.
It's like they can't cut off your phone service if they don't like your conversation with
someone.
And we're at that point now.
This is brutal shocking censorship and so many people I even know are quietly going
along with it and now virtue signaling, you know, tweeting stuff out about conspiracy
theorists are crazy, even though I know these very individuals are just as awake as I am
because they want to start hedging their bets and siding with the power structure so they
can keep their careers going.
That's how you lose everything.
You give in to classic authoritarianism.
You lose everything, idiots.
What are people's problems?
Where are their instincts, Paul?
They think they're going to team with the winning side.
It's not going to happen because this is not just affecting political videos, right?
A channel, an entire channel just got deleted where they reenact fun historical medieval
weapons.
That got completely wiped, the entire channel, because they said, oh, terrorists might learn
from this.
Meanwhile, you know, on Twitter.
What they want is anybody independent like SPF Russian or anybody that's got hundreds
of millions of views a month.
They want it shut down.
That's why they approach PewDiePie.
They said, work with us.
Let us buy you out.
We'll leave you on YouTube with your 18 billion views.
If you don't, we're going to shut you down.
He didn't let them shut him down.
Now they're trying to completely destroy him.
I mean, that's what they do.
It's Hollywood gangsters, just like the wife of Weinstein.
They would threaten people that didn't buy her $5,000 clothing line.
They would tell stars, you're going to buy the entire clothing line of my wife, or I'm
going to have you blackballed.
These are nothing but knuckle dragging thugs.
And they, the left can violate their rules and their terms of agreement all day long.
You had a tweet last week over 200,000 retweets calling on John Hinckley, Jr. to a similar
assassinate Trump.
It wasn't until we put an article about it, the next day, over 24 hours later, that it
even got removed.
It went viral.
This comedian that I criticized in this video was on Twitter before she posted out and left
Twitter because of all the harassment, because she made a dumb opinion and got some flack
for it.
Whoop-de-doo.
She was on Twitter in July, Alex, saying that she wanted people to, quote, continue
effing him up, referring to me, which is a direct violation of Twitter's targets.
And now we've got Maxine Waters saying, take the president out.
She said, I'll take him out tonight.
It's absolutely incredible.
They get away with it every day.
I mean, I don't even talk about the death threats anymore on Twitter, but that one in
particular, over 200,000 retweets before they even considered taking it down.
It's one rule for them, another for everybody else.
Paul, I'll do five more minutes with us ahead of Red Pill Black joining us.
I know you really first saw her on YouTube.
She was already big, but you really helped push her out there in the open.
They've really been attacking her since she's been on Fox News and the rest of it.
She's coming up here in a few minutes, but I want to come back after this quick break
and just ask you a few other questions about Trump, the economy, these wars, where you
see all this going.
Before we go any further, we have a limited time sale of one of our, it is our best-selling
product.
Paul loves it.
Roger Stone loves it.
That's Brainforce.
You notice it's not even on the front page anymore of infowarstore.com because the special
is supposed to be gone.
It will end today, 50% off, 20% more now in each bottle.
You're last day to get Brainforce Plus, 50% off.
It's a great deal at $39.
It's $19.96.
We have the colloidal silver, silver bullet for $9.95, 50% off.
We have the amazing anthroplex that's basically the organic powder form of the wet form, super
male vitality, 50% off.
Never done that.
I don't want people to experience how great it is.
Sign up for auto shipment, additional 10% off, canceling time, free shipping on all
orders of $50 or more, infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com, or triple-aid 2533139.
And winner's sign.
Got to have that in the winner, 50% off as well.
We'll be right back.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system, but right now, we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's
harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now, with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Let's come back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose.
It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at infowarstore.com,
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, deat-free herbal bug spray, concentrated
peppermint mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo, and long-lasting natural
deodorant.
Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA
made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
We feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new Emmerich's Essentials line of organic
products.
That's infowarstore.com.
You know, we know they proposed communist Chinese-style censorship.
That was their words seven, eight years ago in Australia.
We know they've brought some of it into Canada.
But man, to see them trying to bully and attack and threaten to kill everybody and then we
just nobly resist them with facts and information and their answer is censorous.
And then we have the internal documents.
We ought to play that intro coming in and then play a video of our guest, where Project
Veritas has got the undercover cameras and then they're like, the number one thing is
shut down Alex Jones and then full wars and it's because folks, they know Paul routinely
has videos with 20 million views and all the time I'll see one with like 35 million views
and it'll just be gone the next day.
And that means, because if a video gets 35 million views on a couple of days, that means
just going to get 200, 300 million.
It'll be one of the all time videos ever.
Well, they're not going to let that happen.
So they're just shutting it all down.
And that's why this is so important, Paul.
We've got four minutes left.
Other key intel.
Yeah.
I mean, it boils down to the fact that the left has no argument.
They're getting completely crucified.
Even on Twitter now, I'm starting to see it shift, which was a big left wing echo chamber
because again, they have no argument calling everyone a Nazi doesn't work anymore.
How many times do we have to tell them this?
I mean, perhaps we shouldn't because it's such a losing.
My ancestors fought the Nazis.
Their ancestors all got bombed by them.
What planet are they on with this Nazi crud?
And then the left is literally everywhere saying they're going to kill whites and it's
mainly whites saying it.
Total hysteria, Alex.
And that's emphasized no more than the issue I made a video about yesterday, which is on
the anniversary of the election.
They're all planning to go out and have these screaming temper tantrums where they literally
have giant public hissy fits.
And you've got a new video.
You've got a new video before it censored.
How do folks find it?
What's the name?
Yeah, that's a screaming helplessly at the sky.
That's what it's called because that's what their events called.
And again, Alex, by the way, they thought we were faking this after the election when
we got footage in DC of people going.
But now literally they officially are doing it.
And it's interesting because it came out of Sweden.
They were the first ones to do it.
The liberal basket.
It comes to fit.
Yeah.
It was literally like that scene in network, although they were doing it for more righteous
reasons where they all lean out on their balconies and just scream, Sweden did it right after
the election.
There's this crazy video, which I put in that one where they're just all just screaming
incoherently out of their apartment block windows.
But I mean, the fact is they don't have an argument.
So they always resort to censorship and they have no principles.
So they're perfectly adept at doing that, whereas generally speaking, the right doesn't
and the right is open to everybody having an opinion.
The left is vicious and underhanded.
They don't care about that.
The reason this video is gone or it's censored or hidden is a massive outrage mob flagged
it on YouTube.
And if their policies are that fragile where anybody can just organize on a forum and get
a video taken down, then there's something seriously wrong with their policy, Alex.
And it's all targeting either conservative political opinion or just like generic medieval
weapons videos and channels like that is completely failed.
It's embarrassing.
It's ridiculous.
Well, they're targeting, I even saw sites where people have cats, just any complaint
gets rid of it because if it's viral and they don't control it and it's not political, if
you don't virtue signal that anybody that thinks the NSA spying on you is a cook and
there's no world government and fluoride is good for you.
If you don't virtue signal, they take away your podcast.
Yeah, every video I upload now is automatically demonetized.
There's no review.
No, it's demonetized.
And, you know, we can survive, but that obviously disincentivizes independent creators from
creating their own.
I'm proud of libertarians.
I'm proud of the common sense community.
The reality based community.
I'm proud of libertarians.
I don't really call myself a conservative, I'm just a patriot, common sense guy.
The intimidation's only made everyone make more videos and get more aggressive, but also
start side channels, attack on their main platforms, intensify the attack, redouble
it, but also create new platforms, new websites like drudges shed and attack their attack
on multi platforms.
That's the key ball.
That's the key.
And the key is to be on the battlefield.
People say, I'll just just start your own YouTube.
No, it would be a tiny echo chamber.
We need to get in their face and be out there on the battlefield.
Surprisingly enough, Facebook doesn't really send to videos.
The only sense of like offensive words.
Introduce.
Introduce.
Red pill blacks.
Do some more time.
I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get
high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at info or short.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Customers have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to info wars store.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto
ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at info wars
life.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship.
Win win win at info wars life.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
I know that these are legitimate news organizations and if at that point somebody decides they're
going to scroll past that and go find Alex Jones, well if they were looking for him,
it's being like that even.
It's not my answer, threat to this country.
This is a guy on the radio.
His name is Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones for example.
It's time to stop submitting and this charity.
It's time to realize that we're being enslaved.
I heard that on Alex Jones.
Info wars went even further.
Info wars, it's a radio.
Info wars, it's a radio.
Info wars, it's a radio.
Info wars, it's a radio.
Info wars, it's a radio.
Info wars, it's a radio.
Info wars went even further Info wars, it's a radio, hosted by Alex Jones.
We are in an information war and we are losing that war.
Nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great man.
Info wars.com.
Info wars comes to mind.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
I can make a resiyoruz with my tiredly reported information from info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Eminem plus a pea-ditty solution to NFL protesting. My name is Candace Owens and you are watching my
vlog series The Myth of the Coon. Man, life comes at you fast Hollywood. It's like one minute
you're up there singing and tap dancing mocking everyone from your moral high ground and the next
minute BAM! The world discovers that you've been covering up for a serial rapist.
America voted for a misogynist said every actor and actress everywhere just after they had got
finished smooching up to Harvey Weinstein. We know celebrities this is different if we've
learned one thing from your undying support of Woody Allen and the Clintons it's that rape is
totally fine so long as it's financed by globalists. Thank you Hillary for being a constant beacon of
strength, hope and determination for me and millions of other young women. You've been a role model
and inspiration and the voice of reason and uncertain times. Sniffle, the point is that I was
really hoping that Bill Clinton, a rapist, would be in the White House. You taught us that woman
can be raped so long as it's by your husband. She said get that son of a bitch off the field
holding my breath out for a musical number on the horrible actions of Harvey Weinstein.
Also holding my breath for a newly organized woman's march with 2.0 pussy hat designs.
Okay can I at least get a Kimmel cry? Come on Jimmy you cried for Cecil the Lion. You can at least
squeeze one out for Weinstein victims. Thanks Jimbo. And speaking of men who disrespect women and are
somehow celebrated in Hollywood have you heard Eminem's new diss track? Personally as a former
fan I was a little disappointed. After years of hearing about how you want to rape and kill your
ex-wife and even your mom calling Trump and Steve Bannon racist felt a little PG like Eminem on a
diet, sugar-free shady. In fact the only people that should be offended by Eminem's diss track is
CNN because plagiarism is a no-no. Racism in religions. Racism, racism. If you want to see the full
video it's got about three minutes left it's powerful it's gone viral. It's Harvey Weinstein
Eminem and why the left can't stop losing by Candace Owens known as Red Pill Black on Twitter
and on YouTube. And she's been censored, she's been blocked, she's gone through a lot but fought
back and they've had to back off. They just want to wear us out and get us to quit. I'm going to let
Paul eject out of here. He's got a lot of articles and things to write and things to do on Twitter
at Prison Planet. You can follow yours truly at RealAlex Jones and it's key to do that. As we get
censored sign up for the free newsletter at infowars.com. So videos and articles that are being
censored particularly can be sent directly to you. That is so critical and it's absolutely free
infowars.com. But Candace I want you to tell about your story first because you were already viral
before Paul kind of you know got you on his show now even all over Fox News. I've seen you everywhere
just doing an amazing job at Paul. Introducing how the left goes around intimidating YouTube
personalities that they see as successful bullying them into joining their cult. Just like when
young college students get to college they say get in here to the dorm. The racists are out there.
The KKK is on campus. Let us indoctrinate you before you go outdoors. They're burning crosses.
They did this in a cyber way to her. Introduce Candace Owens for folks.
Oh I mean Alex there's nothing more dangerous to the left than a young well-educated intelligent
black conservative woman. Nothing more. It's like kryptonite to them which is why they came after
her immediately after she started getting a lot of attention you know back a couple of months ago
also now with Candace. There's a big hit campaign against her which is taking something she did
like over a year ago this social autopsy website and saying that that's what she's now planning
even though that was before her whole red pill moment. Total ignorance. They don't even know
where she came from. They haven't even watched a single interview of hers obviously. So now
that again they're trying to hit her on that. So whatever this young lady's doing she's definitely
putting the fright into it. I'll tell you what they're doing. They just want to confuse everything
to get her off balance and think she needs to respond to it. She just needs to respond once
she's done and move forward with how they are losing and how they are pathetic. Paul Watson
thank you so much for joining us my friend and thank you for bringing this young lady to my
attention. Thank you Paul. All right thanks guys take care. There he goes. Wow thanks for coming
into town. I'm so happy to be here. Great to have you. You're even more impressive in person. It's
wonderful to have you. Where should you start in the few months we got to break? I think you
should recap what the feminist cult tried to do to you in your own words. They just thought basically
you're a woman. You're reportedly supposedly a minority and then you so you belong to them.
Right absolutely. So long story short I was creating I consider myself a Democrat and a liberal
about a year and a half ago as Trump was kind of rising up. I was trying to build a product
called social autopsy which Paul just mentioned and essentially I thought I was creating something
that was going to help stomp out bullying. My passion behind it was well intended but it was
totally naive and not something that now I know that I shouldn't have done and while I was doing
that product I was contacted by these you know self-proclaimed feminists and they basically
tried to take me out. The same woman that we're saying that they were being attacked
by anonymous trolls and the internet were telling me that they didn't want to figure out who these
anonymous trolls were and long story short I figured out that these girls were harassing
themselves and it was all a lie and that there was no movement of white male conservatives
that were stalking and harassing these girls and when I made that statement the left media
came after me and tried to smear me. I was literally force fed the red pill which is why
I can call myself red pill black. We had to get rid of the comments being hosted on our own servers
five years ago because they kept sending a secret service in the FBI here people making threats we
use discus now and but before we did that and we've done some tests before just to recreate it
you can see the same bot from the same place saying racist white stuff and then racist black stuff
and it's the same people doing it to create I mean it'll be an article particularly about unity
or something good happening or a black guy you know saving flood victims or something that are white
and that's when they come in to create the disunity and then you know it's literally them
stirring it up and starting it then some other real races may come in and join in but they're
literally engineering it and it's in the WikiLeaks they do that right so here they are running false
flags against themselves and then you were saying running them against you right to go oh look see
you're under attack honey come join us yeah and what they told me was that I was being attacked the
second I said I'm not pulling my project that's crazy they told me that white men anonymous white
men were gonna come after me and all of a sudden all of these uh screen names started popping up it
was very obvious you know like alex at support trump dot you know dot com and what they really
didn't want was you running a system scanning who the bullies were right exactly that would have
gotten them in trouble so um I instantly was right pulled I was intelligent enough obviously to
understand what was happening and it was just a crazy thing to go through to think that everyone
that you thought you were against you were actually for and it happened just in time it was just as
trump was saying that the media was fake and I was like he's telling the truth one of the least
racist places you'll be is at a real tea party or a trump rally there's still some races there on
both sides but I mean it's just the experience and now that people broke them through that wall
and the media said tea parties races don't go to it as more minorities actually go they're finding
out all the love and that's what's panicking the globe right and it has been unbelievable I
have never seen more love and more kindness I gave a speech last night at Texas State University to
their young conservatives then when I meet other conservatives and I show up and I speak to them
they're awesome we're gonna be back we're wedding we're on the march the empire is on the run
propure water filters most trusted most tested right now you can save 25 percent on the propure
nomad gravity system visit and authorize propure dealer for details it's p-r-o-p-u-r katie armor
dot com is your one-stop shop for the highest quality body armor period why would you go anywhere
else go to katie armor dot com and get your body armor today while you still can go to katie armor
dot com that c-a-t-i armor dot com in an emergency you need a fire now but what if the wood is wet
no problem for insta fire our non-toxic fire starter packs lights wet wood floats and can even burn
on water or in any weather sustains winds up to 30 miles per hour and each pouch weighs only 1.75
ounces need an emergency or camp stove get the insta fire inferno stove that boils 20 ounces of
water in under three minutes with controllable heat and temp from 425 to 1500 degrees free shipping
go to insta fire dot com and use discount code radio 30 at the three times for 30 off your order
insta fire fire in an instant dr caroline dean wants you to have a free chapter of her new book
the magnesium miracle second edition and it's available at mag miracle dot com in your free
chapter dr caroline dean explains how magnesium is essential to support the structure and function
and overall health of your body your free chapter is your guide to learn how to support your heart
bone metabolic lung and mental health with this powerful mineral the magnesium miracle second
edition is available on amazon but right now get a free chapter at mag miracle dot com spell mag
miracle dot com water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's
the best for you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water
the burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency get to go burky dot com we're call eight seven seven eight eight six
three six five three eight seven seven eight eight six three six five three go burky dot com
men give your body the support it needs with info wars life prostiguard it's time to start
assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance info wars life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas that you can use on a daily
basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend the prostiguard
formula does just that with this mixture of plant based nutrients and antioxidants that help give
your body total support it's a hand selected blend of saw palmetto lycopene plant sterols zinc
vitamin d3 selenium and copper prostiguard is something that the men on the info wars crew
take every day and from our research it's something that men should really be adding to their daily
regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels now is the time to start naturally
supporting your body get prostiguard on your side today exclusively at info wars life dot com
that's info wars life dot com now ladies and gentlemen we're running the biggest special
we've ever had for our best-selling product brain force now brain force plus there's 20% more
in each bottle and we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in
the united states we've been able to get it for less so i'm offering the first time ever 50% off
and i thought i could offer this for maybe a month i'm going to have to stop this special
within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already
you're stocking up they know how great it is a whole bunch of organic natural healthy known
neutropics and if you want good clean focused energy then brain forces for you and you're
supporting the broadcast at the same time it's a good deal at $39 it's 1996 at info wars life
dot com or simply call toll free triple eight two five three three one three nine you're listening
defending the republic from enemies born and domestic it's alex john meet kandace owens
the new face of the toxic right that's what the face of pedophilia coming out of the closet
salon magazine they've been competing with the new york times with dueling articles about
hey pedophiles are nice people leave them alone well the folks that promote pedophilia that you
know grabbing your kid i guess out of the backyard or whatever i guess knocking on the front door
demanding you know they get to go out with them sweden wants to legalize that i've got articles
here today so it's belgium uh you're a bad person because you're not in their cult but isn't it a
badge of honor but then you're telling me notice even though you have videos of millions of views
that's the top thing on google google used to put up whatever got the most hits on top they admit now
conservatives libertarians they discriminate against us and they put only the vilest lies
by pedophile apology publications up there about us but again a badge of honor and that's why google
is gonna get its butt sued off by the federal government for antitrust very very soon so get
ready yeah absolutely it was crazy to see it's the number one hit i've done so many things and
they ran this article and everything in it is a lie obviously but that's to be expected and at the
end of the day and i think that totally serves a conservative movement saying that i have urging
everybody to vote republican that's a lie i'm not a republican i'm not a registered republican they
needed but do a little bit of research to determine that everything in there um was just false but they
are trying to get black people not to listen to me um it's not going to work obviously i mean
what was the process like for you because there are real liberals that mean well right i used to be
more you know just solid libertarians so i didn't like the republicans i didn't like the democrats
either i knew they were bad but now the democrats have just gone completely insane i mean is that
what got you to awaken or was it just the fact that you caught them in a false flag i caught them
in a false flag and you can't just deny what's sitting in front of you and they tried to lie
about me they tried to smear me because i was saying hey these guys these gamers are telling the truth
these girls are harassing themselves it didn't happen um so but see most people would just get
into the victimology that i'm being given victim status okay i'm your victim and then you work for
them right no let's be clear there is nothing to be gained by being a victim this race to the
bottom has got to stop and i don't think people have understood that yet there's no medal of honor
you get there's no job you get it does not affect your bottom line to be a victim unless you're
being financed like these girls were and they you get to run 501c three charities for hillary clinton
but you know that's uh and if folks would just be optimistic because when i was like 12 years old
and kind of a punk i'd say dad why does everybody love you at stores and restaurants and people like
stop their cars in traffic and like hey who are you what are you doing i mean literally when
i was a kid like women would jump out of cars one over my dad and i'd say what's going on he'd say
i've got a good attitude and i've got energy and and i and people see that and that's what
trump talks about is positivity right and just being positive the economy came back right
that's exactly right and i think that there is this new hope and there is this optimism that's
surging right now and it's definitely happening in this conservative movement you you just feel
this sort of brotherhood and sisterhood of people that are tired of being lied to
and are willing to rush to the front lines i don't care slunk run as many hippies as on me
as they'd like to i don't care i'm not going anywhere it really is incredible to
sit back and witness this they're getting more and more panicked what do you think they're
going to do next i mean i've got a stack of news just today with black professors white
professors you name it saying we've got to kill all the white people i mean it is just
just be it's pure it's beyond kkk i mean it's like what is going on here right it's absolutely
insane i don't see how they could possibly up the ante i was giving a speech last night as i said
and i said to the kids like you know they've already exhausted all of the vocabulary they're
going to have to start inserting words in front of it you know uber racist super sexist you know
extra massaging unalloyed racist right yeah i mean that's what tom brokaw called me and then
didn't play a club you know i'm going to say hillary you know was best buddies with a kkk
wizard i'm going to show you a news article right right they just say things and they hope that people
that aren't thinking for themselves are just going to believe whatever they say so i'm the new face
of the toxic right i don't even know what that means um and they didn't contact me they didn't
ask any questions but that's what google is there to produce results for people that are looking
for something and people no longer think for themselves you know they look for an instant
hit and they try to learn as much as they can in in uh one or two headlines and that is sort of the
battle that we're facing but people are waking up man time is ticking you know what has this process
been like for you since you woke up since they basically ran over you in a false flag operation
that you sir mentally survived and didn't fall under their victimology control system how long
did that happen um that happened that happened last year it happened in april of last years and
i kind of needed to take a break um i was not doing anything at all wasn't producing any videos
i needed to just kind of digest everything i mean you wake up one day and everything that you
thought was real was a lie i felt like i was being kicked down the rabbit hole and um it was
incredibly psychologically challenging to go through to be honest and then a year later i said
i'm in this i'm jumping in this and i'm going to be involved and i'm going to speak up because
everything trump is saying is true about the media and i flipped open my laptop and two videos
went viral and it's because i was tapping into a subconscious people are tired and now you've
reached hundreds of millions of people and now i've seen them demonize you on control corporate
media but i've seen you on fox news yeah and so now i mean let me guess you walk down the street
do you run into more fans than haters oh absolutely and especially i there's such a
movement happening even when i was in LA i was shocked to see that there's this young
conservative movement that is happening and they're so optimistic and they're so happy and
of course i do get some attractors and some haters that is to be expected i named my series
the myth of the coon fully understating and that was going to be the first thing that they called
me um and all i can do is encourage people to be smart and be vigilant because the lies are
going to keep coming we saw that yesterday which paul mentioned they said that i was like a government
show and that i was secretly going to go back and start to dox children complete life application
but that is what they're trying to do term conservative well that's all they've got right
kale has 20 times the lead that is allowable under california law an apple has about four times
and some of our products don't pass california standards out of 40 products two of them we
know don't and and they're listed as food items so they're exempt because if you've got a big
enough serving size uh you know it's going to have a level not allowable in california because
they passed the law so they can sue anybody right and they've given exemptions to people inside
california they just pay a five hundred dollar fine but everybody else they come up with for
millions of dollars but then the media runs with these headlines alex jones caught high levels of
lead just just totally made up total lie they don't tell you it's prop 65 they don't tell you it's
people in california are basically exempt i mean it's just they they sit there praying on their
readers right i mean look people know the mainstream media they are hit men okay they go out there
certain people they are paid to go out there certain people and they're paid to keep certain
people in power and unfortunately with the rise of donald trump they've lost and they keep on
losing i'm i fully believe what cven said that if he runs again in 2020 his he's going to win by a
way way wider margin because people are waking up day by day i get so many inboxes on facebook
flooded by black people thank you so much i knew something was up i'm feeling inspired i feel
encouraged um to come out and say what i believe in you know i knew this was shady on campus and
i feel like i'm being lied to so it is happening the movement has started it is not going to stop
when you talk about a reeducation camp in 2010 it leaked and they they said no it's a real document
that jones got how did he get it and the army's response was a few months later just to release it
there was a field manual for internment and it talks about social security numbers how to process
americans so it's for here and overseas and it says we're going to put people in reeducation camps
that don't go with the collectivist model during the collapse because they were planning an engineer
collapse under hillard wow and that's the authoritarian communist term is reeducation camp
but when you look at a reeducation camp it's where you get a bunch of people in the sports
stadium those that submit get taken care of those that don't get beat up and attacked it's a peer
pressure thing and it's about getting you to denounce yourself as bad getting you to also
rat other people out well that's what colleges high schools and businesses are now right is basically
malice style reeducation camps and people get off the bus you pay to send them to college
they get off and they they're scared and they bring them in the professors bring them in
scare the hell out of them especially minorities and induct them into a cult right then and they
were doing that cyber wise with you but you got wise to it and now are a major titan against them
we'll be back i'm alex shones with red pill black the answer to being in control of your own
health care is freedom from insurance become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together
to share in each other's medical expenses individual share amounts begin at one hundred seven dollars
a month and 347 for families choose from three health sharing programs holistic treatments may
be eligible for sharing see guidelines discount programs available for dental vision and pharmacy
go to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org it's a no-brainer a big burky
water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride
pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right
and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in gravity
water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter systems
using code gcm call or click 187799 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's one eight seven
seven nine nine b e r k e y i'm very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function
our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at info wars life dot com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've
been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public so please
take advantage of it today support your own health and support the info war refresh your breath with
immerx essentials organic mouthwash our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate
the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste immerx essentials
mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol chemicals or other artificial
ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes the pure organic plant extracts are concentrated
containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath
this antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula you will need to dilute one part mouthwash to
10 bucks water immerx essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine
it is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores go organic today
with immerx essentials visit info wars store dot com to learn more that's info wars store dot com
you know someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to
america it'll come in the name of liberalism you're a white man you're a white man
welcome to the war room the latest expansion in info wars live broadcasting we are live weekdays
from three to six p.m. central at info wars dot com slash so and this youtube channel right here
that you've landed on please subscribe to the channel for updates and notifications you can
follow us on twitter at war room show we are going to have the most powerful guests the most powerful
host will he be hearing from alex jones regularly as well as taking your phone calls the liberal
establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long the silent majority is no longer silent
this is the war room
you're listening to the alex jones show
he aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side you're listening to alex jones
ladies and gentlemen we've got a major security breach of the white house
red alert red alert a major security breach at the capital ladies and gentlemen
why are you talking about tax cuts when we should be talking about treason sir why is
congress talking about tax cuts when they should be talking about treason this fire with the agents
of the russian government to steal an elected president trump is treason trump is treason
yes ladies and gentlemen there's the major security breach at the capital trump is treason
and you've got mitch mcconnell going along with him of course i don't really see it as a security
breach anybody can carry in a bunch of little two by three russian flags and then throw them at
trump and that's what the left does they're always about personal shame they're always about pure
pressure it's always very middle school or very elementary school this happens to me in seattle
new york downtown austin we could go out you know tonight and walk around this would happen
most people walk up shake our hands appreciate what we're doing black white hispanic old young
trendy you name it but every 20th person will scream f u russian spy you're going to prison
you're gonna get it i mean we've talked about it people seen it in live feeds there it is
protesters throws flags at trump security breach in the capital drudge report dot com we're
tweeted the video out at real alex jones pandas owens is here with us but i talk about this all
the time and people seen our live videos this is all they've got what are they going to do as it
comes out bombshell podesta worked with the same ukranians as manifold and when it turns out both
podesta brothers got tens of millions of dollars from the russians with hillary to transfer the
iranium something we broke a year and a half ago and and and that they have the russian connections
not us no wonder they did this just like roger stone said a year and a half ago they blamed us for
what they've done right but hypocrisy is is their middle name you know what i mean they don't care
they they can get caught doing the things over and over again and they can be caught right handed
as they have been done over and over again and they don't care they double down on their ignorance
time and time again and honestly it's it's just um it's getting boring at this point but that's
the stunt they just like parents on every channel say russia russia russia russia when when the fbi
former fbi had mewler was the bad man for iranium and in companies getting millions of dollars himself
from the russians you literally have a guy with the russian arm up his rear end puppeting him
he's a sock puppet then claiming the people that aren't are the russian agents right and that's what
they do that is what they do well you know this is going to be all over the news this is going to
be everywhere like proof they yelled at him and said he was a russian and this is what they do to
me it's so pathetic right they said that yesterday about me you know that i'm uh somehow a spy i mean
they turn things they anything that's a threat to them they try to control the narrative that's
because they're the outsiders they're the globalists i'm ranting sorry oh you're right you're absolutely
right they are the globalists and that is exactly true and they're losing power so what we're seeing
is kind of like a psychosis you know and they don't know what to do they're losing power they've
been in power for so long and a new media is emerging and they are not in control of it what
does it mean when a girl can flip over her laptop and get millions of views that it can be circulated
80 million views on facebook dubs in portuguese and in french which means we're not just hitting an
american sentiment it's a worldwide sentiment global being lied to their time is running up it's
it's a great time to be lying i'm personally excited about it and you got Kanye west i don't
care what people think people don't think i like him more than out now that i know he liked trump
that's why they literally grabbed him and threw him for a week in a mental institution when he
started tweeting that he liked trump i am that's we went to visit trump and they threw him in a
mental institution i am the biggest i've always been the biggest supporter of Kanye west not just
because i followed his music and i knew as soon as trump came out i wrote on my facebook page
khan is going to come out supporting trump because all he promotes individualism everything that he
does is against globalists and people didn't understand that moment when he took the trophy
from taylor swift it was actually because she didn't deserve the award and she got it because
they were trying to appease people so oh well they fixed all those awards and that's what he was
saying and now i get it you get it and now i get that i was buying into their propaganda myself
because i don't really pay attention to pop stuff right right and i listened to his music so i
understood what he was saying why am i here if this is all puppetry why am i here why did i show
up we all know she didn't deserve this award and she didn't um and he never went along with her
narrative and he has died on the cross time and time again as an expression um to be able to say
that to be well literally he has no criminal record nothing no mental problems he goes and visits
trump a week later they throw him in a in a mental institution for a week till he's able to get
himself out you know the saddest part to me with how long was he in three four days i think it was
about a week and the saddest part to me was just that the black community he has been so inspiring
for all of us it was sad to see them that easily manipulated and saying oh well you know khani
just must be going crazy because he supports trump no think about it think about why he is
supporting trump think about why he said he's an american it's like they they took the security
clearance away from jack posto but enable intelligence right even though he never talked
about what he was in and that was separate from his political work as a citizen because the president
liked him they said the president tweets his news so he can't be in the in the in the navy
intelligence because you know the president you know the urea that's a foreign power right right
it's it's all insanity and it's getting more insane and i'm just hoping that with my voice
adds to the mix people can start to wake up and it makes me happy that you say yeah i had khani
west wrong because at various times we've all bought into the propaganda you know and that's
why i try to approach things with sympathy when i go and i meet with liberals and i speak to them
i try to say listen i was one of you i was one of you a year and a half ago so um and you were
elements of you weren't you know it's everyone buys into their narrative at some point but
we are waking up we are stronger together and as long as we have each other's backs the globalists
are going to lose i feel very strongly about that i agree with you and sure we can call
ourselves conservative you can call yourself whatever you want there's so much bad in the
republican party the blue blood established with the same ones that gave us obama care
the mitch mcconnell's the paul ryan's i mean we're not i know i'm not endorsing those people
i'm endorsing the real libertarian americana takeover of the republican party and i hope that
happens to the democratic party right right and that's something that people are confused about
with me they say oh well since you're speaking out against democrats you must be a republican and
that's not true i'm speaking out against democrats is i'm trying to wake up black people and they are
the ones that are using black people every four years to get their votes and lying to manipulate
black unemployment almost doubled under obama because he just knew he had folks under trump he's
literally actually bringing the factories into those areas getting tax incentives literally
doing it yep mark i know for a fact behind the scenes it's not some tokenism like the media says
trump likes everybody and he likes energy and he is favorite preachers and everybody he personally
hangs out with our black folks right and that's been known forever right when he got all those
in double ac p awards and all the rest of it he used to be friends with al sharpton as soon as he
runs for president though that's all over exactly people don't remember it's like oh he was already
on mbc he had his own show he's doing all these things he was never accused of being a racist
until he ran for president united states if that doesn't tell you that your mind has been hacked
that you suddenly floyd mayweather said that too yeah you know think for yourself that's all i
am promoting and that is what they are so scared of what do i do that's different i think for myself
and i go out and i say to people don't listen to me go think for yourself i don't care what your
thoughts are just make sure they are your own absolutely well you know and again it's not for
me about worshiping trump but when i've been put in the same basket so have you right we've had a
little bit of what trump's gone through so there is that common ground we've been over there is that
kinship and we've experienced the lies we've experienced the humanization we've experienced
a little bit of what he's gone through people always asking why do you think trump won obviously
he won because he when you guys called him rapist racist sexist you had already done it to everybody
in america so nobody cared when you called him that they knew that that was just your trick
and that is what liberals do when they don't want to see something successful and they don't want to
accept a different thought you know because with liberals my big a liking last few years was this
i thought only high-level liberals were called blooded social engineers but now
even mid-level and low-level ones know it's a scam know it's about power and know it's about
manipulation and bullying other people that have consciences that's why the studies show the average
liberal six or seven times more likely to not give the charity but to say they are more likely to
steal i mean the numbers are incredible because it's their fakes trying to manipulate the other
well-meaning people absolutely the worst people that i've ever known in my entire life have all
been self-proclaimed liberals they they put on it's almost putting on a face i'm a good person
because this i stand up for black people i throw a thumbs up their posers their posers i throw i
share a tweet about black lives matter even though i'm completely uneducated about how terrible that
group is but this makes me feel like a good person it's that white guilt we're talking about half of
those liberals in the white guilt and they pretend to care about tons of things they don't even educate
about the things that they're speaking about and they don't know what to do with someone like me who
says no thank you so they just scream you're a racist yeah have you had to scream that in your
face uh no not in my face no one's yelled at me yet i just it's like russian f you russian they run
up with their and you're like whoa dude you know i'm not a russian agent they got screwed you're
going to prison and then they just did that to the president that's what they do yeah yeah i don't
know they'll be right back we're gonna be right back on the other side of this quick break stay
with us i'm alec shone's info wars dot com news wars dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info
wars life dot com to secure your chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists
to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula available vitamin
mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars
life we brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality
and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin
mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are
either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure
and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot
com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out choose to take control of your
chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting
your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of
100 organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced
of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary in order to
produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate
thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com now ladies and gentlemen we're running
the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product brain force now brain force plus
there's 20% more in each bottle and we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic
manufacturer here in the united states we've been able to get it for less so i'm offering for the
first time ever 50% off and i thought i could offer this for maybe a month i'm going to have to stop
this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already
you're stocking up they know how great it is a whole bunch of organic natural healthy known
neutropics and if you want good clean focused energy then brain forces for you and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time it's a good deal at $39 it's 1996 at info wars life dot com
or simply call toll free triple eight two five three three one three nine protect your skin with
spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emrex essentials perfect for face and body this natural unscented
sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection we source
ingredients from nature producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins this natural
lotion contains 21 zinc oxide which is the largest particle size used and we do not use
nano particles the larger the particle the safer it is for your body the organic oils help hydrate
the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most
sensitive skin emrex essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic
products to enhance your life naturally protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emrex
essentials stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit info wars store dot com
and learn more about the new spf 30 sunscreen lotion you're listening to the alex jones show
the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're listening to the alex jones show
cold macaferty 12 year old viral sensation with this ultimatum to the nfl latest video
at 7 million views he's going to be joining us uh seeing in famously went after him for supporting
trump you know saying you're just an ignorant kid i remember so that now that i think about it wow
he's going to be joining us via skype for the first 30 minutes the next hour and then we've got
st john hunt whose father admittedly is the person that they based ethan hunt a mission impossible on
he was a sniper in world war two before the war even got declared in os s operations in china
fighting with japanese and then he went through his whole history of being the head of the plumbers
for nixon he ran the operation to kill kennedy he gave us and george norie his deathbed confession
simultaneously we got the video uh the audio versions what uh they were able to premiere first
but the point is now they're getting ready to go public with the diaries so his son st john hunt
good friend of mine going to be joining us because trump is getting ready on friday to release the
3000 plus pages on the jfk files i predict they're already been uh you'll covered up blacked out uh
but going back to our guest here and and and understanding where where the world is right
now you were making some pretty important points red pill black on twitter uh red pill black on
youtube candace owens uh again as you said 80 plus million views on facebook alone only been
prominent now for less than a year that's why they've got to shut us down because uh brand
and tatum i'm not just bringing him up because he's a black american he's only been going on
the youtube a few months in facebook he's got one video last time i checked his 70 million views
150 million views total i mean and he's a black swat team member and uh in in arizona and quite
frankly a better talk show host than i am i mean i it's just all the new talent is really freaking
people out and it's organically a lot of black folks that want off the globalist plantation
i wanted off it uh to me where would you say we're historically right now it's so interesting i had
actually had a phone call with one of my friends the other day and he said candace i used to grow
up and i remember thinking that alex jones was an absolute conspiracy theorist that he was crazy
and now he's the most relevant thing in the media he's the most relevant person in media and i said
that right there that sentence tells you exactly what's going on it is the death of the old globalist
media and the rise of the new media which is the people's media you know it's the people's media
where they're not being told what to say they're not i didn't come here just on the set nobody
there's no talking points we're just having a conversation it's it's not say this say that
here's what we're going to talk about and that's what people are craving they are craving the truth
and that's we have to keep giving them the only time i say say this is if somebody says it during
the break yeah and then i go you repeat that but exactly we never put words in people's mouth because
we just want the real right that's what folks are looking for all they want they just want honesty
and they've just been duped and lied to and especially the black community they are they
need that you know you want to know what's affecting the black community if you want to have real
conversations and say that black lives matter let's talk about section eight let's talk about
welfare let's talk about these systems that were put in place to keep black people in poverty
let's talk about the democratic stronghold on all of these major inner cities and what's going on in
those cities that they are holding on to these are the conversations we need to have these are
the conversations that i'm going to have and i have no intention of ever shutting up i'm not
scared of anybody that might come out and try to suppress me well what you're doing is just
absolutely beautiful and when i say that it's not just lauding you people like you are the reason i
know we're going to win because there are just thousands of new prominent people that are so
eloquent so smart catching all the stuff i miss and used to you know when i miss stuff i got upset
that i was one of the few people out there now it feels good to know hey other people are getting
it i can actually sometimes kind of not go 100 miles an hour right it's true absolutely people
are starting to get it more and more and you don't even see that now you know you don't even see how
many people are starting to understand that wow this guy that i thought was like totally weird
is actually has been trying to tell us the truth and now people are waking up to the truth everyone's
being red-pilled and i just want to invite people to understand no matter what you said no matter
what you've done there is a place for you in this movement and if you wake up and you last week said
some terrible things about trump i don't care you don't have to delete it i'm welcome to have this
i'm so excited and if folks got sucked into racism on all sides it's just tribalism like
hate the other football team it's stupid there are bad people of every group it doesn't matter
transcend that and then you get real power over the global it's not controlling you just like
martin Luther king said and you look at leftist today it's the opposite of what martin Luther
king and gondy said he said judge people off what they do and what they stand for like i go to a
restaurant because there's good cooking i don't care if they're chinese black white whatever it's
good food and they're nice i'm going there i listen to music whether it's middle eastern or
whether it's jimmy hendrix or whether it's russian or japanese if i like it i like you know some of
the buddhist music i hear i just i wear clothes if i like them i mean you know it's just that's
common sense right absolutely and look you have hit the nail on the head i've been doing a lot of
ran here we got a short segment coming up here to finish up we'll be back on with oan today
and i'd like to take you out to dinner tonight i'll get my wife involved see we can get a baby
shitter technically in because i'd like to take you out and also maybe you know go out on the
street shoot a live video or something let's do it let's and experience the nice folks but also the
mean ones let's absolutely do i think that's something that people need to see and i'm happy
to throw it up on you know my youtube page my twitter page i'm getting a lot of black people
that are craving this i don't know if they watch your show but more and more of them are and it's
important that they do oh yeah i mean you know a lot of the famous black civil rights folks most
of them are dead now you would come on the show back when i was going after bush and you know the
globalists and then they still like like me but you know sometimes they they'd kind of be like
you know i don't know so much and i'm mad because i'm teleprompter free who's the famous civil
rights guy that was a famous comedian who just died this year what's his name he'd been on the
show probably 20 times over the years and uh i forget his name but but you know me he he saw
through the whole deal and it's just crazy to see how far we've come uh but but again the globalist
if you read the wiki leaks they know people are coming together against the offshore mega banks
the true discrimination of the fact that their tax exempt that the rules they pass the laws they pass
they're exempt from the diplomatic community so they say in wiki leaks all we've got now is culture
war and that's the code word for men against women black against white that's what it is
and it doesn't mean when there's an organized group against you out there that you you know
sometimes act that you have to like being a group to protect yourself i'm not saying people that are
in groups are bad it's you have to understand though that that's the most basic tribal form
of humanity and is not the successful form going into the future right we need a tribe based on
ideas and free market and true open free society right and i have to say this to conservatives
i've seen a little bit of this in the movement but we cannot become the democrats we have to
be accepting we can't become an app a party of absolutes you know people may not agree with every
single thing that we're talking about but if they're willing to listen and have the conversation
there's a place for them here and i just want to make sure that we you know keep our eye on the price
and don't become the party of well if you don't think this or that then you can't be considered
a conservative you're allowed to think different thoughts as long as you appreciate that people
can have different thoughts um you're ready to break the globalist cycle that's why i call the
red pill party yeah i mean i mean because like you say red pilled it's not about black it's not
about white it's about red blood red pilled not blue blood right because you've got blue blood
elites in china you got elites in avria elites in latin america they all operate the same way
everybody else pour to control them exactly so it's it's red against blue it is it's a system
of mind control and it is red against blue it's absolutely isn't i'm just happy that i get to be
a part of this and on the forefront of the lines of i'm going to wake up a ton of black people
i mean there's just no shot that they're going to keep doing what they do to us over and over again
well you even got the letters from the racist lbj saying these black folks are out putting
they got their own industries their own hotels i'm not the fitting segregation but what doesn't
kill you makes you stronger lower illegitimacy than the white community in the 1950s and within
decades they totally reversed those numbers and i can't even say what lbj said in the letters that
are publicly confirmed he said i'm going to have those inwards voting democrat for a hundred years
yeah but they don't know that and what you have to understand is that we are taught in school
that the democrats saved us over and over and over again so that indoctrination starts when we are
five years old and in school learning about history and does not stop until you're through with
college so we've got our work ahead of us when you're trying to reverse years and years of misinformation
so and again it's the same victimology and it doesn't mean the victim stuff isn't there
they just teach you that your leg never heals basically they just say oh just you know remember
this and obsess on it and and it just creates in every group out there these basket cases it's just
total mental illness we're going to go to break and come back and get into your vision of the
future then we've got our other guests joining us you're going to be on with Owen shroyer coming up
at three o'clock today in about an hour and uh 15 minutes or so uh so that is uh all coming up
ladies and gentlemen today in about two hours uh before i go any further please support the broadcast
spread the article spread the video spread the links you see them censoring us you see them
blocking us on facebook twitter google you see the heads of youtube uh saying our job is to
shut down almost shown because of the platform folks they're scared of this this flies in the face
of the stereotypes uh they push so when you spread the links by hand when you spread the articles
by hand when you tell people about it it's a revolutionary act and when you buy products
at infowarstore.com uh it's a revolutionary act you get really high quality supplements
silver bullet colloidal silver 50 off anthroplex 50 off we have 50 off winter sun highest quality
vitamin d3 you take under the tongue those are the new specials the the the the special
been running for two weeks must end today that's brain force plus now 20 more 1996 at 39 dollars
it's it's it's better than the leading brands out there that are similar at 1995 we've signed a
ferrato ship 10 off additionally it's a lost leader so please support the broadcast brain
force plus last day infowarstore.com or triple eight two five three three one three nine and we're
selling out of the remaining four variants of trump 2020 limited edition shirts so get those
and help spread the word as well we'll be right back stay with us we've taken thousands of years
of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the
very best systems that god gave us through mother nature to detoxify the body that's why i'm introducing
z shield toxic metal and chemical defense support it's made in the usa it's filled with known compounds
from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war
it is a classical 360 win this is the formula that i personally have been taking for over a year
and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you
can possibly get you want to yourself you want to your family and you owe it to the future of
this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can
be because we need you the remnant of america to reignite those rush fires the next level and to
be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together we're
changing the world now it's time to change our bodies with z shield info wars life dot com
not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it why is this so good
because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most i mean i try to
make sure that i don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but right now
we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives
off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around we have biological
warfare going on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about all this episode there's so many
things that are you have the name in there you have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood
i recommend doing the parasite plans at least twice a year all right well i'm glad we've got
some back in because i'm going back on it today it just came back in yesterday living defense
info wars life dot com and folks you can't lose it's full of stuff that's great for your body
period and you support the broadcast info wars lives dot com thank you doctor group from the
global healing center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product
you're listening to the alex jones show
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny well so does he live
from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
red pill black ladies and gentlemen is the youtube site for now they're trying to ban her
kandace owens is here we have another super youtube star uh joining us coming up the next
segment because i want to celebrate coal or cafferty and others who the establishment is demonizing
because this is the future the people now have a voice the people now all have their own tv
network and it's game over for the arrogant people at msnbc cnn and even fox trying to stop
this revolution has gotten watered down and lost half their ratings don't they get it you're not
going to stop progress i think that they are starting to get it because as you said they're
losing and they keep losing and they can't stop losing and it's an exciting time to be alive and
i encourage everybody out there get your voice out there don't be scared to say whatever you're
thinking uh nobody can stop you well i'm just impressed uh with all the work you're doing and
the fact that you didn't give up when they banned your videos blocked your videos you fought back
they had to restore them so many people quit no no you never quit they're just trying to wear you
out and now there's about to be antitrust hearings trump's appointing a guy to the federal trade
commission that wants to go after google i mean it's on good i'm so excited to hear about google
because they are really doing the most evil work behind the scenes and facebook too they were you
know totally promoting the article if you search for me on facebook that salon hit the new face the
toxic right the new face the toxic right and 20 shares at videos that had a hundred average 100
thousand shares every time just one person puts it on their platform on facebook and that was what
was coming up well google admits their whole algorithm's fake now right yeah they admit it so i mean
you type in vaccine damage you get 20 pages of bs saying that there's no danger in vaccines
when the inserts say they can kill you yeah absolutely and it all just changed the last
year i mean google has extended itself have you heard now they want to force us into bubble
cities no i have not actual bubble cities i don't even know what that means they just zone it where
you get a 200 square foot apartment that's it and then they basically force you into it it's terrifying
everything's everything terrifies me i mean jeff bezos another character that is completely evil
if you're thinking of him buying whole foods upsets me it just they just keep acquiring more and more
and more and more and people have to sit and they have to think deeply about the implications
of these people controlling everything from your food to your media to your google jeff bezos is on
twitter google uh he's whole foods amazon it's just these are things that we have to really think about
to understand the globalist environment and how we can break out of it well i'm excited i'm excited
about taking you and your crew to dinner tonight uh so during the break before we get this guest on
i want to thank you for coming on you're gonna be on with oan today and then go take a rest or
whatever but but tell me what kind of food you want tonight we also got you some the text mix you
wanted so that's in there in the conference room but uh i just really look forward to taking a dinner
and i hope you can be a contributor with info wars i need to get so big hired a bunch of other
folks that want to come on board we're so busy with the news every day yeah that we have trouble
expanding but thanks to the listeners supporting us so we're building quite an organization millie
weaver has an idea uh to start uh you know kind of like the five but but not have it be just five
people but i think five women and i think somebody like you could probably anchor that right yeah
there definitely needs to be a new media and women definitely need to have a platform a true
platform not being told what to say um by producers that have an incentive well i know that's what i
want to watch uh i mean you know i'm a guy and it's not just watching girls because they look nice i
kind of just get sick of guys yeah so it's it's fun to see women's perspectives absolutely because
i don't watch a lot of fox but i do watch some of hanity and some of tucker but i like to you
know morning show tucker's got the best faces yeah yeah he does he does you know i wish all
those folks would come on debate me they won't do it maybe if we give you a show or or your
graciousness doing with us uh then maybe you can get them on maybe it's like less threatening
though i think you're probably more more intellectual than i am um thank you i appreciate that compliment
i'm gonna accept it but i'm not just saying it i mean you're just you just lay it all out so lady
like but also it's good stuff yeah that's what i try to do i try to you know i don't keep it really
pg and i try to keep it honest so thank you so much for supporting me and for having me here
you bet you know i'm also used to seeing you on on a on a camera cam uh but it's just fun to have
you here in person awesome all right folks redpill black on twitter follower there redpill black on
youtube handis owens facebook and instagram the next if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this
powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is
far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed our super high quality
nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals
this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell
tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work
together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super
combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com
these conspiracy theories were first spread by radio talk show host alex jones but to get
the employee at youtube on tape admitting that they do it i mean you must be a threat if they call
you out by name alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex jones alex
jones is a lunatic because i know that these are limited organizations and at that point somebody
decides they're going to scroll past that and go by alex jones well if they were looking for him
let's be about that even that man's threat in this country there's a guy on the radio his name is alex
jones alex jones there's a lot of controversy around this step work about alex jones for example
time to stop submitting and this charity it's time to realize that we're being enslaved i heard that
on alex jones info wars went even further info wars it's a radio show hosted by alex jones we are
in an information war and we are losing that war nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great
info wars dot com uh info wars comes tomorrow info war info war right now the war is the info war
you get you watch info wars i got a chair going looking at widely reported uh information from
info wars info war info wars info wars i want freedom that's what i want and that's what they should want
hello this is hank hill and i'm telling you what you need to listen to alex jones
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
my name is holma cavity and i live in philadelphia today i'm speaking directly to the american
public and the nfl when you see a casket come home from the battlefield with dead american soldiers
and marines in them the american flag drapes their casket this is the only time when you should kneel
for the flag the soldiers who have gone and fought and died for this flag have shown their conviction
by giving their life nfl players say they kneel before our flag to show their conviction
nfl players i present this challenge to you if and when the rules are changed and you're required
to stand for this flag show the same conviction that our soldiers have shown and paid the ultimate
sacrifice for quit otherwise you lack the conviction of the american people who protect
this flag and defend all that it stands for let's see if we'll give up those millions
my name is col McCafferty and i'm a 12 year old boy and i understand national pride why don't you
that's col McCafferty he's been out there for two plus years since trump first announced
he was the first young person at age 10 to come out in support of the president and he's
loved all over the world except by fake news media here in the united states that demonized him
his latest video on the nfl has seven million views on one platform alone he's from philadelphia
col first made waves in may of 2015 at age 10 when he was the first child in the u.s to endorse then
a candidate trump the media has described him as president trump's most voracious supporter
col has been interviewed and written up by basically a republicans out there and you can
find him at facebook at four cols future twitter four cols future youtube four cols future and
instagram at four cols future and he is the michael strange foundation dot org col just spoke
at extortion 17 and was awarded young patriot award and col thank you so much for joining us
here because more and more i want to just celebrate the new wave of resistance to the globalist
but i love the fact when cnn viciously attacked you two years ago it made you only fight harder
you didn't go away with your tail between your legs you realize you were over the target getting
the flank uh and uh now i'm telling you uh you're an example everybody out there you're an example
to my son who's been on air since he was about 12 uh and just for the amazing success you've had
oh thank you mr jones first off thank you for having me on your show today it is an honor to be
here i'm wearing a extortion 17 shirt uh in honor of the michael strange foundation i'm involved with
mr charlie strange and uh and i was just awarded the young patriot award by the way um i saw your
interview with making kelly you got her good you got her good she thought she was going to make a full
of you but you turned it around and you know you proved her to be a liar that was a very smart
thing you did sending up your own uh video recording equipment well let me ask you this well i knew as
soon as she was lying to me and saying that you know that i turned her on and stuff that she was
trying to set me up i wasn't stupid and a lot of folks say oh but wasn't she hot i didn't find her to
be attractive i mean she just was basically a robot or a mummy but let's go back to when
you first went public for trump but nobody else was and the media was building as a joke why did
you do that cold why did i do that yes sir why well i first read donald trump's two books the
art of the deal and the art of the comeback and i learned from those two books that this man was
won billion dollars in the red and our country is 20 trillion dollars in debt and i thought this
is what our nation needs a cutting-edge business sense to get us out of this trillion dollar
debt which will come back to haunt us but uh i i learned from my father he takes great
inspiration from donald trump that he is a hard-working businessman he will follow something
through to the end and that's what our country needs we need politicians that are real that are
going to get things done and we'll see it through the very end obama said he would get troops out
of iraq they're still there this our country needs someone who will uphold their promises
and with trump you can see that's what he's been doing he he tried to get health care
tax breaks passed but these politicians these politicians these horrible politicians both
democrat republicans have been weighing him down i was about to say trump when it comes to the
exuberance of the economy to the border to the military to killing the tpp to getting jobs back
i mean so many good things have happened and they've blocked him on repealing obama care and getting
with tax cuts so far and every major economist admits if they don't get these tax cuts through
and if we don't repeal obama care they're designed to be wet blankets on the economy
to permanently end america's expansion phase when china and india and everybody else are
supposedly the new development zones where the globalists don't have a pesky constitution to
get in their way but have authoritarian and oppressive regimes to work with so this is clearly
the technotronic elite uh trying to destroy the u.s dominance in favor of a communist chinese
dominance and and and president trump isn't out to get the american people i think you know that's
the bottom line i would agree with you there our media has been going after this man for a year now
they've started to ridicule they've treated his family like crap and i can tell you this
this is there's a double standard obama didn't get this you see this is a political mugging and
witch hunt the liberal media in hollywood glorify violence and resistance against our president
but don't threaten to blow up the white house kathy griffin posed a photo holding donald trump's
capitated head this is an american the velocity and direction of the liberal media and is anti
trump that's right and all they're using is peer pressure to make us think he's unpopular
with their fake polls but we know the polls are skewed by at least 15 points so uh they're the ones
destroying themselves they're the ones discrediting themselves singing in is the real walking dead
they know they're zombies they just prop them up as a facade because they don't want to admit
total defeat and now all they can do is pose as mainstream media well they're not even mainstream
media anymore we are the mainstream media in that we're covering what people want and the truth
and the globalists know it coal mccavity stay there we're gonna come right back and talk about
what it's like being 12 years old and being famous since you were 10 now with hundreds of millions
of views out there and do you get me backlash at school or on the streets from folks for standing
up because the left is all about bullying it fully cooked ready to eat bacon i'm talking
thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy some i use some i store some
awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked
fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and served life saving ready to
eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon ships free at fully cooked bacon dot com fully cooked bacon dot
com this is dan pillard you're the irs money you can't pay our tax debts crippling you i've defended
people from the irs for over 30 years i've helped thousands and i can help you too i wrote the book
on irs settlement and i'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case call 834 no tax to
finally get free of irs debt with the irs's new programs there's never been a better time to solve
your problem call 834 no tax that's 800 34 no tax or my website danpillard.com heart disease is on
the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected
by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops poor circulation
and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong hear
how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across america
my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me
now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend
heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using
this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two
months supply today by calling 866 295 5305 that's 866 295 5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866 295 5305 or hbextract.com
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from
high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract
and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper
sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid
speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of
10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take
on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life
dot com we're not just going to have to end to the next week the brain force plus special 50
percent off i'm gonna have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth turmeric
chaga mushroom bee pollen and more concentrate you talk about next level meal replacement
next level compared to whey and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes it's incredible
my son is growing like a weed using it it's bigger than i am already 15 incredible it is
amazing info wars life dot com 50 off caveman but only a few days left it's about to end and folks
the globalist hate it when you do this we're the tip of the spear because we're fearless we're bold
because we understand the stakes are too high the globalist when we're all slaves so don't thank
me for what i'm doing i want to thank you we're all in this together and when you get the great
bolan lobby t-shirts you get the great books and videos you're fighting the tip of the spear
again visit info war store dot com today and commit to helping the info war
you're listening to the alex jones show
cold macaferty is our guest he's been in the political spotlight since he was 10 years old
we're going to be going back to cold here in just a moment to talk about his experiences on the
streets since then and in school but first i told you this was happening a month ago and now it's
confirmed elites moving to sacrifice clinton's just like winstein they realized they failed the
old blue bloods are getting ready to flush polosi the clinton's and of course maxine waters
because they realized it's destroying them but there's a civil war they're hanging on
just like the republican leadership's hanging on so the separation of powers not just the
legislative executive judicial but the separation of powers within parties is keeping them from
setting up their authoritarian dictatorship our founders knew what they were doing they
tied down the power of the state and of strong men and women they don't mean that in strong
in a good way you know like the king rat thugs big article by kit daniels on news wars dot com
and prison planet dot com really really important uh this happened just a few hours ago security
breach at the capitol we had trump there visiting with mitch mcconnell and a guy through five or six
little two by three russian flags screaming treason treason russia when there's nothing except
his son investigating hillary for uranium one with a democrat connected lawyer they sent
that's what they've got and a hundred thousand dollars in facebook ads when you've got hillary
with almost three billion dollars a billion and a half she got herself another billion on top of it
from packs you've got all the media hollywood silicon valley foreign governments the vatican
the eu the communist chinese all against trump and then they claimed that oh the russians came and
ganged up and stole the election when hillary stole at least five states try to steal another six
and of course trump was right about millions of illegals it wasn't 3.3 it was 5.6 that's all
come out harvard confirmed it so again now they're being exposed as the ones with the russian
connections mule are being on the payroll the russian six companies giving uranium deliveries
on the tarmac and i'm not saying the russians are even bad that's what foreign intelligence
agencies do russia isn't in our business one twentieth like china but here's the ridiculous
clip of another you know theater person just all the theater russia russia treason this is what they
do to me when i go to downtown austin to eat dinner or downtown san francisco or anywhere else or
downtown seattle russia nephew russia russia russia this is all they've got so here's the audio and
video treason trump is treason trump is treason why are you talking about tax cuts when you should
be talking about treason sir why is congress talking about tax cuts when they should be talking
about treason that's right that's right we agent talking about agents of government
yeah because you really don't want to cut those taxes for the slaves because if they get their own
money and have their own future then you can't have your thumb on them under my thumb
can we pull up rolling stones under my thumb and maybe a minute before go out with that
listen col you're doing a great job we appreciate you talk about your personal experiences and
what you've gone through kind of sharing in some of the grief some of the targeting that trump's
gone through has that made you stronger or has that made you weaker
uh i was at his rally in bristol front row and i i saw protesters there must have been a hundred of
them outside uh waiting in the parking lot and they were screaming and throwing uh what was it rocks
at some of the people leaving the arena and that was a scary time that's that was when i
first encountered anti-trump uh people i'm going to call them people one was wearing a wig
a funny little hat that said something i understand uh they're basically escapees
from mental institutions but since the 80s they shut the state funded mental institutions loose
so now the main mental institutions democratic party well uh you know i i said a while back
that we have this new cold war where you know the republicans uh they are the new capitalists and
the democrats they are the new communists we're fighting this civil war between them you see
us with all this um party the vision in our congress they can't get anything done but
what i think needs to be done is we need to bridge the gaps we need to do away with all
these stereotypes about the left is crazy and the republicans are a bunch of gun-toting morons
we need to come together to help rebuild our country like i said before we are 20 trillion
dollars in debt we need to find ways to overcome that we need to get rid of this guy in north korea
we need to get troops out of afghanistan and furthermore we need to work with russia instead
of yelling collusion collusion because only one the united states supports russia will
NATO allow them to go into north korea and syria to help the united states defeat isis
and defeat the kim regime we need to ally ourselves with russia well my friend i appreciate
your work and i appreciate your courage just in closing has anybody been mean to you in school
because most of the feedback i get 20 to 1 is positive including you think of classic liberals
they've really woken up this this this revolution is globalisms all over the world it's incontrovertible
we're winning everywhere but you do have to go through some ridicule by the mental patients
have have you gone through any of that in school what no no i've been boxing since i was eight
years old and look i'm not afraid of anyone uh there are these trolls online that follow me
just to say stuff but i i have to tell you this i'm not afraid to get into a fistfight with them
you have done a lot of data all right i look forward to speaking to you very soon cold cold
macavity and it's uh four calls future on facebook twitter youtube instagram you're doing a great
job my friend and your latest videos are amazing uh and to the point and uh again from the mouths
of babes thank you so much cold thank you i'll i'll see you on the 2020 campaign trail i'll be there
to help trump win well he's gonna win an even bigger landslide thank you so much yeah they think
we're under their thumb with their intimidation and garbage but we're not under their thumb
no in fact they're beginning to realize they're under our thumb because we're awake
under my thumb the girl who once had me down under my thumb
the girl who once pushed me around gets down to me
the difference
dog
If you are receiving this transmission, you are in the resistance.
Dr. Carolyn Dean wants you to have a free chapter of her new book, The Magnesium Miracle
Second Edition, and it's available at magmiracle.com.
In your free chapter, Dr. Carolyn Dean explains how magnesium is essential to support the
structure and function and overall health of your body.
Your free chapter is your guide to learn how to support your heart, bone, metabolic, lung
and mental health with this powerful mineral.
The Magnesium Miracle Second Edition is available on Amazon, but right now get a free chapter
at magmiracle.com, spelled M-A-G, Miracle.com.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA Pack technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and serve.
Life-saving, ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super blue fluoride-free products.
InfoWars Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Our super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients, xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at infowarsstore.com,
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, date-free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint
mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo, and long-lasting natural deodorant.
Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA
made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new Emmerich's Essentials line of organic
products.
That's infowarsstore.com
that
in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostagard on your side today, exclusively at InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm Alex Jones, your host.
The reason we're playing that music is E. Howard Hunt is admittedly the guy they based the Ethan Hunt character on Mission Impossible on
and had a famous career as a government sniper in the OSS and the CIA
and was a bench warmer, basically a backup team running a large part of the Kennedy assassination in Neely Plaza in 1963.
He'd been photographed there, he'd been arrested there in the railway car with the weapons, but the police were in on it and dropped it.
And we can show you all that.
The big thing is he ended up doing a deathbed confession on audio and then on video to his son, St. John Hunt.
And we put all those videos out with the late Jim Mars and St. John Hunt online.
St. John Hunt's also a best-selling author.
He recently wrote two books with Roger Stone getting into the Bush crime family and then also the Clinton crime family and the war on women.
Both those books are available at InfowarsStore.com, St. John Hunt.net where you'll find all of his books.
Now, obviously, 91% of people in Gallup polls believe the government killed Kennedy.
The Congressional report said there was more than one shooter.
You never hear about that report, though, and that was more in depth than the Warren Commission.
The reason Mr. Hunt's joining us is very soon he's talking about releasing his father's diary that's even more powerful going back to the time of the Kennedy assassination.
And, of course, he was also one of the top plumbers for what didn't E. Howard Hunt be involved in.
He always believed it was for the country.
But the point is, is that St. John Hunt.net has it all right there and he's going to break it down for us in this segment the next and a little bit the next hour.
And again, Roger Stone's going to be hosting the fourth hour from New York where we have a crew there.
I was going to go to New York to meet with some big Republican bigwigs, but I just, you know, have a lot of work going on here.
So I didn't go, but Roger did go.
There may be some big interviews coming out of that, but I'm going to leave it at that.
Because Roger's a capable reporter for Infowars.
He can do it.
I can sit in to do a man's job.
But again, St. John Hunt joins us.
Great to have you back on, my friend.
It seems just like yesterday we shot those documentaries we put online for the public for free.
That was like, you know, six, seven years ago now.
So good to, good to see your face, my friend.
Yeah, Alex, it has been quite a while, but it doesn't really feel like too long.
I remember.
Yeah, you've, you've been on with us before obviously since then.
We may have to go to telephone with you because the video is fine, but my audio is having issues here.
So in about 10 seconds, if it keeps doing it, we're going to go to phone with that's no big deal.
That just builds the suspense.
What do you make of the big announcement that we broke last week that we're looking to see the president?
Of course, it was confirmed Saturday morning by the president released the 3000 plus pages of the secret CIA files.
Well, no one can can be happier about that than myself.
As you know, according to the documents themselves, they have around 400 pages of documents concerning my father, E. Howard Hunt.
And there's nobody on this planet that would like to know more about what's in those pages than myself.
There, I think there's going to be a lot of, a lot of good information for JFK researchers.
I think that some of that information is going to lead us to, you know, the reason that my mother was killed as she was,
she was threatening to blackmail the White House during the Watergate days and flew to Chicago with Michelle Clark,
who was a CBS reporter and was planning to, to have a press conference in the next day or two where she was going to,
in her own words, blow the White House out of the water.
Now, also, you know, there's going to be a lot of incendiary stuff, I think, in those pages because Deepthroat himself,
quoted by Bob Woodward in his book, said that the contents of the files were political dynamite.
And that was also quoted by Holloman in his book.
James McCleod, one of the Watergate regulars, said that Dorothy Hunt, my mother, told him that she had evidence she was taking to Chicago
that would blow the White House out of the water.
And then, of course, the plane, for those that don't know, coming into what midway airport there in Chicago blew up.
That's correct, yes.
There was more than a suspicious situations going on with that plane landing or crashing, as I should say.
Was your mother just an agent of one helping your father or was she ever in the CIA?
My mother was a contract agent for the CIA.
But prior to that, she was working in OSS in Geneva, Switzerland under, who was the, I can't remember his name, anyways,
he was a CIA chief before Dick Helms.
And so she had a long history of intelligence work and she was semi-retired at the time of Watergate.
But throughout our family life, she had always provided my father with information because she worked at embassies.
And if there was something that needed to be photographed and sent to the CIA from that embassy surreptitiously, then she would be the one to do it.
Of course, you tell the story in one of your books about your dad in like machines inside of a bag tearing it up, throwing it in the pond.
I mean, just all sorts of stuff.
Yeah, there was, matter of fact, part of these files will show some of the pieces that were stolen from my father's safe the day after the Watergate Burgers were arrested.
John Dean had my father's personal and secret safe broken into and the contents removed, some of which were destroyed by then acting FBI chief, El Patrick Gray.
Those were files that my father kept on the meetings and the notes who attended the meetings with regards to the different burglaries and different assignments that the White House had given my father to carry out.
You know, I'm asking the questions here, but you're really the expert growing up the middle of this.
Everything your dad said is just being confirmed.
It dovetails with all the researchers.
What is it like 53 years after the assassination to now see the president about to release these files?
A and B, I'm concerned they've already blacked them out.
It won't be Trump's doing.
I'm concerned like Obama said I'm about to release the 9-11 files, but they were all blacked out.
Right, right, that was a huge disappointment for everyone.
I just hope that it's not going to be more of the same.
Personally, I'm nervous about the files.
I'm certainly excited.
It always helps me to better understand what my father was into and especially during that part of his life.
I know that he was a heavy hitter.
He was the first one in the CIA to suggest that Fidel Castro be assassinated coincident with the Bay of Pigs invasion.
And of course, I know from my conversations with him that he was very involved in the CIA mafia plots against Castro.
He was just a man all over the place.
You know, he was part of the Bay of Pigs invasion, successful Guatemalan coup invasion.
So he was a very serious person in the CIA.
Nixon, in fact, knew my father if it was only lightly because they had met prior to the 70s in Montevideo, Uruguay.
When Nixon was vice president, went on a good will tour.
My father walked over to his table in the luncheon room and complimented Nixon on his various doings as a politician.
And Nixon asked him to sit down and they spent about two hours together.
So Nixon kept an eye on my father throughout my father's career, getting higher and higher in the layers of CIA.
And when Nixon wanted to put together a special investigation group for the White House, my father was the first one that came to his mind.
He said, Howard Hunt, we need to get Howard Hunt.
Now, later on the same tapes, you know, the famous smoking gun tapes where Nixon is ordering the payment of a million dollars to my father to keep his silence.
That ties into your mother's aircraft being blown up.
Just briefly as we go to break here, and we'll come back with more on the documents.
When did you discover, as it's now admitted that your dad was the model of the mission impossible, Ethan Hunt?
That was just a funny little story.
My father told me that, and I thought, you know, he told me one time down in Miami that they had used Ethan Hunt, and I thought that was very respectful of them.
So I think that's great.
It's interesting, and now it's all coming out.
I'll ask you, why did your dad do the deathbed confession on the other side of this break?
We'll be right back with St. John Hunt.
I'm Alex Schoens.
We're not just going to have to end the next week, the Brain Force Plus special 50% off.
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric, chaga, mushroom, bee pollen, and more concentrate.
We talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey, and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible.
My son is growing like a weed using it.
It's bigger than I am already.
15 incredible.
It is amazing.
In FullWarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left.
It's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless.
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win.
We're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing.
I want to thank you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Labe t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the info war.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brain Force.
Now Brain Force Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the
United States that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off.
And I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it already are stocking up.
They know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brain Force is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free,
triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality,
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains
that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money
while you get high quality products and fund the info war, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at infowarsore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarstore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all auto stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alright folks, Alex Jones here broadcasting worldwide. I am your host.
I want to ask St. John Hunt, whose father clearly was one of the main leaders of the operation to kill Kennedy,
and that according to his own deathbed confession as well.
I want to ask him, why did his father support being part of that operation?
Because I know from reading his book and also interviewing him and seeing the confession,
that his father thought it was the right thing to do.
Why did a large faction of the deep state decide to kill John F. Kennedy in 1963 in Dallas?
And is Texas the reason the president's dead?
Because I know they got cold feet in Chicago and in Miami.
Why did Texas get the job done?
Well, I think it's more than evident that JFK was pursuing a line of politics
and engagement with communism that was not appreciated by the military industrial complex.
In other words, Kennedy felt that negotiation and appeasement would win the world
rather than showing strength and using the military.
He had definite ideas on ending the war in Vietnam for one,
which ran directly against what the military industrial complex had in mind.
And they felt that he was a danger to this country in those terms,
that this was not the time to show weakness to the communists.
This was a time to show strength.
And there was a strong movement that LBJ was very much in favor of to remove Kennedy.
Johnson had his own particular reasons.
He knew that he was going to be sacked as vice president in the upcoming elections
and very well indicted for trial and arrest based on his many crimes during his ride.
Exactly. He was a cornered rat.
What about parallels today? Why do you think Trump's agreed to release these
when the last few presidents blocked them?
A, and B, now there's more of a war in the deep state.
It's not as monolithic.
I'm not saying Trump's a choir boy, but clearly the entrenched power structure doesn't like him.
What are your views on Trump and why he's releasing this and what you think of Trump?
Well, I think Trump is releasing these because, first of all, he's a maverick.
When you put him along next to our prior presidents, he's a man that's cut from his own cloth.
He doesn't follow the footsteps of anybody else.
And I think that's one of the strongest reasons why he was elected.
People didn't want more of the same. They didn't want Clinton's name in there.
They didn't want a president that was just going to go along with the same old routine, the same old show.
And that's one of his strongest attributes.
And I think for him to release these files goes along directly with that.
I think, as you said, Alex, prior presidents would have denied this, but Trump's not like them.
He's not going to cout out anybody. He's going to do what he thinks is right.
And thank God, he thinks that this is an important enough issue.
And it certainly is. Let's get it done. Let's get it over with.
Let's look into this and get it out in the open.
If something bad is in there, then let's talk about it. Let's bring it out.
And I like Trump for that.
In the beginning, I wasn't a Trump man or anything, but I favor him because of his individualism.
I think that what's been done to him by the mass media, by the news media, mainstream media, is just abhorrent.
It's an embarrassment. They should be ashamed of themselves.
And this, to me, proves he's the strongest president that we've ever had because for someone to endure this amount of criticism
and false accusations, lie after lie after lie, and still come out doing what he said he would do for the people,
that man is worthy of anybody's vote.
Exactly. You can't help but admire Trump the hell he's gone through.
You can't help it, especially in our own little ways, yourself, myself, yours in some bigger ways in your family history.
You've been through a lot of stuff. You've experienced persecution for telling the truth.
And when you see somebody then get hit with 50 times what we've been hit with and they just get stronger,
you can't help but admire them.
I do, and that's a fact I admire Trump very much.
I'm very grateful that he's going to release these, I hope.
There's still, you know, there's still enough time where certain agencies can, you know, put up a fight.
I think midnight, tomorrow night is the deadline, isn't it, Alex?
Yes, and he was talking about doing it on Friday.
He said if, he said barring new information, but we know he's already met with Pompeo and they told him don't release it.
I just hope that they're not, you know, nothing burglaring us and that they don't, you know, like I said, black it all out.
Right, right. Yeah, that would be a shame.
To me, it would show a huge weakness in Trump, and I don't think he's that kind of person.
No, I agree, but a lot of these documents could have been blacked out 20 years ago. We don't know.
That's true. That's true. I'm nervous about it. I'm very hopeful. I'm excited.
But I also don't want to be too excited to be disappointed if they're lessing what we hope for.
We just have to wait and see.
Well, I've seen two things. You're right. The deadline's like Wednesday, but the news is saying Friday.
Guys, can you research that, the great research crew back there?
Let's try to get a definitive number here in the next five, 10 minutes so we can tell the audience.
Because I've seen both, and that's something I haven't completely nailed down.
But boy, I tell you, St. John, they had such egg on their face. I know you've been talking to Roger a lot.
You co-authored books with him. Two of these great bestsellers that came out during the campaign that may have decided the campaign to a great extent.
The Clintons wore on women in the Bush crime family that gets into all this.
Just sitting back and watching this whole revolution unfold, I mean, the power structure is in so much trouble.
Well, I wonder, Alex, if the power structure is really going to, I mean, how do we know once they release the documents,
how do we know that those are the real original documents?
I mean, they're capable of forging anything in any way, shape, or form, and backstopping it with facts and details and older files.
I mean, that's their business. That's the CIA's business. That's what the FBI does. That's what the Department of Justice does,
is that they lie and they backstop it with their own made-up proof.
So I would be astounded if there's anything in those files that is going to, in a word or so, name that the CIA was involved in the JFK assassination.
I just don't think that will ever come out.
Well, we've got the bombshell file about George Bush and how the FBI director wants to talk to him involved with the whole JFK situation.
We have documents like that, but I agree with you. I think the deathbed confession of your father, both the audio, the video, and the letter,
knowing who he was, knowing he got arrested that day in Dallas is clearly him, knowing his whole background in overthrowing governments and assassinations.
I mean, that is real credibility right there.
That is real credibility. I think that has a lot to be said.
First of all, I've been asked, well, why do you think your father told the truth? Why don't you think he just made something up just to disinformation purposes, let's say?
Well, the answer to that is that if my father wanted to make something up, he clearly would have used the Russians as the agency involved in the assassination of President Kennedy.
He would not have named his own people because he loved the CIA.
He was a lifetime CIA officer, 27 years in the clandestine services and prior to that in the OSS.
So he would never have named CIA, his beloved CIA, as being involved in the death of Kennedy unless it were true.
We're going to go to break, my friend, and come back and get some final comments from you and all this.
And then Roger Stone is taken over from New York City. Amazing.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're carrying both the books that he's co-authored with Roger Stone.
If you haven't read them, they're real history. Plus, you should read them and then donate them to a local college, school, or library to educate others.
Every little bit in the Info War really is moving mountains together, always little things together.
We have giant specials running at infowarstore.com or infowarslife.com that are about to end.
It will end today, Rainforest Plus, the great Neutropic, super high quality.
It's only 1996. It's a great deal at $39, but it's 50% off. That's about to end.
It's not even on the front page of the site anymore. You got to go find it because it's supposed to be gone today, but it's not.
50% off, colloidal silver, rarely do that. Never done this.
50% off, anthroplex for men and women. It's advertised for men, but it's just great for stamina and libido energy.
I certainly love it. It's like the dry form of the supermal vitality. Very strong.
Winter sun, high quality organic, vitamin D3, and it's available there 50% off.
And of course, you don't get your vitamin D3 when you're not getting sun during the winter.
That's why you should take it during the winter and fall and spring months.
Winter sun, highest rated out there by third party sites. Very best. Vitamin D3 out there.
M4warslife.com. We'll be right back with St. John Hunt on the other side.
M4warslife.com. You are the resistance. You fund the info war. You made it all possible. Stay with us.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free milk wash and super charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
Refresh your breath with Emmergs Essentials Organic Mouthwash. Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste.
Emmergs Essentials Mouthwash is non-GMO certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals, or other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Emmergs Essentials Mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine. It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Emmergs Essentials. Visit infowarstore.com to learn more. That's infowarstore.com.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign, and domestic. It's Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide from the Infowars.com studios.
We're going to have Roger Stone taking over the next segment for the hour and then the War Room with Owen Schreuer.
Roger Stone will be back. He co-hosts that and you're going to have St. John Hunt back on for a more extended period.
Maybe even open the phones up or take some Twitter questions.
Again, his father, one of the more famous spies and assassins and a guy that helped overthrow governments and ran major operations reported that he came down to be back up and basically run on the ground, the assassination of Kennedy.
Now, strangely enough, his father had sued a newspaper previously for saying he was the guy and they had photos up in there and had lost that suit.
And the court of law jury said, no, Mr. Hunt, you are the guy. And then later he basically, you know, came clean with it.
His son, St. John Hunt, is with us right now. What about this being a scyop?
Some people are saying the president may not know, just like you said, oh, here's the documents and then it's something else that basically bolsters the official story.
And then we're all here celebrating the release and then it turns out like you were saying, could be doctored and as a setup.
I think that's always a possibility. And I think that's primarily the first thought that one should have in situations like this.
Why trust anything that the CIA or FBI or the other agencies has to have? I mean, why are they all of a sudden allowing the truth of truths to come out now?
They've had 25 years to, you know, to doctor, to erase, to reconfigure any of these documents. And that's a long enough time.
So I think we just have to wait. I think we're all biting our nails here, waiting for the release.
And I think it's people like yourself, Alex, and other JFK assassination researchers, people that use the Freedom of Information Act to sue the government for files and for information.
And I think it's going to be left up to you guys to really sort through this and discover if this is just a smoke screen again or if these are in fact the real files that they have been promising to release for 25 years.
And let's expand on that. The smoking gun is your father's deathbed confessions on audio and video.
The smoking gun in all of this is that information and that 90 plus percent of the American people now know the truth and are not buying the official story.
We've already won this battle. So I'll be surprised if this isn't a Psyop in the next few days coming out. Let me get your take on that briefly.
And then Jim Mars. Wow. He left us this year. One of the foremost JFK investigators.
Jim Mars is just an amazing man, and we have a lot to be grateful and thankful for what Jim has spent his life doing.
As a reporter, he covered the JFK assassination in Dallas and then continued bringing us the truth, an author of many, many books.
And certainly he's a well-known figure amongst certain circles, assassination researchers and people like that.
My father's testimony that that confession to me was the smoking gun.
Never before had there been an actual CIA official and operatives and official to come forward and name names and describe what the circumstances were about my father's personal involvement in the JFK assassination.
And I felt he did this just before he died because he wasn't ashamed of it.
First of all, I think I convinced him that notoriety for him would be good. He was proud of what he did.
He felt Kennedy was a danger to this country, and he stood by that till the very end.
All right. St. John Hunt. Amazing, my friend. Thank you so much. St. John Hunt.net.
Look forward to being back on in one hour on The War Room with Owen Shroyer, Roger Stone, and The Fourth Hour is only.
Transmission, you are the resistance.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
I'll take you live to the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
All right. Taking over for the next hour is Roger Stone from New York City, where my crew is up there waiting, working on some big important interviews.
A lot of meetings going on, a lot of behind the scenes things happening in New York right now, and Roger Stone is about to take over.
Roger Stone, it's great to have the exclusive last week that the JFK files would probably be released by the president the next morning.
He confirmed that barring new information, he was intending to release it.
But I'm concerned that it was 25 years ago they were supposed to declassify it.
Presidents have blocked its release since then, like George Herbert Walker Bush, clearly involved in it himself, that's what the FBI files show.
If they had 25 years to doctor these, why not then make it a big thing in our face where it's the CIA saying it's Lee Harvey Oswald,
and then he supposedly worked for the Russians or something.
That would fit into a whole Russian phobia thing.
I mean, just who knows, with all the forgeries and fake birth certificates and everything else we've seen, what's going to be coming out of this?
If you have St. John Hunt's dad, E. Howard Hunt, who got arrested that day in Dallas, saying he ran the operation,
he got 90-plus percent of Americans knowing the truth, you've got the fact that credibility in governments at a 7% level.
I think we've already won this war, so if we battle this battle again, it's the only chance they've got at us only having a Pyrrhic victory,
because then they can pull stunts.
Well, Alex, I think that your concerns are well-founded.
Although my source is at least one lifer in the Central Intelligence Agency tells me that the agency has been caught by surprise.
They did not expect this move from President Donald Trump.
They evidently believed that they could talk him out of it, and therefore now their fallback position will be to try to redact and hold back
large swaths of information.
It was Dr. Jerry Corsi here at InfoWars who first pointed out to me that the data dumped by the National Archives in this past July,
the first small batch of documents pertaining to the Kennedy assassination, were so heavily redacted,
and so much of the material was withheld for purposes of national security that they were completely and totally unusable.
They were worthless.
In other words, my concern now is that the intelligence agencies counterman the president,
that they nullify his bold decision here using a backdoor bureaucratic process to neutralize the information that the president has ordered released.
And if that happens, if there is widespread cover-up, we here at InfoWars will be the first to let the American people know.
Roger, that's a great point, and I think that's where this is going.
And I agree they've been blindsided because you notice on Friday they're like, oh, Roger's tone is full of baloney.
We've talked to the intelligence sources.
Pompeo, the president's not going to release it.
And then the next morning the president tweets, yes, barring new info, I will next week.
And so that deadline is basically here now.
So that signals, we can put the article back on screen, we're just showing folks, where they said on Friday,
Trump likely to block release of classified JFK files.
Boy, they were eating crow the next morning.
No, I had a call from NBC on Thursday night.
I had spoken to the president, very friendly, upbeat conversation that morning.
And I had made what I thought was a compelling but brief case for the release of these documents.
The president asked a few pithy questions, and then he said he would think about it.
Now, from the tone of his questions and the content of his questions,
I was optimistic that the president was going to do the right thing, and I think he has done the right thing.
But I think he has caught the central intelligence agency and the other intelligence agencies by surprise.
Now, it is typical of these agencies to stall, to obfuscate, and to cover up as much as possible.
Why would they do so? Why would they be concerned of events of more than 50 years ago,
in which all the principal participants are deceased?
The answer is they're still using the exact same tactics, the lies, the leaks, the forgeries, the omissions.
We have seen them use the same kind of tactics on this president as they used on that president,
because he challenges the power of the deep state, and he challenges, in this case, the power of the neocons,
who had already decided we were going to war over Syria.
Don't worry about a thing. Hillary has promised us the expansion of the proxy war.
And that is the seat of their opposition to Donald Trump,
and why our intelligence agencies, just as they undermine Kennedy, now seek to undermine Donald J. Trump.
Clearly, they're panicking. Clearly, the establishment can't stand what's happening.
And we just saw the footage. Let's queue it up.
About two hours ago, the security breach at the Capitol,
an idiot throwing two by three little Russian flags, six or seven of them, at the president, screaming,
Trader, Trader, you're a Russian agent. You know, forget tax cuts. God forbid, you know, this evil Russian agent
wants to get the economy going again. As everything they said about you, myself, the president,
just like you said a year and a half ago, first, off the Panama Papers and other sources,
they kept asking, how does Stone know we're involved with the Russians and that Podesta's time in the barrel's coming?
Because it was in the Panama paper documents that he was on the Russian payroll.
Now it's all coming out. Tarmac meetings, Mueller giving them uranium, six companies that Mueller part owns,
hundreds of millions of dollars from the Russians. It turns out that there was a Russian penetration,
and it was of the Democratic Party, which is the classic party always spreading their legs to the Russian GRU
and FSB and KGB and all the rest of it over the years.
I mean, it's just dumbfounding. It's stunning.
Oh, yeah, the patriots, we're on the payroll of the Russians, you know, famous red hunters that you work for like Nixon.
We're on the, I mean, you're a guy that helped scoop up Russian spy networks in the 80s.
This is ridiculous, and now it's blown up their face, but when I go out tonight in downtown Austin, I guarantee you,
there's going to be people, as I'm taking my wife downtown to dinner, there will be people that run up and scream,
F-U Russian, when they work for the people that we're working for the Russians.
Yeah, it's really outrageous. Look, I was drawn to politics because of the anti-communism of Senator Barry Goldwater.
I stayed in politics because of the anti-communism of Governor and then President Ronald Reagan.
I'm a man who had actual family members mowed down by Russian tanks in Budapest in 1956.
I loathe the Russian system, I loathe totalitarianism, and I loathe the way they treat Christians and gays and others in their society.
So the idea that we would traffic with the Russians to affect the outcome of the U.S. election is insulting,
as well as patently, completely, provably false.
Alex, I think there have been two events in the last two weeks that really have reversed the entire Russian narrative
and turned it into a boomerang on the Democrats. The first one is obvious.
We now know that FBI Director Mueller, FBI Director Comey, Assistant FBI Director McCabe, and Ron Rosenstein,
the de facto Attorney General of the United States today, were in charge of the investigation into Russian bribery
and the efforts by the Russians to use illegal methods and bribes to the Clintons.
And they ordered the investigation killed. That's the treason. Let's go out to break with this idiot who's known as Ryan Clayton.
He works for the Huffington Post and is an Antifa Soros minion.
So a Soros snake throwing Russian flags at the president's screaming traitor when his fingers ought to be pointed right back at his fatally face. Here it is.
Trump is treason! Trump is treason! Trump is treason! Trump is treason!
Why are you two thinking about tax cuts when we should be talking about treason?
Why is Congress talking about tax cuts when they should be talking about treason?
We should inspire with the agents of the Russian government to steal elections. We should be talking about treason in Congress.
Alright folks, we're going to go to break. We're going to come back with Roger Stone on the other side.
This is the InfoWars.NewsWars.com. InfoWars.com. Spreading those links is an act of rebellion, and I salute you.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices? Find your happiness with pure soap. These all-natural, earth-friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk. Get a 12, 36 or 48 month supply. Or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com. Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben's soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils. See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E-STAR-SOAP.COM or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Hello, Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
It's a no-brainer. A big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period. You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right? And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN. Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best-selling product, Brainforce.
Now, Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle. And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States
that we've been able to get it for less. So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off. And I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already are stocking up.
They know how great it is. A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39. It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com or simply call toll free, 888-253-3139.
We're not just going to have to end of the next week the Brainforce Plus special 50% off. I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth,
turmeric, chaga mushroom, bee pollen, and more concentrate. You talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey.
And it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes. It's incredible. My son is growing like a weed using it.
It's bigger than I am already. 15 incredible. It is amazing. InfowarsLife.com 50% off caveman, but only a few days left. It's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this. We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless. We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win. We're all slaves. So don't thank me for what I'm doing. I want to thank you. We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're fighting the tip of the spear again.
Visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the info war.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
All right, Roger Stone is here with us in his clean shirt, new shoes. That was a sharp-looking jacket he's wearing. Me, I'm kind of being a little weirded there with my periwinkle blue with my electric blue, so I guess I'm going to a disco tonight or something.
Just having some fun here, folks. So much going on. It's crazy. As we predicted, the elites are moving to sacrifice the Clintons, just like Weinstein.
But the Clintons and others are hanging on for dear life, really toxic. The party is in danger of completely collapsing. The Republican party's fighting for its life.
I want to ask Roger Stone about that in a moment and let him take over. But briefly, ladies and gentlemen, we have the globalist and the Soros front groups coming out of the woodwork.
A law firm set up by Obama, admittedly a suing stone. I've got groups connected to the Democrats suing me. And, you know, a flea's not going to kill you, but if it bites you between the eyes when you're driving down the highway, it might make you swerve and kill you that way.
You know what I mean? It's like horse flies running a horse off the edge of a cliff. They're not going to be successful, but your support, your prayers, spreading the links, buying the products just lets us have the money it takes to get even bigger in the face of the globalist.
So I never wanted to be big. And about 12 years ago, they were trying to shut us down and harassing us and coming after us. And the media was accusing me of wanting to make money.
And I said, make money. I've got models where I could bring in 10, 20 times the money and really expand. I said, you know what? I'm going to do that.
Because it's the right thing to do anyways. But if you want to have a, you know what contest, you want to have a urination contest, I am more than happy to do it.
And so that's what we're doing here. And we've got a president in and populists are getting elected all over the world. The globalists are in full panic mode.
Mainstream media is collapsing. The NFL is collapsing. And they just keep doubling down, trying to bully us into submission. You're not going to make a country like this once it's awake. Do your bidding.
So we've got a bunch of great supplements and nutraceuticals of the very best out there. X2, 40% off. Colloidal silver, the highest quality, 50% off.
Anthroplex, which is basically the dry form, organic based system that's like super mill vitality. So amazing. Just just try it for yourself.
Winter sun, 50% off. Help you produce the vitamin D3 highest quality organic source. But let me tell you, brain force ends today, 50% off.
And if you'll just commit to sign up for auto ship, you can cancel any time for free one click in your account.
You get additional 10% off. You sign up every month, every three months, every six months to get another bottle milled to you of the coffee or of the brain force plus or the X2 or whatever the case is.
I think I'm going to create a t-shirt of the month club as well. So you get discounts on t-shirts when you sign up for kind of for auto ship with a t-shirt.
Just get the new t-shirt of the month as well to give away or where meat like minded people you name it.
So again, infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com will take you right to the supplements or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
But if you'll just commit, make the decision. I know you're busy. I appreciate your support in the past to just sign up for auto ship.
You get discounts and you don't have to forget about this. The reason I started getting auto ship set up a few years ago was I realized I take my own supplements home.
I run out. Then I want to take knock out a sleep aid or something or X2 or secret 12 and it's gone.
And I'm like, okay, sign up ourselves for auto ship. So we do that now and every month the big box comes and sometimes I have a little too much.
So I give it away to the nanny or to a neighbor or something and then they end up ordering it themselves.
Just if you'll just sign up and support us and just commit.
We're the church of liberty with the church of freedom with the church of fighting the tyrants and taking America back and we're delivering.
So instead of, you know, tithing to your church, that's, you know, government 501 C3 run operation.
Just sign up. Even if you're not a religious person, see it as your donation monthly and we'll change the world.
We're already doing it. Thanks for your support. So I want to salute all of you that have supported us.
That's the last day to get rainforest 50% off. Okay, Roger.
I wanted to ask you this question and turn the baton over to you because I think you got a lot to cover there in New York today.
What's going on with Trump saying, well, I'll work with the establishment Republicans against, you know, Bannon's Tea Party group.
I saw that as kind of a good cop, bad cop deal because overall he keeps doing so much good stuff.
Or what's really going on with that and what's going on with Fox News trying to brand the Republicans establishment is invincible.
And, you know, this new liberty, no rhinos movement that you and I and others have been spearheading that Bannon's now on the bandwagon with and that's great.
I mean, what is that going on? Is that Trump playing good cop, bad cop shows yours?
Well, Alex, first of all, I always thought Steve Bannon would be more effective from the outside like us.
He's a rabble rouser. He's a street fighter. And, you know, he really is a revolutionary at heart.
And I think that he has correctly identified the fault line in the Republican Party between those who believe in the radical reform party of Donald J. Trump
and those who are for the status quo who like things just the way they are.
The big corporate money, the special interest campaign contributions pour in, you get reelected, you really don't mix it up with the Democrats
other than maybe for the television cameras once in a while and everybody goes out to dinner afterwards and they slap each other on the back.
The American people, I think, are tired of that.
Now, there is no question that Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan are very persuasive guys
and they are in the president's face constantly pointing out how much he needs them
and how much he needs the support of the Republican caucuses, which sadly they haven't been very adept at delivering.
In all fairness, the House under Paul Ryan has passed some 300 bills that the president has asked for that the Senate has never taken up.
So it is unfair to a certain degree to throw Ryan into the same bucket with Mitch McConnell every time.
That said, the president realizes that the Bannon movement is helpful to him because it gives him leverage
and Donald Trump is a man who likes to keep everybody guessing about his next move.
As I like to say, the one thing that is predictable about Donald Trump is that he's entirely unpredictable.
He does have, I think, enormous leverage in these primaries.
I don't think the lesson of Alabama is that the president has no juice.
I think the lesson of Alabama is Trumpism is more important than Trump himself.
That it is the principles that he ran on that are manifest and...
Well, I mean, look at Austria, look at Italy.
...elected the most Trump-like candidate.
But, I mean, everywhere, patriot populists are winning all over the world.
Just this week, we've seen it in Italy, we've seen it in the Czech Republic, we've seen it in Austria.
I mean, this is global awakening.
Trump just rode in on his surfboard, which is great, but this is a lot bigger than Trump.
I totally agree.
And I think what you're going to see here, Alex, is the president is not going to support all of Steve Bannon's challenger candidates,
nor is he going to support all of Mitch McConnell's incumbents.
He's going to pick and choose.
He is going to, on the basis of sophisticated polling and political calculation,
figure out where he can have the greatest impact.
But I'll say this, I would not want to be an incumbent United States senator running against my president.
Now, when they say, oh, you know, Jeff Flake voted with the president 97% of the time.
Yeah, they vote with us on National Hamburger Week.
But where are you on the tough votes like Obamacare's repeal or the upcoming tax legislation?
So don't be fooled by these phony statistics where they say, oh, he supported the president 90% of the time.
Yes, on innocuous party-line votes.
But where are you on the big, on the biggest?
Stay with us more with Roger Stone straight ahead from New York City.
Instafire.com and use discount code Radio 30 at the three times for 30% off your order.
Fire at an instant.
Protect Your Skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used, and we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarrestore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America, it will come in the name of liberalism.
You're a white male! You're a white male!
A powerful host? Will he be hearing from Alex Jones regularly, as well as taking your phone calls?
The liberal establishment media has controlled the narrative for too long.
The silent majority is no longer silent. This is The War Room.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
I got no friends because they can read the papers, folks.
It's Roger Stone from New York City. A lot of stuff going on.
So watch NewsWars.com and Infowars.com tonight and tomorrow for live feeds, special guests and more.
Now back to Roger Stone.
Thank you, Alex. I think that any time that special counselor Robert Mueller is out of the news,
perhaps the supporters of the president begin to breathe easier.
In my opinion, that is a mistake.
Mr. Mueller has been essentially a legal executioner for both the Bushes and the Clintons.
We know definitively when FBI Director Comey was fired by President Donald Trump
that Robert Mueller auditioned, in essence, interviewed for that job the very next day.
He was passed over.
That, of course, creates the potential for a massive conflict of interest.
He could be biased against the president because the president decided to appoint someone other than Mr. Mueller to that FBI position.
Yesterday, however, we learned from an extraordinary news story
that Mr. Mueller has been allowed to invest in a hedge fund controlled and run by the billionaire George Soros.
And in this particular case, since the necessary opening ante was a minimum of $10 million,
Mr. Mueller was admitted to the fund without the required funding.
In other words, he was getting preferential treatment.
Now, add to that the fact that we've established that the Uranium One investigation,
the Justice Department investigation into the bribery by the Russians of American officials
and American business people, as well as the massive bribes to Bill and Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation
that ended up securing the approval of the transfer of 20% of the enriched Uranium to a company controlled completely by the credit.
And I've got to say this then, now that it's all come out, because I just can't help but ask this,
how do they continue on with the fake investigation when it's like Hitler sitting on the Nuremberg trial as the Chief Justice
or in somebody's divorce trial, the husband or the wife is the judge over the trial?
He's got to recuse, he's got to drop it, the whole thing's a fraud.
This is just ridiculous, no wonder, like you said a year and a half ago.
They've said we're all Russian agents because they are.
Well, but unfortunately what's missing today are the New York Times and Washington Post editorials
calling on Mr. Mueller to step down because of this stunning new conflict of interest,
which we have just now discovered.
The mainstream media never targets the wrongdoing of the bad guys.
In this case, embittered liberal Democrats and neo-cons unhappy about the fact that Hillary Clinton is not president
and can't give them their expanded proxy war in Syria.
So we don't ever have the luxury of having a docile or absent mainstream media.
They're usually calling for our heads in most cases on the basis of completely trumped up and fraudulent information.
Reminds me just the other day of Anderson Cooper insisting that info wars was wrong about the fact that George Soros was in fact a Nazi collaborator.
Alex, you were forced to take actual footage and show it right here at info wars in which he admits in his own words
that if he didn't do it, somebody else would have.
By the way, it's worse than that.
In denial.
The Spanish government's now saying the police didn't beat up any women or anybody else in Catalonia.
They're saying that's fake news.
It's just next level lying.
Since you mentioned how it's stunning the connections of the Clintons and Mueller to the Russians,
here's Newt Gennrich saying the same thing on Fox News.
First of all, I do think it's useful not just to look at Russia,
but to look at Saudi Arabia, to look at China.
Lots of countries have figured out that hiring a lobbyist, giving money to a foundation, endowing a university.
The level of foreign money penetrating this country is very disturbing.
And I think that we ought to have some kind of congressional hearings just to set the record of how many different countries are trying to influence us.
And to remind us that a lot of these so-called professors come from endowed chairs that have been endowed by foreign governments.
So they're not necessarily giving us academic truth.
They're in effect hired spokesmen.
In the case of Russia, I've always thought, I've always thought it was crazy that we're over here looking at a very, very minor issue about Trump.
You had the Uranium-1 deal, you had, I think, $135 million going to the Clinton Foundation. You had Bill Clinton getting a half million dollars.
You had the Podesta Group doing things that were representational, including, I believe, representing a major Russian bank.
The total surround for Hillary Clinton of Russian influence peddling was stunning.
There you have it, Newt Gingrich, still one of the most articulate conservatives out there, and able to capitalize these things in a way the American people can understand them.
The entire Russian narrative is boomeranging on the Democrats.
And what an irony that it wraps up Mueller, Comey, McCabe, and Rod Rosenstein.
That's why they're also fatalistic to get the president, because they're protecting themselves.
If they don't get him, they'll all go to jail for what they actually did.
The linchpin on this is quite obviously Jeff Sessions.
Now, I have been a critic of Attorney General Sessions on this program.
I liked him immensely when he was in the United States Senate.
I cheered his appointment as Attorney General, because I thought he would be a tough, no-nonsense federal prosecutor interested in the rule of law.
Instead, he's proposed a return to minimum sentences, which is unnecessary, because the Congress set up a no-face commission that can set federal minimum and mandatory sentences.
It is interesting that the late Supreme Court Justice Anton Scalia objected to the appointment of this body to take the heat off of the politicians.
What it means is the commission can set rules and a floor under which judicial sentences cannot drop, meaning the prisons will be flooded with people who are guilty of nonviolent crimes or people who have harmed no one.
Jeff Sessions has been gung-ho for asset forfeiture, working out new rules in which the states and the feds together can seize your assets before you have been convicted of a crime, and they get to split the booty.
Sounds unconstitutional to me.
It is famously known that Jeff Sessions wants to crack down on the 29 states where the people in those states have decided to legalize medicinal marijuana.
At complete variance with the position of President Donald Trump, who says, this is a state's rights issue. Let the states decide.
And then, of course, there is his stunning failure to prosecute Hillary Clinton.
Now, I was buoyed last week and he said there was an investigation, but even as we speak, the Trump Justice Department is in federal court seeking to block the release of Hillary's emails.
That's right, you heard it right. The Trump Justice Department is seeking to block further release of Hillary Clinton's emails.
What about the need for transparency and the right of the American people to know which side is Jeff Sessions on?
I have now, I think, solved this riddle.
Jeff Sessions is the Attorney General of the United States in name only.
He is being managed and handled by a coterie of deep state aides and, in fact, Rod Rosenstein, the former U.S. Attorney for Maryland, a liberal Republican who I guarantee you did not vote for Donald Trump, is the de facto Attorney General of the United States.
Jeff Sessions, I think, should pack it in.
You may be a critic of Rudy Giuliani, but if he were your Attorney General today, Bill and Hillary would be on their way to the pokey.
I'm Roger Stone and I'll be right back.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brainforce. Now, Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able to get it for less. So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already are stocking up. They know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics. And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39. It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com or simply call toll-free, 888-253-3139.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfowarsLife. Our organic formula is made from high quality, natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Make up refreshed and take on the day. InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout. Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfowarsLife.com.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support. It's made in the USA. It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the Infowar.
It is a classical 360 win. This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
With your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world. Now it's time to change our bodies.
This is ZShield at InfowarsLife.com.
SuperMail Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the Infowars. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Welcome back. I'm Roger Stone, sitting in for Alex Jones and you're on Infowars.
To finish the last segment, Jeff Sessions has become a total and complete captive of the establishment assistant attorney generals surrounding him.
This is why there has been no effort to prosecute Hillary or Bill Clinton or the Clinton Foundation. There has been no effort to prosecute Loretta Lynch for her illegal activities in the cover up of Hillary's email scandal.
There has been no effort to prosecute officials at the Internal Revenue Service who were harassing free enterprise and conservative oriented organizations and there has stunningly been no action whatsoever against the Obama national security apparatus.
We know, based on documents handed down by the super secret FISA court in November, that the Obama administration illegally surveilled as many as 30,000 Americans for political purposes.
Let me be more specific. One out of ten government conducted surveillances were illegally of US citizens. Why? It's pretty simple. This is political espionage, but the dirty work was done not by a band of Cuban burglars brought in from the outside,
but by the actual intelligence services of the United States government, your tax dollars at work. This is clearly far more serious crime than anything anticipated or executed at Watergate, the wholesale spying on American citizens in violation of the US Constitution.
Yet so far, Ms. Rice, Mr. Clapper, Admiral Brennan, pardon me, Admiral Rogers, Mr. Brennan, presumably Valerie Jarrett, they have paid no price whatsoever, leading me to wonder what exactly Jeff Sessions is doing over there.
Perhaps he is so controlled, so handled by the circle around him, that what he says and does in these congressional hearings is actually meaningless.
But until we get an attorney general who is committed to the rule of law and who is prepared to hold Democrats to the exact same standards to which Republicans have been held, there will be no justice, no justice, no peace, as a friend of mine likes to say.
I notice also that one member of Congress particularly deserves real accolades in the President's decision to release the still classified John F. Kennedy assassination documents.
That would be Congressman Walter B. Jones of North Carolina, who courageously put together a bipartisan coalition of both Republicans and Democrats, right, left and center, supporting full transparency and the release of these documents.
My hat is off to a great public servant, Congressman Walter Jones. In this case, he has done the American people an enormous and beneficial service.
I also noted yesterday that Casa Pacifica, the California home of President Richard Milhouse Nixon, now on the market, a beautiful 1920s style Spanish architecture, 10 bathrooms, 11 baths.
This is going for a mere $63 million. No, I will not be moving in any time soon.
But it is an exquisite property where history was made. Brezhnev visited the President there, Chinese dignitaries after the opening to China visited President Nixon there.
It is there that Nixon famously loved to walk on the beach, and yes, he did sometimes wear wingtips.
If you get out that way, Casa Pacifica, you really should check it out. It is quite extraordinary.
The other recommendations that I make regularly to any of my friends who are visiting Southern California, there are two must stops.
One is the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum, and the other is the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley.
Both of these are extraordinary experiences, great for families. If you're out that way, I strongly urge you to take both of them in.
We are also interested in a story that I've been following in which Michael Caputo, who was dragged before the House Intelligence Committee, may yet be dragged before the Senate Intelligence Committee,
simply on the basis of the fact that he worked for the Donald Trump campaign and that he once lived in Russia. In fact, he lived in Russia while working for the Bill Clinton Administration,
where he was sent to that country to attempt to foster democracy and promote the election, that's right, of Boris Yeltsin.
Mr. Caputo testified openly, freely, and under oath for the House Intelligence Committee only to have Congresswoman Jackie Spear accuse him publicly of perjury, a crime.
Ms. Spear was not present for Mr. Caputo's testimony, so therefore we must assume that she is basing her claim of perjury on a reading of the transcripts of Caputo's testimony.
The problem with that, of course, is that Mr. Caputo himself is not allowed to obtain and have a copy of this transcript, therefore it makes it quite difficult for him to conduct and defend himself.
Now he has gone on the attack filing specific complaints with the House Ethics Committee and with the division of the FBI that deals with cybercrime since she made these charges electronically.
Kudos to Michael Caputo for pushing back. He also knows nothing whatsoever about the Russian collusion, delusion.
Folks, we've said it before, but we're going to say it again. We are listeners supported. We would not be here with this broadcast and our expanding broadcasts without the loyal support of the men and women who we like to call info warriors.
And therefore I urge you to take a few minutes and go to the info wars store where some of our most popular products are now on deep, deep discount.
I'm speaking specifically of silver bullet at 50% off, very powerful collidal silver supplement. I'm talking about enthroplex, which I found when used with some of the super male vitality had an extraordinary synergy in terms of a man's energy and physical health, not to mention addressing the plumbing.
These are extraordinarily well received and very carefully tested products brought to you at extraordinarily good prices.
Now I also want to say a word about the winter sun without enough vitamin D from the sun, the average person can become depressed and lethargic in the winter months.
This delivers an incredibly powerful vitamin dose of vitamin D to prevent that kind of a syndrome. So these are the products folks and I of course am a known aficionado of brain force.
This broadcast would not be popular would not be possible without it. So please help us help you. It is as my friend Alex Jones likes to say a win win situation.
You get reliable, carefully tested all natural products, not to mention books, t shirts and other terrific products. And we get the kind of financial support we need for a major expansion.
If you enjoy the war room, which will be coming up next, you should know the war room is only possible because of our expanded sales at the info wars dot com store.
So if you want to kick George Soros in the crotch, if you want to stand up for Liberty, if you want to support our expansion, our new study studio, more programming, more pro Liberty voices here at info wars, stop by the store and give us your support today.
I point out Alex Jones never posts anything for sale at info wars that hasn't been rigorously tested and gotten in some cases literally thousands of testimonials from happy customers.
You will never find a product at the info wars dot com store that we do not use ourselves. I'm Roger Stone, right here with Alex Jones.
