The Alex Jones show, because there is a war on, or your mind.
I'm actually hyperventilating a little bit.
The suspense is so incredible. What's on the line is so unspeakably serious.
Boy, I've never, never had anxiety like this on air.
So much down to the wire. Six days out.
What will the globalist deep staters call them?
To stop the populist wave worldwide that is red, red blood, of red-blooded humans that want freedom. Brazil.
A George Washington-type, elected, pro-gun Christian, Merkel being removed by, quote, far right wing.
She's already out of power. She'll still be there as a figurehead until 2021, unless she completely resigned.
And everywhere else, they're losing. And they believe, the globalists are enemies, believe, and they are correct,
that if they can hold on to the United States, they've got some shot of suppressing nativist, nationalist, independent groups around the world from getting control of their own destinies.
It is wickedly authoritarian. And it's authoritarian like an aerospace engineer wants to design an airplane that's aerodynamic.
It is the science of dehumanization and control, because that's the only shot the technocrats have of maintaining their illegitimate, bizarre, anti-Renaissance hold.
We need to be accelerating technological development. We need to be exploding into space.
We need to be innovating at every level if we have a shot to make it out of here.
The globalists are attempting to dumb down and then reduce the population in an attempt to control a planetary collapse that in many cases has already begun, and not for the reasons they claim.
And in that war, they're going to set up trying to dehumanize the population.
That war on humanity, that will create a blowback, feedback, cultural, economic, and psychic spiritual loop that will absolutely have the planet fall to death.
So the globalists want to kill the human species and potentiality in an attempt to control it. It's called killing the Golden Gush.
They see us, though, that are resisting their program as death, as ignorant sabbages that are going to eat through all the resources, but they're the ones trying to freeze the development and trying to freeze the expansion while actually promoting the stupidest people to have more children.
And it's in the Royal Commission, the original eugenics battle plan after World War II. It's all a fact that they claim they're doing this great evil act out of some altruistic great goal, but really it's all about being directed by evil.
Now, we have some of the most dramatic footage at infowars.com that is exclusive to infowars.com. As far as I know, we've sent this a drugs report.
Don Salazar. When we come back, we're going to roll the footage for you. The radio listeners all describe it.
Trump ain't playing. Video shows hundreds of military vehicles, including Abrams, frontline battle tanks being shipped to the border.
Footage of train heading southbound. Portally captured in Arizona. And Trump is confirmed he's sending heavy armor. Armored personnel carriers, you name it. Supply vehicles, support vehicles. Everything.
Command and control systems. Because let's be honest, this is part of a larger plan to collapse the country and Trump knows it.
So Rex-84 is getting implemented. Hold the ride back.
Flora Life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day. These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try Flora Life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery. Try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Six days. Six days, ladies and gentlemen, until the most important election in world history, the final big giant juicy domino to fall against the globalist and signify their collapse.
It's kind of like once the Nazis got kicked out of North Africa and they went into Russia, they sort of get kicked out of there and the allies landed and there was a turning point after the Battle of the Bulge where we knew they were whipped.
But it was going to take some time and some blood. And we're at that Battle of the Bulge moment right now in the allegory and we already are in the battle and we're already smashing their main offensive.
But it's on right now. This is the magic moment in history.
Now, let's be clear. We lose this midterm, which I don't think we are because of all the indicators.
There's a massive, massive landslide where the Republicans would pick up 50 seats in the House, 5, 6, 10 seats in the Senate. There's a total red wave globally of populism.
There's such total fraud going on and people who have been dead for decades voting, not just in Chicago, but in Austin, Texas and huge farms of phone banks and people who are filling out the early voter forms and the early voting mail-in forms from Texas to California and they're just shipping them in in mass.
They've built a big seawall, a big, blue, stinking, fraudulent wall. And here comes the tsunami.
All they got to do is, like a gold post in the NFL or in football, we just got to get that football right between the gold post.
It doesn't matter if it shoots all the way up at the top, right through them, it's just got to make it. And right now that ball's, I mean, we're going to see what happens.
Here's the blue wall, but the Dems are panicking because they know the internal indices and indicators are just tsunami hammer wave, just like Brazil, where he won by double digits, just like Merkel has been lost every election for six years.
But in parliamentary manipulation and having the Muslims all vote in unison for her, she's been able to manipulate the parliament system and stay in power. She's gone now.
Notice, as soon as they fall, you don't hear the mainstream media talk about it anymore.
Populism, capitalism, the things that work, it's back. And just like Trump's been tweeting, if you let the Democrats in, they're going to take you to the Venezuelan system, that's the model they like.
And that's true. They want to make you poor on purpose. They hate your stinking guts.
Think about that. Now, here's the big news. It just got linked up on drugreport.com. Don Salazar article. Trump ain't playing.
Video shows hundreds of military vehicles being shipped to the border. Footage of train headed southbound captured in Arizona.
It's up on infowars.com. Right now it's at newswars.com.
And good luck Twitter and Facebook and everybody censoring it. Because the biggest website in the world, the biggest news site in the world just posted it.
And ooh, this is going to go real viral.
Now, we're going to get more into that in a moment.
But here is something that my spidey sense and my common sense tells me is a big problem.
Let's do it in a moment. But first, New York Times op-ed brags of replacing in bittered white conservative minority.
So it's the open culture of teaching the left to be an anti-white party.
And then if you resist it, you're racist. So they're just destroying the dream of the abolitionists of Martin Luther King.
Of course, it's a democratic party. They're a race-based party. They are flipping the script.
When it's majority white, they're KKK. When it's majority other groups, they turn them into brown KKK.
And it's Don Lemon. It's the whole scripting point that the biggest terror threat is white men.
Imagine saying the biggest threat in the world is Asians or the biggest threat in the world is you fill in the blank.
Jews, I didn't say that. I'm hypothetically saying it.
They'd be, oh my God, you're the worst person in the world. Because it is bad to just say a group of people are bad.
Imagine if you said the biggest problem in America is black people. That's what they're saying. It's white people.
And then they're not bringing up here from Venezuela, and they admit now most of them from Venezuela,
not Honduras, not Guatemala. They were staged there by the UN.
That country totally collapsed. The only route Venezuela has is north. It's up there in eastern, northern South America, northeast South America.
And they're all just coming right in, up through Central America.
They're not allowed to stop. They just leapfrog from UN center to UN center.
Now they've got the buses all lined up, funded by the open society, funded by USAID, funded by the Annenberg,
funded by the MacArthur, funded by the Ford Foundation. It's all the same names.
And there are the buses. And guess what? Oh, the first buses are set to start arriving in just three to four days in McAllen, Texas.
Oh, we've been down there six or seven times. Six years ago, five years ago, four years ago, two years ago.
The report, we're going to play it coming up, is the UN in charge at the Texas border.
And the Border Patrol ordered to load people. They haven't even checked their identities on buses.
Many of us ended up being trafficked by sex traffickers.
Print me the Washington Post and then again, please.
So imagine, I'm up here trying to say it's Soros in the UN and the media is like, that's insane. Fireloo dogs.
My God, he says again, the sun is yellow in the daytime sky.
When it's on record that it's Soros, it's on record they're child smuggling. It's on record it's illegal.
But see, Obama had executive orders in place saying to the Border Patrol, you just let the people come in.
They're like, well, most of these are little kids or adults and there's not even parents and we're loading them on.
All these so-called charities, we don't even know who they are and they're just disappearing.
And a lot of them ended up in sex slavery or dead or trafficked into other countries.
How dare Trump change that? And if you show up out of a desert with crying kids and there's two men and seven kids
and the kids are crying in Spanish saying, my mama was killed, my mama was killed.
Oh, we're just going to load you up on a bus with some weird creepy potbellied Democrat who probably got a Nambla card in their wallet
and just bye-bye because if you don't, you're abusing people.
This is the lawlessness Democrats create in every city and the piles of human feces.
Why? Because they're devil worshipers. They're filled with a spirit of destruction and pain.
And there are children being abused everywhere around them because they're psychic vampires.
When Chuck Schumer and Pelosi drive by and see feces everywhere and kids starving, it's like a fire to their satanic spirit.
It's like warm. See, badness to someone who's into serious satanism is the only time they feel warm.
I've talked to top psychiatrist, you name it, who've been on and they don't want to be putting books.
But the criminologists know this. The child molesters, the child killers, they have nightmares.
They feel like they're demon possessed. They're absolutely unhappy unless they're hurting someone really innocent.
And then there's like white light all around them. They feel warm. They feel good. They feel satisfied.
The only time George Soros feels alive is when he's hurting innocent people and ripping countries apart and taking old people's pensions
and having them freeze to death because they don't have any power for gas.
And when you understand that, you understand everything at that point.
They want to hurt you and your family. They want to steal your birthright. They want to steal your speech.
They want to steal your genetics. They want to sterilize you. Every form of evil that they can invent, they do.
So that's what they're doing.
And it's a giant criminal operation and it must be met. It must be dealt with head on.
Are you going to let Alexander Soros literally suck the spiritual essence out of this country
into that black hole that are his two eyes?
No. No. You shall not pass. You, back to hell in the name of Jesus Christ.
In the name of Jesus Christ. Back to hell, Soros. Back to hell.
It's like the one you're listening to.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to GoBerkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. GoBerkey.com
Here that. That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in. Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution. Be vigilant, but not fearful.
Go to faketv.com.
We began studying this effect in published trials and decades later, we now have the fruit of this research, a fast-acting, chewable tablet that helps alleviate seasonal distress symptoms.
Polymblock is natural and effective. It is not an antihistamine.
In fact, current research has found that it actually acts by blocking the activity of triptase, which is an enzyme that amplifies immune and inflammatory responses in the body.
Go outside and enjoy the air you breathe. Head to InfowarsLife.com and grab a pack of our Polymblock chewable tablets.
It features the same great formula that supports your heart, brain, healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included.
A powerful, pregnant-owned base, the real red pill, has quickly become one of our fellow Infowars' favorite products.
Now, with an extra proprietary energy blend inside, including green tea extract and rematte leaf extract, and more, you can get that extra pick-me-up while supporting your mind and body in a healthy way.
Got all the great stuff that real red pill has? It's also got the boost in it. Get the Real Red Pill Plus at InfowarsStores.com.
It is in the U.S. Constitution. It's in the U.S. Constitution. And it's in the Bill of Rights. And it's also in English common law that was hard fought to get the right to keep and bear arms.
And that right has been usurped all over the planet where once free peoples were allowed to have weapons. Only slaves are disarmed.
It's the first sign of a free person is that they have speech, and they have the right to private property, and they have the right to arms to defend themselves.
The trifecta. And then, of course, with that comes the right to worship or not worship. Everything else flows from those founts of speech, of defense, of property. A man's home is his castle.
That's Magna Carta. 1215. 1776 was not a revolution against England. It was a revolution against the corrupt Imperium usurping the rights of Englishmen.
1776 was born on the field on the plain of Runnymede. 1776 was born in 1215.
2016 was born on the field of Runnymede. 2018 in Brazil and Germany was born on the field of Runnymede. The epicenter, the beginning, the trigger chain reaction to the Renaissance that then swept Europe 300 years later.
Think about it.
So, people have a right to go down to the border with their firearms, but Trump's got it handled. The professional military's got it handled.
This is so dangerous, they don't even want the National Guard running it. Okay? So, everybody needs to stay away from the border. You've got a right to go down there with your firearms.
But I'm guaranteeing you, right now the globalists are rushing buses up, just like we predicted and James Woods predicted and others did a few weeks ago, to get them to the border a few days before. And the first are supposedly going to show up in three and a half days in McAllen where they've got a friendly leftist government down there that works under the UN.
I'm going to show newscast for you in a minute, saying that, and they're going to bring across the people. And if Trump stops them, they're going to show little kids, they hold up front and say, look, Trump's hurting little kids, the army's hurting little kids.
These are people using children as shields who have been leftist organized in Venezuela and Nicaragua and San Salvador and Honduras and Guatemala that are hell, whole countries.
I'll just leave it at that. I've had family that died of the results of their wounds living down there. So, it's been bad, it's real bad, and it makes Mexico look nice.
And it's all being organized by the UN and the State Department with all the stay-behind networks of Soros. And when Lou Dobbs covered that last week, the entire system went into a connection fit and everything Soros had on Facebook and Twitter just hit them with hundreds of thousands of calls,
millions of emails to just harass Fox to remove that because it was the total truth. This is a foreign invasion organized out of our own government and it's criminal and Trump should cut the funding off of the State Department to Soros.
That's it. The head's off the snake. Got to happen now.
How do you think they want me off the air because my information warfare bombs are true and they go right? You ever seen the videos of cruise missiles that shoot through people's windows? That's them full wars.
They're sitting there drinking their coffee in the New World Order and here comes the truth right through, right between their eyes, through the window and up politically.
That's the same thing. And when you see them freak out, you know it's the truth. But I don't need to see Lou Dobbs say that. I've been videotaping. It's on the local news all the time that the UN runs all this and the damn buses every day 20, 30, 40 up in the McAllen alone just hammering through kids being sex trafficked all of it.
So what am I getting at here? This is out of the Daily Caller. It's up on infowars.com. And I totally agree with this. U.S. Border Patrol warns Texans about militias stopping migrant caravan.
I'm not worried about real militias and military veterans down there with walkie talkies and firearms because it's dangerous and everything and, you know, calling and helping when you see people.
But you're going to be set up. If I was the globalist, I would send down infiltrators into these teams using fake names, you name it, provocateurs to link up with other militias and other civil defense groups.
We've got a great job in Arizona, other areas documenting as journalists what's going on.
But you know this is the prime false flag. I'm sure of it now. Mike Adams has been sure of it. They are rushing those buses to the border to have the quickest confrontation they can.
And they want to send it to Texas because they know Texas is going to have a strong response. And they want to make it look like Kent State for the National Guard shooting people.
And that's how the War of Independence began on Bunker Hill.
Is somebody shot first? They're not sure. Probably the British. But when you want to start a war, you have somebody off the side who fires the shot heard around the world. We don't need the shot heard around the world down there.
And listen, patriots know this. They're staying away or you're going down there as journalists. You're not calling yourself militias.
But if you want to go into a hornet's nest at Southern Poverty Law Center and media matters and serious operatives who obviously aren't just working at media matters at Southern Poverty Law Center, they are foundation level, higher than CIA, really bad people.
They got access to your bank accounts. They got access to everybody. They have total access to everything. Top security clearance, code links to everything. They are the stay behind criminal network.
And they stick out like sore thumbs. They look like demonic hunchback rats. I don't care if they're black, white, they're just evil people. But you better watch your butt if you go down there and you better say you're a journalist.
And I get having a firearm in your vehicle, but man, you don't want to be set up by these people because they're going to do it.
The groups they're affiliated with, the stay behind networks. And this is an emergency situation. So all I can tell you is Arizona, California, Texas, you probably need more people down there.
But it's like Yoda tells Luke Skywalker, hey, don't take your weapons into that part of the swamp. He's like, why? Well, this isn't a place for weapons at this point.
There's a time for weapons. There's a time not for weapons. Of course, he doesn't listen and takes his weapons and you see what happens.
And anybody that's got any understanding knows this is not where the citizen militia is absolutely constitutional and wonderful and good. This is not the place for that.
This is not the place for that. We trust Trump. He knows what he's doing.
We do need citizens down there in safe areas. Do what the border patrol says. Video taping and documenting because they're going to try to set the border patrol up and everybody.
And so you've got to be there to document that. Information warfare is what's needed now. First amendment now. That's the weapon system. Use it. Hammer them hard. It's the weapon right now. Information warfare. Get down there and defend the truth.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of Slingbow, a new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at Slingbow.com.
That's G-U-S-S-E-T dot com. Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to. In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jean Company.
But because I private label it, I'm able to go below cost on contracts that all their other distributors aren't able to do. But I want to be a market leader and I want you to have storeable food so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back in forward store dot com on in forward select storeable foods. They've got special diet foods. They've got three month supplies, your supplies, weak emergency supplies. They've got so many great products there.
They've got a three year supply. If stuff happens, you can feed your whole block. It's up to us to be self-sufficient. If you're buying war bonds, bringing great products together with God's help, we are unstoppable.
In forward store dot com, in forward select, high quality storeable foods, powered by my Patriot supply.
We're back against the chemicals in the food and water to fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
In forward store dot com and get super mail vitality before it's gone. This is actually our last run of super mail vitality. So I want you to experience super mail vitality before it's too late. Unleash the super mail in you.
Super mail vitality. Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative, in forward life has the formula for you. Ultimate Krill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA and omega-3 is found in our high quality, ultra pure Krill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and omega-3s, ultimate Krill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function and more.
And while other Krill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality Krill Oil concentrate, paired with our ultimate fish oil or you separately.
It's time to see what Krill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Krill Oil, now available at InfowarsStore.com.
When I grow up, I want to be a rock star!
To the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the Resistance, you're listening to Alex Jones.
America won't die, you will die!
They don't have any power!
All they could do, like call, sleep, sleep, put us into a trance, and then suck us dry, but we woke up, pulling them off our necks.
And now we're getting our strength back.
Coming for you, globalists, coming for you.
For an American band, we're coming to your town with prosperity and fortune and the stars.
It's a lot better than North Korea and Venezuela, isn't it?
For young Chiquitas in Omaha.
Good part right here.
Feeling good, feeling right.
Saturday night, the hotel detective.
He was out of sight.
I don't know what he's talking about, let's stop right there.
They were going to get to meet the boys in the band.
Good, good song.
Okay, I'm going to stop right there.
I'm feeling victory.
What about you?
I'm feeling victory here.
Now, exactly what does that victory portend?
And what is the shape of that victory?
Because you can feel, you can see, you can smell, and you can put the temporal evidence together as well and get a clear picture from a distance.
But like a mirage, you know you're approaching something good, but is it what you thought it was?
Like the Garth Brooks song, some of God's greatest gifts were unanswered prayers?
I think we're going to win this election.
But even if the enemy somehow is able to steal it, victory is close.
But like a video game or like any chapter in a book or the way life really works, as soon as we've slayed this big dragon
and then walked up to the top of the next hill, we're going to see something 20 times worse, but we're going to have confidence.
And remember what we went through and we're going to look down from the top of the hill to the thing we thought was so big and it's going to be little.
We're going to think, is it far away and looks small?
And if we walk back down the hill, by the time we even get there, what we were fighting has melted away.
It's not even dust, let me say.
You see how that works?
It's all an illusion.
Of course people want prosperity.
Of course humans can do anything.
We're making the image of the big guy.
He didn't dump us out on this planet to play tiddlywanks.
And the globalists know that and they just want to control it.
They're like, oh my God, this is incredible.
We've got to be in charge of this.
Don't let them know how amazing they are.
Tell them they're crap constantly and they're killing the earth while we're actually killing it.
Because our God says killing it.
This is quite the Halloween special so far, isn't it?
Okay, I'm going to stop right there.
Let me get serious here.
Just Rob Zombie's rendition of American Band of Underground Railroad or whatever.
It's too good.
Maybe we should hear that song again.
Okay, all right.
Let me just stop for a minute.
Just stop for a minute.
We've got a lot of serious stuff to cover here.
There's something really important I was going to hit when I came back in on a break.
And I got a little bit flummoxed and I know what it is I want to cover.
But I'm having trouble finding my article.
Here it is.
And so I'm going to kind of reconnoiter here for a minute.
And when I come back in the next segment, I'll get into it.
But Kanye West did not come out against President Trump.
The media went with that lie, what he came out against was Candace Owens speaking for him
and getting too big for her britches.
And I'm not in the business of, you know, fawning after celebrities.
I like Kanye West.
And my friend, I don't pay attention to pop music very much.
But once I saw years ago gay fish in the whole South Park thing, I thought this is really good.
I like this song.
I listen to gay fishes routinely.
It's on my list of music.
It's a comedy that the South Park brothers came up with.
A little funny piece.
And people said, well, that's what Kanye really sounds like.
So I got on the Spotify and I typed in, you know, Kanye.
And I sort of like, cold digger all these songs.
Now, this is the rap I like.
Well, no wonder this got so famous.
This is good stuff.
Because most of the stuff I hear, you know, rap on the radio.
It's like, it's like new country.
I just can't listen to it.
Kanye West, it's all really good.
It's very diverse music as well.
Every song doesn't sound the same show.
Well, I'll tell the story when we come back from break, but it's important because he's a bellwether and they're trying to destroy him for what he's done.
And then he had to put the brakes on because he did not design that shirt and he did not give her permission to do that.
And that's the one thing really makes artists mad is people not just taking credit for something.
They've done.
Most artists can handle that.
Don't say I did something when I didn't.
It's like politics.
I didn't say get battle rifles and go kill the media.
Believe me, if I said it, it'd be very clear.
And boy, I mean, we're in a lot of trouble at that point.
You get put in prison for that.
And I don't think that was what we need to do.
We need to expose these liars and all of them aren't bad.
So that's being raped.
Oh, they're little fish.
That's being raped when somebody lies about you and lies about who you are and then you don't have a voice to counter it.
It pisses you off.
Well, Kanye had a voice to counter it, but he couldn't do it like a little bitch and just go, I didn't really mean that.
She stopped that canvas.
I didn't really tell you that.
No, she goes around saying, you know, and these incredibly gifted amazing people like me and Kanye.
So Kanye is watching all this and it's just, it's gotten a little, a little heady.
And look, Candice Owens is a smart, beautiful lady.
Done a lot of great work, but she's gone from nowhere with Paul Watson helping launch her to the very top.
And, you know, she got too big a head and started speaking like Kanye West was her running dog.
And so he knocked it down.
But if you read the, even the Atlantic, what Kanye West Trump phase meant, he's still saying individualism, think on your own.
Love everybody.
America is great.
Capitalism, investment, Elon Musk, but he doesn't want to be pigeonholed just as a Republican and then have his identity taken by other people who don't even realize they're taking his identity.
So I said, I'd cover Kanye West next segment. I just did it, didn't I?
And so that's what it is.
He's like, you're not going to launch clothing lines in my name.
You're not going to own me.
I'm not somebody for you to exploit.
I don't let the record companies do that.
I'm my own person.
Don't become what I'm trying to get away from.
So that's what happened with Kanye West.
And I respect him, you know, more than ever because he doesn't need to become a Republican tool as well, which Trump knows.
Trump's like, please don't come hug me.
Stop. No.
Kanye, just stop saying how much you love me.
Because Trump's smart.
He's like, man, this guy is an independent.
He's going to really get hurt bad for this.
He's already done so much with Jim Brown, everybody else.
Kanye, I think you've already taken one for the team.
You need to stop because he Trump's lost $2 billion doing this for the country.
He's thinking, is Kanye really this damn tough that almost no one else can take what I take with Alex Jones takes?
Can this guy take it?
He's like, Kanye, can you take it?
Because you really need to watch out, man.
And boy went and hugged Trump and imagine what they're going to Kanye behind the scenes.
But Kanye's kind of like, yeah, don't take advantage of me, Candace.
And I'm going to kind of sit back here a little bit and I'm going to kind of pull back a little bit.
But I still support freedom and think it's okay to be a Republican.
You understand?
Kanye West is an American man.
So is Trump.
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by Infowars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients and even support your immune system.
Infowars Life's cutting edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
The globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that and I've been told that's going to happen,
but you've got to back us and I promise you this.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at the spiritual level.
I physically will, but I give you my commitment if you financially support us at infowarslife.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage,
and that's why we need you to go to the site now.
If you're not in the market for one of our greatest nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution.
25, 50, 100, 250, or even $500 would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists
and to destroy their campaign of censorship in which they want to strangle our first amendment rights.
InfoWars official app, taken on the globalist at point blank range, and with your help spreading it,
and with your help downloading it, we are unstoppable.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWars is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party, left to CIA operatives,
the corrupt justice department, and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground,
and I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this is,
and understand how real this fight is, and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us, and if you spread the word about our articles and videos,
infowars.com, we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales, infowars.com right now,
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you,
despite the fact we're trying to block our commerce, and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Soros the Global will swing with.
This is InfoWars Darkest Hour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
That which does not kill us only makes us stronger.
Alright, let me tell you who's coming up today, I should have done that.
Gavin McGinnis, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of accounts associated with anyone even praising him,
or saying you like him, and your Facebook is wiped out.
If you read this press release by Facebook, because they say he's a militia,
because he has the proud boys who are proud western chauvinists,
and who never offensively attack, that's why they can never get arrested.
But when the anti-professors, meth heads, show up and start hitting kids in the head with bike locks,
they beat the living hell out of them everywhere.
I mean, one proud boy routinely takes out like 10 meth heads, and it's like the Matrix when Neo's fighting,
and Agent Smith's in slow motion.
I mean, it's a joke.
In fact, we show some TKO's, you know, there's a lot of them.
They always show this one, there's a whole bunch of them.
Oh, you try to hit me with a metal baton and kill me.
Here, bam, wipe you out, and then perfectly, when the woman tries to trick me to hit her, I don't do it.
That's what the guy's thinking.
It's just beautiful.
Oh, here, you hit me.
Oh, here now.
Watch this.
Oh, I'm so scared of you.
A meth head with your metal baton.
Here.
Oh, you tried to kill me just now?
I'll TKO you.
That was not even a technical knockout.
It's a knockout.
We're in New York.
There you go.
We're not going to let Gavin McGinnis speak at a restaurant in America.
We're going to go down there and beat their asses, and we walk up as meth head professors.
They call for killing the president, everybody else, and we start throwing bottles and punching them,
and they beat the hell out of us.
And the New York police go, we can't allow Americans to stand up.
We're going to arrest some of you.
And then they've got the attorney generals in different states investigating it.
And then Facebook says, we're banning all of you.
And it says that if you give aid and comfort, it says, it doesn't say it in that way.
It says, if you praise or support them, if you praise them, if you on Facebook say you
like the Proud Boys or Gavin McGinnis, you will be banned.
And then what's next?
Sky's the limit.
And if we go along with this, our journey to tyranny is complete.
Facebook's lost a couple hundred million dollars in value.
And the word is, by next year, it's going to completely tank.
Which is bittersweet, because I don't want it to bring the rest of the stock market down with it,
but it is a giant criminal operation.
It's just added total censorship and defamation to its quiver, where they take you off and then lie about you.
Yeah, that's the Wall Street Journal spinning it.
Oh, Facebook's slowing and the stock's down.
No, the truth is, they're scared, they're bailing out.
They're seeing rats leaving a sinking ship that's on fire.
But be careful, because that fire could burn us up, too.
We need to get away from that ship, though.
Just let it kind of slowly drift off into the ship graveyard over there.
That's better for you over there.
The Phantom Zone just gone over there.
You want to put us there?
How about you go there?
Zuckerberg, who thinks his users are dumb effers.
What type of creep makes $100 billion himself and then hates the people?
Oh, they made me hundreds of billions.
I hate them.
I love our listeners.
I love our supporters.
I think of you like my guts and my heart, my eyeballs.
I just, like, I worry about myself.
Like, oh, I don't want to get cancer, but I need to be a little more healthy.
I love myself.
I love my listeners.
I love Trump.
I love Matt Rudge.
I love my crew.
I was just being mean to the crew.
I'm being mean to me.
These people don't even have any sense of that.
They're crazy people.
They're crazy.
Because they're sociopaths and psychopaths.
You can only do the crap they do of your sociopath or a psychopath.
And so they build their psychopath world because they get in control,
because normal people don't want control.
I don't want to run my neighbor's life.
I don't want to control what you're doing.
Just let me live.
Let's see.
It doesn't work like that, does it?
These people aren't going to get off our backs until we get them off our backs.
Okay, so I normally don't get into Mueller stuff because I'm sick of Russiagate for,
you know, a year and it's pure crap, but I am under investigation.
I've talked to and talked to people to talk to maybe 30 people that have been literally,
they asked me about, when is Jones at Roger Stone's house and who gives them the orders?
And I mean, I might talk to Roger Stone like twice a week on the phone about what we're
going to cover on air or something.
There's no coordination.
It's just, it's asinine, but Mueller is getting ready for something.
And if Trump thinks that Rosenstein, when he said the investigations of fraud is over
and told the truth, I think he's wrong.
I don't think Trump believes that.
He's just waiting to last the election, but this is a nest of criminals.
And there's other things I can't get into on air, but let me just tell you something.
They are, I mean, if you want to be Judas Iscariot, you can contact Mueller.
And they'll pay us some money to say that you, I wear fur hats and walk around and get
orders from, from, from, from, uh, Vladimir Putin.
And I'm not even scared of it because it's like saying I'm a child molester.
It ain't true.
And it just makes you know what crooks these people are.
God, they're crooks, man.
People are like, well, you better be scared of Mueller.
He's a big gangster.
I'm fighting him because he's a gangster.
I know how bad he is.
Hey, you better watch out.
Mueller is really dangerous.
Yeah, I know he's dangerous.
That's why I'm fighting.
I love all these men act so tough around other guys and look a pool hall or whatever, wrap
the barbecue.
Yeah, I'm tough.
But as soon as you think somebody's dangerous and evil, you get on the ground and piss all
over yourselves.
I'm going after the bad guys because I'm scared of them running my planet that my kids live
on.
My planet, not theirs.
What the hell is wrong with people?
I'm going up against Mueller because he's bad.
I'm going up against Obama because he's bad.
I'm going up against George Soros because he's bad because my cuts say I got to do it.
My soul says get them.
It's not even a courage thing.
It's like an attack dog being released.
I want to get in there.
You think I'm worried about whatever they do to me?
The worst things get the closer I get to God.
And that's just the way it works.
And Trump knows that too.
Trump is on cloud nine right now.
He loves it.
He's fatalistic.
He has no fear.
He's charging in because he believes in you.
He's got the spirit.
And I want to look out at the American people and say you've got the spirit.
Speaking of the spirit, they suppress us by removing all the real trace elements that we need to survive out of the food chain.
And iodine, true atomic iodine is basically not in the fields and not in the soil and not in the plants on the surface.
It was once plentiful just like the seas have been 80% depleted of fish.
That's a real crisis.
The surface of the earth is almost completely devoid of real iodine.
The stuff from the ocean is normally bound into other elements and is not absorbable.
I am here to announce our secret project for over a year as the oil companies put me over a barrel to get deep earth crystal source pure iodine for X2,
which we're now selling out of the last bunch of to bring you X3 tri iodine.
Ladies and gentlemen, this has the deep earth crystals.
Then it has the other two types and it has a tiny amount of a special type of vitamin C that causes it to stay in an unoxidized form.
We bring you X3 just like our information is absolutely devastating to the globalist.
Absolute kryptonite, absolute cough and nails, absolute incineration.
There is X2 is great.
X3 is insanely good because there was a little problem with X2 with only the pure atomic iodine in its base.
Very small percentage of people couldn't absorb it.
It doesn't matter.
The point is with all three types and the vitamin C in this proprietary blend, it takes you to the next level of absorption.
X3, 50% off and free shipping out of the gates because I want you to see how amazing it is when you get the critical element.
Years ago, InfoWarsLife created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment, our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms, there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body, supports your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract, poudarco bark and grape seed extract, our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Stress is a natural part of life.
Worth family, friends and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down.
HAPPIES is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years, HAPPIES can help you take back the day.
With our powerhouse formula, HAPPIES can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, HAPPIES helps support during stress, promotes overall well-being and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down. Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with HAPPIES from InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Hello, this is Hank Hill and I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones.
InfoWars.com.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
You know, they say that great minds think alike.
And since I banned on Twitter and almost everywhere else, I thought about going out on Halloween tonight in Austin, which is crazy.
I mean, wow, you want to see women on display. It's unbelievable.
It's like the Brazilian Carnival or something.
And obviously it goes to Gay Frog.
In fact, I may show up downtown tonight as a Gay Frog and we can even stream on Facebook and Twitter because if it's not Alex Jones,
as long as I don't say I'm Alex Jones, it's okay. Only I, the person in band.
It's no big deal to have a person band showing up on a platform. It's totally normal.
But Gavin McGinnis has been banned hundreds of sites in their press release.
Facebook said, they said, if you praise him or support him, you're banned.
That's a new level. Wow. So they don't even deny their censoring.
Congress and Trump haven't really done anything else. So it's just green lighted.
So I know we're actually streaming some of these shows on Facebook, even though it's supposedly banned there.
But if I have Gavin McGinnis on, you'll really get banned.
So I'm not having Gavin McGinnis on of Get Off My Lawn at CRTV.
No, it's a werewolf. So this is okay to have on.
I guess you ate Gavin. Were you sent by Facebook?
Yeah, I was actually sent over by the DNC to take care of him and he's gone now.
But I still have him inside of me. So technically you kind of have him on the show.
So we need the woodsman to come with a little red riding hood and with the hatchet and cut Gavin McGinnis out of your stomach.
Oh, here. God, that thing is hot. I can't do that bit for very long.
I'm going to be a gay frog later today. It's not him.
Hey, the good part is I'm going to be able to get a relationship with Brian Stelter on Grindr.
You know, the crazy part about all of this is they're doing it.
They're censoring conservative voices because they think it'll help them win the election because they know they're going to lose.
But all this fascism does is make them less appealing.
That's why you have the walk away movement. That's why you have Blexit.
Because when these people act like hysterical babies that want to take their ball home because they're not winning,
they go, yeah, I don't want to play with you anymore.
You know, we're on the same page. I was going to make the joke about the little red riding hood, the wolf,
and then, you know, he cuts the little red riding hood out of it and you actually kind of made that illusion.
But seriously, I agree, all evidence shows globally there's a huge political awakening, populace for being elected.
What do you think is going to happen in six days?
There's going to be a landslide for the right, a massive landslide, and I'm not going to be near my house.
I'm going to be on vacation in Jamaica because this country is going to explode.
I mean, if they're this hysterical now, I have my neighbors, people back in the suburbs.
I got my neighbors attacking my house already.
I've got people in the next community over threatening me and saying,
we don't want you to live two towns away from us.
It's just like one tiny thing. I got death threats all over the place.
When I walked down the street, I got people screaming.
I mean, this is totally different from last week.
And that week was totally different from the week before. It just keeps going up and up and up.
So you're saying it's totally exponential?
It's, I mean, every time I have a shower, I come out and I check my phone
and there's 10 new major emergencies or catastrophes or something going on.
And the way they're behaving, like, you know, another thing, this is a slightly separate topic,
but so there's a horrific shooting in Pittsburgh.
And you think, all right, at least this week, let's forget our political differences,
come together, all different religions, all different politicals,
everyone from every end of the spectrum come together and mourn the loss of these people.
But no, they're using it as a chance to further their political gains.
So they're saying, they're saying the shooting and Trump and Republicans.
What you're saying is they have no bottom.
And so as they fall into this, it's just a spectacle.
And you're right that they, I have leftist neighbors.
They don't want me living there.
Four doors down.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves,
it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultrapurified krill oil,
and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart,
joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s,
this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
6 days, ladies and gentlemen, 6 days.
And I was just talking to Gavin McGinnis if he'd just joined us with CRTV and get off my lawn.
For the top, true, Americana, true conservative patriots.
Founder of the Proud Boys that's been banned off of now Facebook, it's all concerted.
He was talking about people in his neighborhood saying get out of here,
and people in town over saying get out of here, we're coming after you.
I deal with that too.
Most of my neighbors are conservative or nationalists and they love me,
but just so happens the control freaks that run the neighborhood association don't like me.
And so other people can park cars however they want.
It's like white glove inspection.
Anything's wrong.
Trash cans aren't in in five minutes.
And the pleasure these people have is unbelievable while they walk their dog off a leash.
I told the security people at my house, I said just call the police on them.
So that's our new thing.
We'll fight fire with fire.
But he was saying earlier it's exponential.
It's doubling each week.
It's getting crazier.
And as Bolsonaro wins in Brazil, as Merkel's out of power in Germany,
she's still chancellor, but her party's out of power in parliament.
That's how that works until there's another election.
She should resign, but she hasn't.
And just everywhere nationalism's exploding, capitalism's being promoted.
What are they going to do as they reach the, I mean, I asked him two years ago,
what's the peak of SJW insanity?
He said, oh, I think it's going to get far worse.
So let's first get back into your neighbors wanting you out because they're such wonderful top.
They want unwashed felons, smuggling children, firebombing Mexican police to marching
at everything free.
But you in America, the founder of Vice, so many other, you know, comedians, movies,
you aren't allowed to be Americana and think that, you know, men can be men.
You're a bad person.
Well, someone makes up a narrative and they don't have to do any research
or have any basis to it.
The Southern Poverty Law Center will say you're part of a hate group
and you advocate for hate.
And no one goes, really, that sounds unusual.
They just go, oh, that's a given.
You're a professional hate guy and you spread hate across the land.
And then that allegation, people go, OK, so now that that's a given,
that this person is a Nazi and he just loves hate, I have to get rid of him.
It's like killing Hitler and his crib.
I have to prevent World War Four.
And you think if I was a high school teacher and someone submitted that as an essay,
I would just write F. You didn't do any of your homework.
You just assumed that you got Mengele on the line.
No, you don't, dummy.
Have you even talked to the person?
No, I had never spoke to him because I don't want to give hate a platform.
Yeah, but how do you know that he's about hate if you've never spoke to him?
Well, I saw an edited video with everything taken out of context
with just little snippets of quotes without any background to each quote.
Yeah, that doesn't count as homework.
That's called a collage.
Basically, every time they present research, it's like those kidnapping letters
where each letter comes from a different part of the magazine.
It's word salad.
It's word salad.
It's word salad.
It's like when on Howard Stern, when they have them say things like,
my name is Bill O. Riley.
I am gay.
And you go, see, he's just said he's gay.
No, that's not what he said at all.
I like, look at Megan Kelly.
She said, she said that when I was a kid, people would wear a black face
and no one had a problem with it if the person was dressing up as a thing.
She didn't even say whether it was good or bad.
She just said, this was the culture when I was a kid.
Boom.
Fired.
You like blackface.
What?
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
No.
Apologies aren't good enough.
Rotten Hell.
And I love how those that grovel to it get destroyed the most.
Oh, remember that guy?
Forget his name.
Brett Eisenman or something.
He did the movie High Tower.
He was a producer.
Brett Ratner.
And he was drunk at a Q&A.
And they said, do you guys rehearse at all?
And he used a bad word.
He said, rehearsal is for, and then he used the F-A-G word for homosexuals.
And he just said, rehearsal is for that word.
Just a dumb quip, right?
He apologized.
They said it wasn't good enough.
He did an apology tour of America where he would go to different cities
and apologize to various communities around the country.
And I don't like that guy, and I'm not advocating that quote.
But that was still not good enough for them because it's not about the truth.
They don't want to say, hey, Megyn Kelly, you screwed up.
Apologize.
They want power.
They want to be able to crush you.
And if they can make up a story or they can make you uncomfortable in your community,
they can get you fired, they can kick you off social media, that's power.
That's all they really care about.
I agree.
So what about the parallax view, though?
They don't understand that when they crush us, it only makes us mythical creatures.
At the level we're at.
I feel sorry for the average guy that owns a auto body shop or the average lady that
owns a medical lab or something or just a school teacher.
They go out and say they like Trump on Twitter or Facebook.
They get fired from the school they work at.
That's the real fascism, saying, oh, you've been refused, even though you have a 3.9
grade point average, because you liked Donald Trump on Twitter.
That's the clear and present danger.
These are real authoritarians.
It's a form of terrorism.
I don't want to trivialize victims of actual attacks who were killed, but this sort of
mental trauma, getting people fired, getting them ostracized.
Don't apologize.
The definition of terrorism in Merriam-Webster's dictionary, and the classic one is, using
violence or threats of violence or economic harm or other forms of harassment to get
a political or economic goal.
So when they're trying to de-platform you, bankrupt you, ruin your life, kick you out
of your house, that's terrorism, sir.
Every Trump supporter on the east and west coast and in cities like Madison, Berkeley,
any kind of liberal town, he has lost family connections.
They are uninvited to Thanksgiving.
They lose their aunts and uncles, their cousins.
Siblings aren't speaking because of this divisive attitude.
And the irony of it all is they claim they're about inclusion.
This one woman who was trying to get me to move from this community said, I'm having
a vigil in front of your house to tell you that hate has no home here, and it's about
inclusion.
So under the auspices, under the guise of inclusion, you're trying to get me kicked out of my house?
That's, you need to buy a dictionary lady.
That's not what inclusion means.
It's okay if in a family of five, one of them likes Trump, and you know what my wife did?
She went over to this woman's house with the kids, and my five year old was holding his
teddy bear, and my wife said, why are you terrorizing my family?
Why do you want my children to be less safe?
I get death threats all the time.
When you bring my whole family into this, now they are part of the death threats.
And the woman called the cops and said that I brought four people over to threaten her.
Well, no, the people you're talking about are little kids.
Well, that's the next level.
Everything they lie.
The left has gone into psychotic lying.
Like it's ridiculous.
Like they'll be on the news and say white people are inherently evil, Don Lemon, and then say
that Trump's a racist, or they'll say Trump hates Jews.
And then the next program is how mean Israel is to Palestinians.
None of it even matches up anymore.
It's just craziness.
That's why they hate debate.
You know, we're talk show hosts.
I'm a talk show host.
I would kill to get any of these people on my show, getting a liberal on a conservative show
is like trying to feed a squirrel in the park.
Like you hold it out there.
How does Tucker Carlson do it?
It's like getting a little bird land in your hand and feed them.
How on earth is Tucker able to do it?
Because that's pure gold for us and they won't do it.
How does he do it?
I asked him that and he said it's very, very hard.
Tucker has an entire team that are on the phones pleading.
I assume that they offer them money and eventually they say, you know, it'll be on your terms,
you can hang up, whatever, blah, blah, blah.
I don't know exactly the wording they use, but they...
Because Tucker's a good debater.
I mean, I wouldn't be afraid to debate him, but it would be a challenge.
And he has these idiots on.
He just destroys them.
Yeah.
And I guess they're arrogant enough to think they're going to beat him.
I mean, he has that bald guy on again and again and again because that's the only guy that will talk to him.
And he probably knows that guy from back in CNN days.
But the left doesn't want to debate because they don't want truth.
They don't want harmony.
They don't want unity.
They want us to be ostracized so Trump is pushed out and they can regain the power.
This isn't about coming together.
This is socialist communist mentality.
It's about total control and shutting down opposition and creating a one-party dictatorship,
which might work in a few places where you like already had serfs and then there's commies come in like Russia.
It isn't going to work here. Don't they understand that it is going to cause the opposite reaction?
But don't interrupt your enemy while they're destroying themselves.
I think it was Von Bismarck said that.
We'll be right back with Gavin McGinnis to talk about the election, to talk about so many other big things.
I'm going to play that Don Lemon clip. It's right ahead.
The United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
877-886-3653, goberky.com
305-HBXTrack.com
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
Protovite is nutrition that gets in.
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official formula or just want an alternative, InfoWarsLife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and Omega-3s found in our high-quality ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s, Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less-required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health, and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high-quality Crill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately, it's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil.
Now available at InfowarsStore.com.
Strange Days have found us. From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Let's get into how they're banning hundreds of fan pages of yours on Facebook, saying the Proud Boys are basically a terrorist group when all they do is go out to defend people and anti-foot attacks.
And he has something interesting to say, and I get what he's saying, so I'm going to repeat it. I don't want to move on because he wants to get into bligsits, which is what I wanted to get into next, and the election, and what he thinks is going to happen, and just so many other issues.
Because everywhere, methad, anti-foot professors show up, attack them. It's just a group that you had an idea about. As you said, you don't lead it or run it. Nobody does. It's just an idea. And then now they're acting like you're basically a military general with a ninja army.
I wish. I started hipsters, too, in the early 2000s. I started the two biggest youth subcultures of the past quarter century, and it's just being a fun guy who believes in character and legacy and the truth.
And in both cases, it was just fun stuff. But no, I'm not the leader of the Proud Boys. I'm a talk show host who started a club a couple years ago, and it's on its own. And it's a multi-racial, pro-gay, pro-Jewish club, just like any other men's club.
And I think that the left is using this idea that I'm sort of this hate Nazi with this hate army that roams, they literally said in the New York Post, roams the streets. No, that is Antifa in a nutshell.
Antifa is not just a club. Antifa is tied to the DNC. They're tied to the state. So when they attack someone, they get the narrative from up top, and then the narrative is also pushed out by Governor Cuomo, by de Blasio, by the attorney general.
It's all the same. You can buy Antifa shirts at Walmart. Don Lemon calls them anti-fascists. They are the state. The anarchists are the state now. They have become totally mainstream.
The police in Blue City protect Antifa. So I think the Proud Boys are great, but as you said, you are credited with starting hypsurism, which turned into this monstrous leftist thing 15 years after.
So I get what you say. You don't control Proud Boys. It's not your identity. It's just one more idea you had.
Exactly. And I think they're a good example of the left's propaganda and how often they lie. I mean, recently the news was talking about multi-racial white supremacy.
And you go, do you know when normal Americans read that, they think you're sane?
I think it's the onion. This is what I would say. Yeah, with walk away or or Blexit. Like, I think we were talking earlier about power. It's all about seizing power.
And I think blacks in California, after they got spanked on the bum bum by the DNC for not supporting gay marriage and Prop 8, and I think the blacks in California went, what the hell are you doing?
Why are you chastising me? I'm a Christian and I voted against it. It's none of your business how I vote. And the left went, no, no, no, that's not what you're supposed to do.
That's not what I trained you to do. And I think black America is finally going, wait a minute, you don't see me as a human being. You see me as a pet.
You see me as a human vote. And it's not working out for me. The South side of Chicago, Baltimore, we're dying every day and it's your policies.
It's DNC. And then Joe Biden goes, I know it's bad, but they're going to have you in chains. And I think black America is finally going.
That's exactly what libertarian Christian nationalist conservatives want is to put black people in chains because that'd be really good for everybody.
What planet is this crap? Because I forget that Biden said that over and over again. In fact, let's cue up Don Lemon. He's been saying this over and over again.
So whichever clip you've got, there's like three of them the last three days. I haven't played any of them yet.
There was another one this morning where he says, the number one threat is white men. They're the number one terror threat. And the New York Times has articles saying we need to extinct the white people written by white people.
And it's like they're literally trying like, like preting like blacks, Hispanics and Asians, like their retarded baby ducks trying to get them to imprint on Nazism.
But it's okay because it's against white people. It is the most 180 degrees away from Martin Luther King. This party has gone clinically psychotic.
Here's the clip.
We have to stop demonizing people and realize the biggest terror threat in this country is white men, most of them radicalized right onto the right.
Okay, because there's three of these clips and I hadn't watched that. Okay, this is the one I hadn't seen. He just said we need to stop killing people.
Let's murder everyone or two plus two equals four, but it equals 1000. He just said we need to stop demonizing people and whites are inherently evil under terror.
I started over. We have to stop demonizing people and realize the biggest terror threat in this country is white men, most of them radicalized right up to the right.
And we have to start doing something about them. There is no travel ban on them. There is no ban on, you know, the Muslim ban. There is no white guy ban.
So what do we do about that?
Gavin, you take it first. Okay, if you look at all the crime in Japan, it's pretty much exclusively Japanese people. Japan has a real problem with Japanese men.
They are making up almost all of the crime in Japan. What are we going to do Japan about your Japanese problem?
I mean, again, if you're a high school teacher and you get that and you go, hey, Don, can you come over here? I just, I could not put notice. You said, don't judge people. Don't be divisive.
Don't demonize people. And then in this next sentence, you demonize the vast majority of the country. I don't understand.
Even the white men have the lowest crime rate after Asians. So we have the second lowest crime rate, but now we are the worst people.
You know, the beauty of libertarianism and paleo conservatism is it doesn't get into race. It just says meritocracy. You're good at this job.
Sit there and metal and identify everyone by the race. You just say, we have a crime problem in this country. Let's fix it. We have a problem.
There's a shooting problem in this country. Let's fix it. But no, he has to say, I've noticed they're all white men. Yeah, America is 75% white.
Crime is probably 80% male. You're going to get some of the Venn diagram going on there, Don.
But the idea that because of the crime rate, the democratic run cities and all of it, blacks are 10 times more likely on average to commit a crime against whites and vice versa.
We don't say blacks are all criminals. There's still a very small minority, just like it's a very small minority of white males committing crime.
We don't say white men are bad. Let's restrict their movements. If there was a country of caveman like white people with no visas where they killed everybody and sold people in sex slavery,
I would say you can't get on airplanes and fly here without a valid visa. That's all Trump said. You can't fly here from Somalia.
It was perfectly reasonable. And the list that he came up with was an Obama list. But again, you know, we always make this mistake.
You and I, we put our brains into their heads and we say, don't you want to get to the truth? And you realize that's not what's going on here.
This has nothing to do with truth. Don Lemon right there didn't even believe what he was saying.
What he was really trying to say is Trump supporters kill people and Trump can't be reelected or more people will die.
So vote DNC, vote veto or whoever we run against Trump or you'll be killed.
Even though this weird loner hated Trump and thought Trump was a globalist, but he hated Israel, the globalist want to get rid of Israel.
So the dumb truck driver doesn't even know what he's talking about. He's not as a dumb truck driver. He's a you know what hole and an idiot.
I didn't Benjamin Netanyahu's son tweet out a meme that was mocking George Soros. I think he got in trouble for doing that.
But George Soros is an atheist. His father was an atheist. The guy doesn't embrace Judaism.
Now he wants to overthrow Israel. It's incredible. We'll be right back with Gavin McGinnis. I'm Alex Jones.
This event is the first of its kind ever. John Boehner and an esteemed panel will reveal which cannabis stocks are primed to deliver life changing windfalls in the weeks and months ahead.
Plus they will show you how to become a cannabis angel investor backing the hottest startups before they potentially become worth billions of dollars.
To join American Cannabis Summit, text JOIN to 44055. Attendance is free. Text JOIN to 44055.
We need to go back and revisit the foundations of our freedom. Our freedoms don't consist of the things that are enumerated on a piece of paper.
We don't consist of the things that we're willing to fight for. The First Amendment, the Bill of Rights, the rest of the Bill of Rights are prohibitions.
They're prohibitions against powerful organizations and individuals taking those God-given rights from us as individuals.
You better understand that because they're taking them right now.
What they want to do, they called it UN Agenda 21. Now they call it the UN 2030 Agenda. They want everybody off of the rural lands. They want people out of the suburbs.
They want to pack everybody into the cities because that's where it is easiest for them to control everyone.
It's The David Knight Show.
I never missed your show. Any day.
At me, what? I mean, never.
At InfoWars.com forward slash show.
It's compact in size, easy to install and maintain, and keeps fluoride and other dangerous toxins out of your water supply and away from you and your family.
With its broad spectrum contaminant reduction, you'll only need this one filter for clean and refreshing water all over your home.
Head to infowarsstore.com and whether it's your first water filtration purchase or you're looking to replace your current rundown systems, it's time to go big and go home with the pro-pure whole house filtration system today.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live, active culture, fluorolife, as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
And I'm doing this to introduce these products to you.
Bodies sold out in a month, strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with.
It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today at infowarslife.com.
You want answers? Well, so does he.
He's Gavin McGinnis from Austin.
Get off my lawn.
CRTV.
It's Alex.
All right, I'm sick of Russiagate.
There's big developments in it.
Roger Stone joins us for one segment coming up next segment.
We're going to open the phones up.
We've got Owen Schreuer in studio.
But I wanted to finish up with Gavin McGinnis who's one of my favorite guests.
I love his show and I am a CRTV subscriber.
There's good, funny, smart television that I can, you know, even sit around and have his ambient in the background.
And I don't have to see the constant catheter ads and silver ads like Fox.
I'm not knocking it, but my God, I see one more.
My pillow ad.
I'm going to jump out of the window here.
So that's what we watch at nights, CRTV.
And of course you support infowars, folks.
We appreciate you all.
We had that big sale.
It just ended, but now we have our new X3.
It's an incredible product, 50% off.
That's at infowarsstore.com and free shipping on that.
Check it out.
It's amazing.
X3 is very exciting.
But I'm going to belabor that after he leaves us.
Gavin, I'm a pro militia guy.
I believe in the Second Amendment and every able-bodied man, you know, 18 to 45, has a duty and a right to be armed and trained like Switzerland.
But I can really see a false flag here when these militias are infiltrated a lot of by the feds.
That's a fact.
And usually it's the fed in a militia that tells you, that's not true.
Jones is the fed.
They're both feds.
Now let's go blow up a federal building together.
So that's using an FBI informant or FBI as we've seen and the leftist arm of it.
Someone like Reality Winner is trying to set people up.
But we've got the Border Patrol warned Texans about militias stopping migrant caravan.
We've got way more than just the 5,000 troops that Trump talked about.
We've got video that's on dredgerport.com of army tanks being set down.
They're Abrams tanks, command vehicles, all of it.
So I think Trump's got this handled.
People have a right to go down there.
But I'm just saying I smell a big fat chance for some leftist group to shoot some, you know, kids or something.
Because, you know, nobody's really shot any migrant kids other than Mexican coyotes.
But in the movie Machete, you know, Don Johnson does, so it must be real.
I really see this as their last false flag and now they're busing them up days before the election to the Texas border.
I really am concerned, Gavin McGinnis.
Yeah, I've even been talking to liberals here in New York City and they don't seem to like this.
They smell a rat and it just seems very curious that thousands of people spontaneously rent some 18-wheelers together.
I guess they all pool their money and they drive and then walk for the cameras
and then drive and then walk for the cameras on their way to Mexico.
I mean, even the left is saying this really looks like it's for optics.
And if it is just for optics, that is brutally sinister.
And it shows how, I don't know, how evil some of these people on the left can be.
Because are you trying to set up a scenario where hundreds of migrants are pushing the fences and they get crushed
and maybe there's a photo of a dead kid or something or a military guy shooting at people who are trying to mob him or something?
Are you trying to get some picture to change the election and happily sacrificing hundreds of people?
I mean, you're going to put Satan out of work.
I think you're asking the question, is grass green against the sky blue to bears crap in the woods?
Soros admittedly is funding this. The UN is being funded by the State Department.
Lou Dobbs talks about it and almost gets fired. His guest judicial watch that has the documents gets banned.
Because it's on record they're shipping these people up.
I have local newscasts showing buses from years ago and currently where they say the UN runs the program
and Obama brings them in. And as soon as Trump got in, he ended it.
You know what this reminds me of is Fast and Furious, which isn't controversial.
Everyone knows that what was it? Eric Holder and Obama were caught sending guns down to Mexico so they could make guns look bad.
Get them in the hands of cartels and they'll go, look at all these AKs. They killed tons of people.
I mean, no matter how bad the right gets, you never hear about them wanting to use human beings as fodder.
We're talking earlier about Blexit where they want to use black people as human votes and they use illegals as voters too.
And now we have Fast and Furious and these caravans where they're happily risking lives for optics.
I mean, this is Stalin in a nutshell. This is his mass starvation and mass murder. This is the way communists think.
They don't think about human beings. They see humans as just sort of like ephemera, just a big pile of wasps they can send somewhere.
Or a dam they can blow and have it just flood.
And you would admit that they say they want to destroy borders, collapse the evil capitalist system,
so we'll accept the socialist utopia with rich people like Soros and the Chai Khoms, tax-exempt living in palaces.
Dismantle capitalism. You know, when I was a young man in the 80s, that was what the crazy radical nuts said and it was kind of cool.
Like, oh, this guy's a communist. That's kind of a freaky thing.
Now it's mainstream. I think something like more than 50% of people in the DNC would prefer socialism.
It's 50 plus percent of millennials want communism or socialism.
And they always use Northern Europe as an example.
Northern Europe made its money when it was free market.
It is now literally spending its parents' money.
It's fully bankrupt.
It's fully plummeting.
Well, that's my next question. How could they grab victory from the jaws of defeat A?
And then B, what are they going to do if they fail, which it looks like they are all across the world.
People are waking up. They're being thrown out of office. What are they going to do?
They're going to continue this.
I mean, it is ramping up exponentially, but it is the same thing that we talked about last time I was on your show.
It's the same process. First, you dehumanize someone by making them a Nazi.
Then you ostracize them at their work, get them fired, get them separate from their family.
You isolate them, and then you kill them.
Then they're dead. Then they're fine. You basically starve them to death.
So you isolate, vilify, ostracize. And that's what they're going to keep doing.
And the crazy part is their appetite involves half the country.
It's not like they want to get a couple of weirdos. They don't want to get like a David Duke and a Richard Spencer,
the actual bona fide alt-right guys.
No, they want everyone who supports Trump to be seen as a Nazi on the far, far right.
The term far right is just thrown around at every conservative right now.
And I don't even know what it means.
How do we push back? Because I instinctively don't get people into brigades to go get people banned.
I instinctively don't try to take Brian Stelzer off the air, even though in my view he is a criminal
working with groups to rack a tear to shut me off the air and admitting it.
He's a horrible, just sickening, pinglenest, you know, villainous creature, right out of Batman novels.
So at a certain point, they're assaulting me. They are stalking me.
They have their reporters driving around the building, you know, with blacked out windows.
They're literally trying to destroy me.
At a certain point, what do I do to a villain, a anti-American criminal that is trying to foment
violent revolution and destroy my family?
You stand up for yourself in a microcosm and in a macrocosm.
In the big picture, you continue to do your show and you tell the truth and you talk to people
and you get guests on your show and you try to expose the truth.
And the small, when someone confronts you, you don't cower.
You don't walk out of the restaurant, you know, shuddering.
Remember that guy from Subway, Jared, what's his name?
He was accused of pedophilia.
He cowered because he was guilty and then he did a plea deal and now he's in jail.
Guilty people cower.
Guilty people apologize.
If you're not guilty, you're not a Nazi, you're not spreading hate.
You say, what are you talking about?
No, I agree. And then I try to speak out against it and they try to block me everywhere so they can cowardly
tie me up like in a gladiatory arena and then they walk out while I'm tied up
or you're tied up and stab us.
But see, the crowd doesn't like that. They're booing them.
I mean, I don't think they understand that we're not just putting a good face on this.
We don't just lie like they do. We love the truth.
They're losing existentially in the quantum totality of this fight.
They're only looking at grinding us down, trampling on us now.
I was in D.C. last weekend.
Blexit was massive. They filled the streets.
400 black men and black women went to the White House wearing MAGA hats, chanting USA.
They were shoulder to shoulder, crammed in to the Oval Office, screaming USA, USA.
Not a peep in the media.
Walkaway was the same weekend.
It was also huge.
Hundreds of people, liberals.
I spoke to them. I did a show with many of them.
And a lot of them were just saying, I'm not...
And that's why they're so scared.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health trends on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan favorite product today at InfoWarsStore.com.
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is.
The real drama can be found here in Leilani Estates,
but a lot of us on the Big Island rely on rainwater,
and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain.
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles,
and acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels.
To find out, we employed a series of tests for heavy metals, alkalinity and pH.
What we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rainwater.
Next, we tested the water from our Alexa pure gravity filter,
and not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels.
As it turns out, the filter on the Alexa pure raises the pH of the water,
so what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rainwater supply.
But more importantly, a good water filtration system will purify it.
Fueling your body is hard work.
That's why we've introduced the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack to help you fuel it right.
Combine fluorolife everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body
and take advantage of the powerful nutrients you receive.
There's no better way to power your body.
Fluorolife is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically studied probiotic strains.
Compared with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress, age, and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body.
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
Try the InfoWars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
I want you to have storable food so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible cell prices back at InfoWarsTour.com.
On InfoWars Select, storeable foods.
They've got special diet foods.
They've got three-month supplies, your supplies, weak emergency supplies.
They've got so many great products there.
If you've got a three-year supply, if stuff happens, you can feed your whole block.
It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
You're buying war bonds, bringing great products, and together, with God's help, we are unstoppable.
At InfoWarsTour.com, at InfoWars Select, high-quality storeable foods, powered by my Patriot supply.
And now, the more they oppress us, the more they censor us, the more the sleeping giant awakens.
But I've got to tell you, I've told Rodgery, co-host of Owen Schreuer, every day, three to five with the war room.
We know you're innocent. I was there, I remember.
Everyone was trying to get Julena Sanjohn.
WikiLeaks said that it was going to expose the Clintons.
They hyped it up.
I was mad that they were going on CNN and NPR, where they were being attacked, and I was calling Assange's names.
I was talking in here, like, well, I got a back channel and a talk show host that knows him, and I hear it.
And then they turned that into everybody talked to Julena Sanj, but us.
And I was like, we've been a supporter of his. Why won't he talk to us?
Well, we're InfoWars. We don't have credibility.
The truth is, you get attacked when you come on here.
But now they've gone into, oh, he's really secretly subpoenaed the president.
Oh, they're about to get stoned any day now.
Every channel.
So I'm going to ask him, what's the foot here in a moment?
First off, because we're six days out, I must spend a lot of time plugging products.
But you know, going back a few years ago, the oil companies that get the deep earth pure iodine,
the good halogen crystals between seven and 12,000 feet, began to charge me more.
It was hard to get it.
We had supply problems.
I tried to find another distributor because you got to go to the DEA licensed groups to get pure iodine.
Because it's a precursor, you know, the things that are illegal.
Once we put it out in the glycerin oil and the rest of it, it's totally legal and awful.
They have to go through a big process.
And so I kind of got put over a barrel where I was going to raise the price of it really astronomically to even be able to then fund ourselves.
Well, we did a lot of research, worked with some top labs in the country.
And they said, why aren't you adding a little bit of the two other types of iodine in there?
And a little bit of vitamin C to stabilize it, so it doesn't oxidize the way it lasts longer and it's even better.
And so that's what we've done.
The new survival shield X3 is an energized atomic state with new nascent tri-iodine formula.
It's an energized atomic state.
It means it's on.
It's pure.
A whopping 1,100 micrograms of nascent tri-iodine per dropper.
Serving.
So it's a perfect number that it's X3, which happens to be three types of iodine, all three types.
Like no other product out there.
This is the state of the art iodine supplement.
Three is better than one, ladies and gentlemen.
We found out how to capture and stabilize three nascent iodine atoms with top chemists and developers bound together to form a larger and more powerful iodine.
I guarantee in a year or two that everyone else will be trying to copy our X3 nascent tri-iodine formula.
But we launched iodine nationwide to be so popular now.
And there are imitations on retail shelves just like they do with X2.
So it's available in two ounce, double the size and one ounce.
And it is amazing.
We still have some X2 final run of that.
It's excellent as well.
It's the pure deep earth crystal type.
This is mainly deep earth crystal and the other two different types of iodine with it and does a better absorption.
Some people can't absorb even the true nascent.
They need the other types.
So this is the new level.
And we could have made it pure deep earth crystal.
But then getting into all the chemistry and all of it, this is the next level.
In fact, if people turn out to like X2 better, we'll just put out X2 original and it'll just be that type.
But this is better.
They're both excellent.
And it's all apples and oranges for your different physiology and your metabolic systems.
Consult your physician.
The point is m4slife.com and 4store.com or AAA-253-3139.
And I'm going to have myself a nice, delicious dropper right now of X3.
A lot of folks just take it under the tongue.
You take the stuff about the store, it'll rot a hole in your gut and kill you.
This is good, healthy, delicious, real iodine, not bound, industrial crap.
So there it is, ladies and gentlemen.
And then you just drink it.
Mmm.
Amazing.
Energy, libido, stamina, weight loss for me.
I mean, it's just the missing link.
Roger Stone, I don't know where to start.
You are the biggest guy in the media right now.
Just you are Satan.
You are, as Stephen Colbert said, Trump is Putin's top holster.
Hate to use a term like that.
That's on national TV about our president.
So for documentary reasons, I'm saying it.
I mean, I've been on the inside of this.
It is complete BS.
I know I'm under investigation.
This is just insane.
Payment processors are like, we're dropping you.
You're under investigation by Mueller.
We've had the FBI calling.
So that's the level of harassment we're all under by this terrorist, Robert Mueller,
who the left believes is God on earth.
So what is the latest?
Because you were all over the news and they always recycle the same bull about,
well, he was on conference calls and said WikiLeaks will probably release it soon.
Because they said it on the overnight show where I attacked the signs and said he was Hillary's butt plug.
Because he did not release it.
He said he would.
They turned that like, the stone says they're going to release it later.
Because a son said so on television.
This is just incredible, Roger.
You're absolutely right, Alex.
The feeding frenzy of fake news on October 2nd, when Assange did not release any data,
he did announce a schedule of releases one a week for the next six weeks going beyond the election.
I imparted that to Steve Bannon in an email, public information.
But some are trying to say that this implies communication directly with Assange or WikiLeaks,
which of course is false.
And as you just pointed out on the air there, I've now taken two polygraph exams to prove that this is all BS.
I think what they're trying to do, Alex, is inflate the whole Russian collusion narrative again ahead of the election.
But there is still no evidence whatsoever that I did anything illegal or improper,
or had any communications or advance notice of the content or source of the WikiLeaks disclosures.
I'm showing zero hedge at the time, 10, 13, 16, two years ago.
And you see where they say they're going to release 2,000 Modesta emails in parts of six over the next six weeks.
That was number one news story in the country.
They're telling a grand jury, like they're dumb, that you said this and that you had inside knowledge.
Just like they said Don Jr. had the code keys to WikiLeaks two months after they were released, but that he got them exclusively.
There's a political story that is posted hours before my email exchange with Steve Bannon that says that Assange has announced a schedule of releases going forward.
So it's a witch hunt.
I think the special counsel still has no evidence of wrongdoing on my part.
And they seem to be casting a wide net, but there is no.
We're going to get to that in the next segment, but let me just back up here because I should have opened the interview with this.
We talked this morning.
It's ABC News.
You passed two polygraphs, not some secret polygraph, like Bugide, CIA operative, you know, did in the cabin on witch hunt.
Two top famous people tested you, said you were truthful, that you did not have prior knowledge or weren't in contact with Assange.
That's ABC News.
We'll show that.
And the other big bombshell, the disgraced Steve Bannon, who can't get 10 people to his events.
I've even learned is digging around in my business and the things.
And at the same time, he is talking to Mueller and trying to act like, you know, he's got evidence on you.
So this is outrageous.
Let's talk about that.
Yeah.
The Washington Post yesterday reported that Bannon testified yesterday for the grand jury.
Today, he appears to have leaked an email in which the day after Assange made no announcements, I told him it was out of security.
Concerns.
That was what I learned from Randy Kredico.
I wrote that on Stone Cold Truth on March 9th of 2018 and that he announced a schedule of future releases.
This was not a secret.
It was public information.
This is a witch hunt and it is outrageous.
You, Alex, remember it well because you were, like many commentators, both shocked and furious that Assange released nothing in his October 1st.
And I remember talking to you and it was also in the news that Assange told everybody around him, I've been getting threatened.
I need a few weeks to figure out what I'm going to do.
Everyone was like attack dogs or hunting dogs, you know, chasing a fox, a bunch of foxhounds wanting to get the WikiLeaks.
And this is all part of the record. This is insane that they're trying to pin this on you and me.
And let me be a little bit selfish here.
You and others tell me they just are obsessing over me.
What? I mean, that is crazy.
Well, last night on MSNBC, Ari Melbur brought you up twice and pointed out discussions you and I had on the air regarding Assange.
None of this proves direct contact with him.
We never had any direct contact with them, neither one of us.
And I made that clear under oath before the House Intelligence Committee, which where, by the way, my testimony is 100% truthful and correct.
And certain partisans who say otherwise are, of course, hiding behind their congressional immunity from lawsuit.
Roger, I know your wife got really angry the last time I said this, but she's a tough lady in her dad was anti-communist, Cuba, all that nine yards.
She's a great lady, a beautiful lady as well.
But she's not stupid, so we need to say this on air.
They don't have a lot of moves, brother.
And I think it's, I think it's sleep with the fishes, Mr. Stone and other people, not just you.
I don't see them ever playing this hand properly.
I think you need to up your security, buddy.
Well, if the decision to bring charges against me is based on truth and evidence and facts, then nothing will happen.
That's what I'm saying. They're going to want to kill you as they've already tried twice and then just convict you in the press.
Because this is too embarrassing to that knuckle dragon, deep state lovin' slimebag, Robert Muller, who is the, looks like a hairless buzzer.
They'll be right back with Roger Stone, Owen Troyer and more.
To fight back against the modern day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours, to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive.
To get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get SuperMailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SuperMailVitality.
So I want you to experience SuperMailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the SuperMail in you with SuperMailVitality from infowarstore.com.
We need to go back and revisit the foundations of our freedom.
Our freedoms don't consist of the things that are enumerated on a piece of paper.
It consists of the things that we're willing to fight for.
The First Amendment, the Bill of Rights, the rest of the Bill of Rights are prohibitions.
Against powerful organizations and individuals taking those God-given rights from us as individuals.
You better understand that because they're taking them right now.
We have seen what they want to do. They called it UN Agenda 21.
Now they call it the UN 2030 Agenda.
They want everybody off of the rural lands.
They want people out of the suburbs.
They want to pack everybody into the cities because that's where it is easiest for them to control everyone.
It's The David Knight Show.
I never missed your show, any day.
And I mean, what? I mean, never.
EditForce.com forward slash show.
I know you loved me a long time ago.
And even now in my eyes, you still won't hear my voice.
Alright, Roger. You're close to the fourth hour.
You're going to get into all this treachery and the crap that's going on.
And stuff Steve Bannon's up to. I'm not going to even get into it on air.
He's just as worse than I thought. God Almighty.
He thinks he's so smart.
But finishing up before we come on at four o'clock, they don't have anything on you or me because there is nothing.
We are sickeningly pro-America.
They're thoroughbreds and everybody knows it.
And you famously busted a Russian spy ring in the 80s.
And, you know, you cut your teeth at the feet of Richard Nixon.
So no one is buying this crap unless...
And that's what I don't like.
When I said you, I'm not going to say me because I don't want to be taken out of context by certain parties.
But when I give you that warning, I'm giving myself that warning.
I will never commit suicide.
I don't use drugs or they kill me with an OD.
If I get t-boned at an intersection, investigate the driver.
Because they already t-boned you and the rest of it.
You really did get shot with your uranium gelatin dart.
But it bounced off the surface. You only got partial impact.
This is real, folks. This is the level we're at.
You know, I'm out on the news every show, every hour for no reason, and Roger isn't.
They're honing in on us in some narrative.
And I don't see them executing this narrative unless we're pushing Daisy.
So I'm saying this now to preempt that, Roger.
No, you're absolutely right. So reports that I'm embattled, that I'm depressed, that I'm frantic.
This is all false.
If it is reported publicly that I killed myself, launch an investigation because I'm fine.
And I have no intention of doing anything other than fighting.
But this idea that I'm cornered, that I'm trapped, is false.
The facts are what the facts are.
And there is no evidence to the contrary. And nobody who can testify honestly to the contrary.
I have no choice but just keep presenting the facts as they are.
As I did in two polygraph exams, analyzed by two of the leading experts in the country.
I didn't go down to the corner to lie detectors are us or put somebody out of the phone book.
That is the truth.
We're going to put that headline on screen, too.
For everybody to see that you've taken two lie detectors.
That's also a stone cold truth.
ABC Stone Pass, lie detector test.
I'm going to post that article to infowars.com.
You have a stone cold truth as well.
That's a big story. They're trying to bury that.
Tell us a little bit more about that, Roger.
Well, I got a new lawyer who's joined my legal team, Bruce Rogau, who's represented Donald Trump in some major cases in the past.
He's both a constitutional civil and a criminal attorney.
I've been before the US Supreme Court many times.
He's joining my legal team of Grant Smith and Rob Bouchel and Tara Campion.
It was Bruce Rogau's recommendation that we find a reputable polygraph examiner and that I take a polygraph.
I took two.
We've made the results available to multiple news outlets, including ABC.
We took it to a second expert.
We took a second test, the same exact questions.
I passed it again.
You now have two experts who have given expert analysis to assert that I've told the truth.
I did this to clear the air.
I'm tired of Ari Melbour and all these other jerks accusing me of lying when they don't know the facts or acoustic facts.
Everything they do is counting on us not having memories.
We were all there.
We remember the big hunt for the emails.
Why won't a sans release them early?
Who's going to get it?
Why won't a sans give the time of day to people that support them?
We were the bastard children out here trying to get through just to get him on that was totally normal.
He was on ABC, CBS, NBC at that time.
And now after the election they go, Stone coordinated it all with WikiLeaks and Alex Jones.
And then you run into FBI agents.
They're like, you and Jones are so powerful and evil.
They're like afraid of us.
And they have just built this delusion.
Great job, Roger.
You're back in 55 minutes.
And here's your song, The Eye of the Tiger.
I'm not backing down, folks.
We're rising to the challenge.
Not trading my passion for glory.
Don't lose your grip on the dreams of the past.
You must fight just to keep him alive.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official oil formula or just want an alternative,
InfoWarsLife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and Omega-3s
found in our high quality, ultra pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s,
Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality Crill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately,
it's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil.
Now available at InfowarsStore.com.
This program contains language and sequences some viewers may find disturbing.
The nation and all of our freedoms hang by a thread,
and the military apparatus of this country is about to be handed over to SCUM,
more beholden to SCUM, and the Russian SCUM.
Please listen. If you don't, if you won't, if you fail to understand,
then the same incredible terror that's menacing me will strike at you!
The function of all life is survival.
Sleep. Sleep. Sleep.
Come on! Come on!
They're coming! Help! Help! They're coming!
They're coming! Listen to me! Listen!
You're next! Please! You're next! We're in danger!
Please listen to me! It's something terrible!
Please! You're next! Here they are!
They're already here! Help! You're next!
They're coming! They're coming!
Sleep. The seed is planted.
Sleep. Sleep.
Terror. Grows.
I'm going to have to just wake up.
I'll get you when you sleep. Sit up!
Invasion of the body snatchers.
All of a sudden, they're growing like parasites.
Is it contagious?
It's not real, a homie.
It looks right at me. You need to get out.
You're looking at it as if it was human, but not human.
Now, the classic fear begins to grow.
We're being cornered.
In a modern masterpiece of science fiction.
We're barricading the street.
Invasion of the body snatchers.
The land of the walking dead.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
It's Alice Jones.
You're listening to the Alice Jones show.
Let me just say something. I'm not gay, but Owen looks really sharp today over here.
Damn. That is a good-looking jacket.
Thank you. Thank you. That's very kind. It's kind of a Halloween special.
Looks very slick up here.
It's a Halloween special today.
And, you know, on this Halloween, I hear that we're going to be visited by some special frogs.
That's why I said I'm getting the mode. I'm getting the...
Ribbit.
I'm a method actor, as they say, and I've got to get into the gay frog mode.
Yes, it doesn't take you long with all the atrazine in the water.
You notice I'm wearing a green shirt. Ribbit.
We have a posthumous gay frog actually over here, Alex.
So it's all coming up.
Yeah, I heard in the third hour of the war room that the gay frog is going to make its first appearance a new character.
Well, I'm looking forward to it, but it is Halloween, and it is good for the gay frogs to come out on holiday.
I'm getting into the mode that I'm a gay frog, and I'm kind of believing this right now.
And then you may get a call from Pepe later as well.
All right. Just get ready, folks, because, again, it's like my ex-wife didn't court love her to death.
She's such a good person. We fought before. We were getting along really good now.
And just a couple years ago in court, they're going to have this hearing, and I'm crazy.
And they're showing the judge clips of me when I was the joker like eight years ago saying crazy things.
And I was illustrating that Prozac and things are really bad for you.
But I was saying, kids, take your Prozac, see pretty colors.
Then you die and go in the grave. It's fun.
And they're saying, he's psychotic. He needs to lose his kids.
My lawyer goes, no, he's being an actor there.
That's where you get the whole thing. I'm an actor.
I totally live everything I say on the show when I'm being serious.
But if I'm going to Cobra Commander outfit, or if I'm going to Joker outfit,
or if I arrive as a gay frog today, kind of looking like Cousin Chet in Weird Science.
Can we pull up Cousin Chet, turn into a monster at the end of Weird Science?
See, Alex, that's actually fun. That's entertainment. Your audience has a good idea.
But I don't literally believe I'm a gay frog.
But see, but here's the scary thing, since it is Halloween in the spirit of Halloween.
I mean, you want to get something scary. You tune in. You played the clip earlier to CNN.
Don Lemon.
Where Don Lemon says, white man, let's cue that back up.
Well, first he says, though, you know, we need to stop dehumanizing and stop the divisiveness.
Then he says, all white men are bad. We need to ban white men.
It's like, wow, I mean, Don Lemon, you are.
But see, that's the theme. Here's the New York Times.
m4wars.com, Paul Joseph Watson. Where is my article?
New York Times op-ed brags of replacing embattled white conservative minority or embittered white conservative minority.
And then it's saying whites are inherently bad.
This is literal Adolf Hitler stuff just from the minority perspective,
but it's never even minorities that are writing it.
It's weird white professors that look at demographics and try to sell race-based ideology
to them. This is literally Hitler. And then they're calling us Hitler.
And then we're anti-Semitic because we don't want to blow Israel up.
Well, those narratives are honestly mind-blowing.
Trump's a Nazi. Trump's a Israeli shill.
You know what I am? I want to have prosperous future for my kids. That's what I want.
Well, here's the deal, Alex. That's why I came here.
And that's not a good place when we're all killing each other and hate each other and are racist.
But I'm not going to roll over the left telling me I'm a racist when they're a bunch of flaming, dangerous scum.
So what do I stand for politically, Alex?
Flaming racist.
What do you stand for politically? What does Trump stand for politically?
We want lower taxes.
Unity, prosperity.
We want more jobs.
Space force.
And so that's why the reason I came all day-
I want silver jet packs and I want them now.
And I want to-
I want flying cars. I want live extension technology.
Build our infrastructure.
I want it all.
And you know, if they want to be a racist black nationalist planet, go do that.
White supremacists can have their own planet.
Of course, you know, about 500 years will all have big wars.
You know who it will win.
It's going to be the big, cool planet.
Everybody can be gone.
Well-
Planet America.
We need to name the first big, habitable planet America.
And it'll take over the whole galaxy.
And then they'll be pissed off few areas that they can barely get their spaceships to us.
We'll be like super advanced with huge eggheads.
But they'll be bitching trying to take our planet over.
And then Alexander-
Like, your planet sucks, but we want to take it over.
Alexander Soros III's head in a jar will be sending his hordes from all the other planets.
Floating in a big jar with like tentacles.
We've destroyed planet America.
You will get that planet America.
But I will.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Bob Soros III here.
Do we have audio yet on this?
You will.
You will invade planet America.
Do we have audio on this yet?
You will invade planet America.
Don't scramble.
If you don't have it, it's okay.
Do we have audio on this feed yet?
Houston?
Houston.
We're on the other side of the moon here.
Do you hear me?
Let's check, Gary.
We do have audio on this clip.
Okay.
This is us in a time machine a few years ago interviewing Alexander Soros.
Back it up.
It's why he's pissed off at us.
Okay, here it is.
I'll crush you.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
That's nasty, what?
Let's check, Gary.
There's Soros III's head here, sir.
Oh, my God.
So now they'll say this segment itself is anti-Semitic because you mentioned George Soros.
But here's the good news.
Even though you're in it.
It doesn't work anymore.
But Blue Dobbs, I keep going back to that piece you did last Thursday, where they show the
documents, the admission that the U.N. is getting U.S. taxpayer money and giving it to
Soros and others.
And it's all admitted to ship these people into buses they're waiting, and they act
like that's not true, and that we have it all on video from years ago and even lately.
And then Blue Dobbs may be fired.
Well, it's almost ridiculous that we kind of go along with this false narrative of this
caravan now.
This has been a caravan.
They've been doing it 10, 20 times a year, coming in by the tens of the thousands.
It's just now we're finally deciding to do something about it.
But they want to have the optics.
That's what this is all about.
Building up to the optics so that they'll have the military at the border, women and children
crying at the border, and they'll say, Trump's America bullying women and children.
That's why they're building this whole thing up.
That's why they're busing them all in.
And it's mostly, you know, 80% military aged men that are coming on this deal.
But they'll put the women and children in front.
They're criminals.
And I agree.
I'm worried about groups infiltrating the militia.
I'm not saying militias bad.
They're great.
Feds running militias, though, will say, he's saying we're feds.
No.
That's the feds speaking.
I'm saying look out for federal globalists and leftist groups that control federal groups,
infiltrating the militias, and shooting some of these people.
We'll talk about that in some breaking news straight ahead.
StayFraud.com.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Chain Company.
The United States of Empire is a book that claims the United States is the empire of the world.
George Washington had warned us against foreign wars.
The United States of Empire shows that World Wars I and II left England broken.
Its former colony, the US, had to save the empire.
Was there ever a vote?
Who do we fight for?
The deep state began with World War I.
The United States of Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS in one.
I beat the IRS then, and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement, and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, or go to my website, danpilla.com, that's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Your excitement about America, your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country and the world back from the brink.
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from, so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate, not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that, and I've been told that's going to happen.
But you've got to back it, and I promise you this.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at the spiritual level.
I physically will.
But I give you my commitment, if you financially support us, at foewardstore.com, to give you my absolute total commitment.
It's safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com, because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured you're finding the info war, so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
I am Warren Green.
Okay, I'm going to stop the gay frog joke.
This is too much serious stuff.
A lot of radio stations and serious people.
I was in court a few weeks ago on a child custody issue where I got full custody of my children.
The other media says I don't have my children.
Well, I never did not have them, but I have about 90% of the time right now.
And by the grace of God, they're doing good and they're happy.
So I want to thank everybody for their prayers and everything.
It's a sad point I thought I'd had.
But the judge did ask me, what's this gay frog thing?
Because that got raced.
And I said it's a meme.
And she said, what's that?
And I said, well, I said it's like a joke somebody makes, and that other people keep making jokes off of it.
It's almost like dominoes, like playing dominoes.
And then she understood that.
But it made me think, what are memes?
Because they can be negative, they can be funny, they can be positive.
It's kind of like innovation, you know what I mean?
And then you just keep making a joke off the same thing.
It's beautiful.
And the UN and the globalists and all these groups want to ban it.
Then they act like the gay frog meme that I didn't even make is hateful towards gay people.
It's not.
I don't care if you're heterosexual, homosexual, what it is.
Leave kids alone and don't have drag queens go talk to five-year-olds on career day to tell them you can dress up like a woman.
I mean, it's all just an angle.
That's not a career playing princess when you're 30 years old.
Well, and now I think that there's going to be some people looking into this because more people are complaining.
Not only that it's at public libraries, but public schools now as well.
Yeah, the sexualization of children is going on.
Leave the kids alone.
I mean, if a man came in and wanted to talk about his sexual preferences to your kid at a park, he'd go to shit.
Well, here's what a meme is, really.
To me, it's multi-dimensional.
There's the meme moment when you're actually making a meme, like when Age Skrillex comes up to me and says,
You're an effing white male.
And he's an effing white male.
That's a meme.
And the other guy goes, Yeah, it's horrible.
All white males are bad.
And he's a white male.
So, or you running down the guy that poured coffee on you in Seattle, that's a meme moment.
You run the guy down the street, he pours coffee on you.
That becomes a meme.
Yeah, there's Carl the Cuck.
So those are meme moments.
Then there's the actual literal meme.
Chain reaction.
Yes.
Or the NPC, that's like meme magic, where the NPC meme represents what's going on in real life.
But then there's the literal, just physical representation of meme, which is an art form now,
which is like an image, like an NPC that didn't become...
And so in Mexico, they've got a lot of bandit.
They have banned them in the EU.
Of course it isn't stopping anything.
They're saying jail time.
Just you made an image and put words on it.
It's like when...
Language is banned.
The wheel is banned.
Fire is banned.
Yeah, yeah.
But hey, Merkel still just got kicked out of office.
When us...
We just saw the Trump of Brazil get elected.
Yeah, Italy is moving nationalists now as well.
So 1776 worldwide.
Globalism has failed.
Facebook and Twitter are getting ready to tank and they're stock.
That's already admitted.
So listen, you have a big announcement to make.
We're going to make it in just a moment.
But I've got also the serious news.
I feel good about things right now and in my spirit.
Because I felt like things would tuck and go until like this morning.
And I do go off the sixth sense.
I pick it up.
I feel like a big wait spin lets it off me.
Like I said before the last election, the one we won, a bigger weight came on because
of the enemy combination came in.
But I am really concerned about them infiltrating because most militias are infiltrated by leftist
ADL, Southern Private Law Center operatives.
That's a fact.
And any time a militia leader goes, shut up, don't you defend.
When I'm not saying he's a fed or she's a fed, I'm saying you've been infiltrated.
It's a fact.
People try to provocateur.
Watch your butt.
I believe in militias are in the Constitution.
They're in the Second Amendment.
But I'm telling you, the ace card in Soros' dirty little hand within rushing the buses
up to the border.
People are like, oh, don't worry, Alex.
It'll take them 100 days to get to the border 20 miles a day.
They're being bused up.
They're on flatbacks.
And of course it's paid for by Soros on record.
That's come out in the news.
So they're coming.
They want to hit a few days before the election.
And they're going to hire people that are civilians that go, I hate Mexicans and big
potbellied guy who works at some part of the law center.
He'll run up, hit a little girl and go, like WWF wrestling.
I'm telling you, it's coming.
Well, it's just common sense.
Of course, there's going to be provocateurs trying to engage in some sort of chicanery.
Just like with Rand Paul, when he was about to win the Senate, they had Democrat party
operatives literally wearing overalls and hay seats going, I hate black people.
I hate Mexicans.
And then we did Google searches on their face.
And it's like, it's the deputy head of the regional campaign.
They think we're that like vaccine overalls.
How you do that, boy?
I like Rand Paul.
I mean, how dumb do they think we are?
Well, I think they're going to actually have people inside the caravan.
And who knows, you know, you throw.
I like the KKK.
And I like to.
Or you throw up a firework from, you know, the other side of the border, you're on, you're
in the caravan.
You throw some fireworks over now that, you know, got the military over there.
They're spooks.
They don't know what's going on.
So and then boom, there it is.
You know, there, there's a shot heard around the world.
That's what Soros is betting on.
And we can't let him keep betting and losing.
Keep trying to do this.
He's a clear and present criminal like Lou Dobbs said he needs to be arrested.
And of course, who is right there to try to get Lou Dobbs kicked off of Fox business?
Oliver Darcy.
I love it does.
Brian Stelter.
So you're not allowed in public even say how dare you be in First Amendment.
They're like, oh, oh, oh, oh, down flies the Valkyries of big tech protecting their
little nestling.
He's a little retarded.
I feel like Stelter and Darcy.
I feel like they haven't gotten the memo that it's only Halloween one night a year.
I mean, this is what they've got up against this losers, man, they'll never win.
Just look at that guy.
Just look at that slime bucket.
That and that guy's got access to everything on you know, and you the tech companies have
given him codes to everybody's websites, your private mail.
He's got, he's a super operative.
And that's the type of filth that CNN, the leftist CIA, that breakaway group, this is
who they elevate.
They go, Stelter, you look like a child molester.
You're going to the full command base.
And then yesterday, you were talking about one of the Fox News hosts in his body language.
You can just tell how contrived it all is.
Fake Beto is the exact same way.
I mean, you can tell all, you know, Beto is Spanish means it means horsemaner.
No, I did not know that.
Remember when I interviewed him?
Well, I thought that was Beto.
I didn't know that was horse manure.
I thought that was just Beto.
I thought that was me, Jones interviews poop calling it Beto and now I've equated Beto
with horse manure all over the nation.
No, wait a second.
I mean, horse manure, horse manure is a good fertilizer though.
I mean, it has a use.
I remember when Antifa vandalized the Beto mural in Austin, Texas.
And that was really them.
White gentrifier, which he actually is.
He's like a billionaire.
His mom's a famous Democrat.
Everything he says is a lie.
He's so fake.
It's unbelievable how fake this guy is.
He has a, he's just like Obama.
And I'm going to tell you, he's just like a white guy, Obama.
And we're going to deal with this and we're going to ban the assault rivals.
And I'm a real Texan.
My name's Beto, even though I never was called out before.
Hey Hispanics, I've got a name like you.
I'm really cool.
Haha.
The Hispanic.
I'm the real Hispanic, not Ted Cruz.
I'm Beto O'Rourke.
Did you know O'Rourke is Spanish or lying filth?
Did you know that he actually applied to be in the Hispanic Heritage Caucus
and he got rejected?
Yeah, because he has no Hispanic heritage.
He identifies as Hispanic.
He's like Elizabeth Warren.
I mean, you know, that's the Democrat stolen valor.
Give valor to minorities and then steal it by claiming you're a minority.
That's what the Democrats do.
They'll be right back.
Hi, I'm Dan Pilla.
I started fighting the IRS over 40 years ago
when they tried to seize my mother's house.
I sued the IRS and won.
I beat the IRS then and I've been beating them ever since.
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement
and I've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems
they thought might never be solved.
I can help you too.
If you owe taxes you can't pay, don't wait another day.
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX or go to my website, danpilla.com.
That's danpilla.com, danpilla.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs.
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency,
get to goberkey.com.
Or call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653.
Go Berkey.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park
or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know.
I spend hours in front of a screen
and then hours in front of bright lights every day.
But thanks to supermailvitality at infowarstore.com,
I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day
to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water
to fight back against the modern day lifestyle
with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park
and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get supermailvitality
before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of supermailvitality.
So I want you to experience supermailvitality before it's too late.
Unleash the supermail in use at supermailvitality.com.
With our powerhouse formula,
HAPPYS can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life,
it's more important than ever to support your body
in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body,
HAPPYS helps support during stress,
promotes overall well-being and helps support your mood.
Don't live your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today
with HAPPYS from infowarstore.com.
Words cannot describe how big the stakes are for the future of humanity right now.
InfoWords is being openly targeted by the Democratic Party,
left to CIA operatives, the corrupt justice department
and the entire Soros crime syndicate.
People say, why would you start a fight with them?
Because they were already dominating and running America into the ground
and I knew we had no future if we didn't do this.
So we've already had incredible success,
but if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is
and why we've been made the main target
and if you financially support us
and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at infowords.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at infowordsstore.com right now.
And we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce
and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially,
Soros and the global Spain win.
And if you support us financially at infowords.com, we'll win.
You know, we get so much incredible footage
that a lot of times, especially with this band off of YouTube, Facebook, everything else,
you didn't get out there unless you get excited about it.
But the footage we've got of a Beto O'Rourke Obama supporter
is solid gold when it comes to showing how the left operates
because we were there last Monday at the Trump event in Houston.
And I'm like, where are the protesters?
They go, oh, they're over there. There was like 15 of them.
By night time, there was about 30.
And they were literally saying to me, you're a Nazi,
you need to go to prison, you're a Russian agent.
I'm like, well, the Nazis fought the Russians.
They just, there's no, there's not even, like, no, I'm an American,
not some failed thing from 75 years ago in Germany.
And it's just Nazi KKK, go away, no borders, no walls, no USA at all.
And I'm just looking at the enemy of this country when you were there, Owen.
And we were just trying to walk back by and he's saying, I'm going to rape you.
I'm going to come over there.
And I'm going to, a lot of this we have to bleep because of family audiences.
We're going to post this to infowars.com the next hour
so you can get it out to people that Owen has a huge announcement we're going to get to right now.
But this is crazy eyed Beto supporter threatens to rape Alex Jones.
By the way, this is in front of behind him and around the side,
the police chief and like 50 police and the SWAT team just happened to be set up there
because Trump was about to come by in about an hour.
So he's right by the motor case route and he's right by the Toyota center.
Well, you were there, Owen, set this up for people.
Well, what they had was like a fenced off area for these people, actually.
And so they were kind of trying to keep them separated, I guess, from the general public.
It's a free speech show.
And they had the stupid, the same balloon from London.
The Trump balloon.
The Trump baby.
But this guy is just shouting obnoxiously at you with the bullhorn
and just looking like a crazed individual.
Well, if I said to anybody, I should be arrested, I'm coming to rape you.
I'm going to shove a yardstick three feet up your rear end and kill you.
I'm coming over.
I'm going to kill you.
I should be arrested.
I didn't ask the cops to arrest him.
As you said, officers, did he escape from mental institution?
Well, I'm sorry, but they were just showing the b-roll of that day.
And I just kind of refreshed my memory.
The 15 people that were out there, I mean, it's sad, Alex.
These people really, look, it's frustrating.
But these people probably really do belong in mental institutions, some of them.
And, you know, it's frustrating that these are the people that the left activates to come out here.
We should put a meme out.
We haven't done it yet.
Gut flexor.
That was your meme, wasn't it?
Yeah, the Gut flexor.
We should do a whole video about it.
Do the Gut flexor.
Well, the Gut flexor was originally a football coach for the Cleveland Browns.
That was the original meme.
But I'd never seen it in person.
This guy, again, one of the guys probably belongs in the mental institution, Alex.
But yeah, you know, he shouts with the whole team.
And they do this thing, like, when I'm at dinner sometimes, in a leftist area,
because I still go wherever I want to, wherever I want.
And they'll come over and knock my ass to you over.
And they'll go, shame, shame, shame.
Boo!
And they'll tell the waiter, how dare you serve this man?
And they'll go, I'm glad you lost your family.
And I'll be sitting there with all my kids.
I'm going, OK, dude, mental institution.
Bye-bye.
You're the one with the problem.
This is why I'm doing this, is to stop you.
But they would just shake their heads and go, we're going to rape and kill you.
You're such a Nazi.
Like they're smiling at me like they're in junior high and I'm not at the cool table.
It's like getting to me.
And they're like, dude, in junior high, I was dating the high school chicks.
In high school, I was dating the college chicks.
I wanted to get out of the cafeteria.
OK, lunch, I had the high school girls picking me up the parking lot, OK, dude?
Bringing me hamburgers.
I'm not bragging.
I kind of skipped not being at the cool table at lunch, you know?
Well, you look at these people, though, again, whether it's a Beto protest or I've covered
so many of these Trump protests, a lot of these people just genuinely probably belong
in a mental institution.
But it's the same thing, Alex.
They'll run up to me if I'm doing a live stream like I was in Washington, D.C. over the weekend.
They say, gay frog, gay frog.
And I'm like, well, hey, hold on.
There's a conversation.
You know, what are you talking about?
Gay frogs.
Alex Jones thinks the chemicals are turning the frogs gay.
And I'm like, yeah, well, have you ever heard of Atrazine?
There's a scientific study.
It comes out of Berkeley.
There's PBS shows.
There's videos.
And then, you know, it's well documented.
Oh, OK, you fascist, Nazi scum.
You're racist.
Wait.
I thought we were going to...
Actually, George Soros is the race beta that wants to destroy Israel and work for Israel.
I thought we were going to talk about gay frogs.
Now, you know, I'm a racist, apparently.
Yeah, but whatever.
And yeah, the sad part about the gay frog stuff is they start having sex.
Which just means they sit on top of their male frog thinking eggs are coming out.
But they're not putting their sperm onto eggs.
There are no eggs.
So the frog populations are plummeting.
But think about why you actually raised this issue.
You raised this issue.
Because the frogs are dying.
As an environmental issue.
And it's hurting humans.
Here's a man-made environmental issue that you raise awareness of.
And then the left, which is supposed to be all about saving the environment from the man-made issues, ignores it.
David Hogg said, it's really weird.
He talks about gay frogs and talks in the water.
Then he's selling water filters.
It's kind of interesting.
Like, it's a big master manipulation.
No, I sell things you really need that are good.
I feel good about it.
Yeah, like, cars are nice.
You might sell cars or clothes.
If I was going to be a clothier, I would sell what sells and I like.
Like, you sell what sells because it's good.
It's like a guy standing on the street corner and it starts raining.
And he's like, umbrellas for sale.
You're like, you're trying to sell me an umbrella because it's raining.
Like, oh, wow.
It's like, wow, you really figured it out.
Like, I'm selling stuff that there's a market for that helps people.
I'm not selling Prozac or cocaine.
And so then Hogg, my son does have idea.
And he says, Mr. Hogg, you ought to look into water filtration.
There's a lot of toxins in the water.
That ought to be healthy.
National news, Alex Jones' son, death threats David Hogg.
Isn't that fun when the news media can just spin it?
And, you know, honestly, when this whole Kanye West thing kind of boils down to it,
I really think it was the national media that really caused this whole thing to become an issue.
Let's explain when we come back.
And I want to make your announcement, which is so huge and so critical and so important,
that everybody, not just do what he's doing, but you need to do it, folks, if you want to win.
That's my humble opinion.
Humble water merchant, water filter merchant salesman.
But here is, I don't know what to call this guy.
He's not AIDS Crelix.
He's not Pearl the Cuck.
He's not Trigley Puff.
I mean, what is this guy?
Is this liberal rape?
Well, his t-shirt says Black Identity Extremists, so we could just call him that.
Look at the walls.
Look at the corridors.
They look like a misshapen pig.
That's what she is.
Look at the walls.
Look at the corridors.
Then you don't have to be accepted.
I don't have to be accepted.
So, identity is strength, less than white.
What is your name?
Trump.
I'm not devil.
Look at the.
He's a racist.
He's just right then by street.
You are only possible when you cut your power.
You're going to do all of mylines all of you call imp directors.
I know what you want to cause.
Our we've got physical violence.
Now I'm going to pull our ass down, I don't want do all of you cleaned, guys.
And most of them arecyjt necessarily we need them, folks Donp
I really should've stopped me like that.
There's more of it.
Let's just go back to it.
He clearly
This art type of image image tells a thousand words this video
tells trillions of works
You have Houston a city of over six million people Metro eight million. Is that correct eight million people Metro?
and you have got the
anti-trump anti-america crowd over here
There's like ten of them and they're pumping up the balloon from England
They're pumping up their balloon from England. This is all they got a hundred thousand plus people here
And here they are
Literally over here with no one
There's the good
So full-screen good
Oh
Look at these people they all look like escapees from mental institutions
Like not one of them looks like they are not are not insane
Hold on a second cruise cruise wants to stop abortions, ma'am
cruise wants to stop abortions
Yeah
What you say cruises a death eater, but we gotta come back to the rest of this
I just wanted the video because I know he said he's gonna rape me a bunch. I guess it's coming up
Maybe I don't want to watch it, but it's gonna be up on info wars.com. That guy's so crazy. I'll boo to you
We'll be right back ladies and gentlemen stay with us
We've taken
thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years of
Seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us to mother nature to detoxify the body
That's why I'm introducing z-shield toxic metal and chemical defense support. It's made in the USA
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body and it supports the info war
It is a classical 360 win
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year and now we believe we have come as close to
Perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get you want to yourself
You owe it to your family and you owe it to the future of this country in the world that
Patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you the remnant of America to
Reignite those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be thanks to your support and your prayers together
We're changing the world now. It's time to change our bodies with z-shield info wars life.com
Nourish a probiotic friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by info wars life
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated
Prebiotic fiber a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia fruit and flax fiber
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria
Which helps you digest food absorb nutrients and even support your immune system
Info wars life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality organic and clinically studied ingredients
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon
But our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria
Throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect head to info wars life.com
Or call 1-888-253-3139
Years ago info wars life created the powerful
Myco zx formula to help you combat internal yeast as the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment our team
Knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health
Myco zx plus is the result of the search for that formula a unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of
Yeast and fungal organisms
There's no better product to help your body fight back
Myco zx plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body
Support your digestive tract and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked powered by an impressive list of ingredients
Including grapefruit seed extract how Darko bark and grape seed extract our formula is fueled by ingredients
That stood the test of time as powerful micro balancing properties pick up a bottle of the new and improved
Myco zx plus today at info wars life.com. That's info wars life.com
As the years go by it gets harder and harder to keep up with your body's nutritional needs with changes in diet
Unnatural ingredients and stress you may not be able to get all the necessary nutrients amino acids vitamins and minerals needed daily
That's why info wars life created the powerful vitamin mineral fusion formula the new platinum standard of advanced
Multivitamin formulation vitamin mineral fusion uses a unique delivery system to maximize the effects and give your body the tools
It needs to support your body using a proprietary process
We've managed to make this powerhouse formula into a delicious
Concentrated drink mix that's loaded with high quality ingredients
Perfect for a hot summer day or relaxing at home vitamin mineral fusion is loaded with thirty four different essential vitamins minerals
Amino acids and more start supporting your body's needs in a great tasting natural and affordable drink mix with vitamin mineral fusion today
available at info wars store.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show
Oh
I was seeing that earlier. I forget who sings it. Is it Wu-Tang clan or something and then they already had that made
Those are some talented people
All I know is we had the perfect image coming in to the Alex Jones remix of that's some big old juicy booty right there
She told me that's equivalent like a five-layer all-beef patty
American cheese
cheese
Please don't say dripping again
I kind of like it
Oh, it's not healthy Alex. You indulge on that too much. Yeah, you're gonna have a heart attack and die early
If you're a radio listener, you can't see this
Your heart's gonna give up. Is there something wrong with me that kind of looks good. Okay. Hey, hey, hey, don't say I'm right
I'm okay. She can go do that. I'll make a joke about it
I'm back and don't make a meme about it either because then it'll be banned in Europe. That's how they do big old
Oh five patty all beef. They should bring back the water burger guys. You ever hear him you weren't from Texas then but
His water burger's only in Texas for the states was like all beef patty's
American cheese lettuce tomatoes mustard ketchup
jalapenos on a toasted bun
Now that's what I call a water burger
It's not like ripped torn does the voice over. Oh my gosh all beef patties dripping with cheese
Sesame seed bun a pine a large delicious coca-cola or maybe dr. Pepper
There's thousands of ways to get your water burger juiciness just like you like it water burger, baby
Made in Houston Texas. That's the water burger booty right there. Oh my gosh. Now. We're anyway. Anyway, I don't know why I'm in such a good mood today
Let's get serious you have something really big
Coming up Monday the day before the election here in the ATX. I think other people should do around the country
We also have hundreds of
Beto is a pedo, which is you know, whatever that means he calls it beta. I think he identifies as a pedo
I don't say literally one. He just looks like one most Democrats do look like them and and we know that's kind of their pastime
We also have a veto for gun confiscation. What are the other signs we have?
Beto, I think there's a veto for Nambla. I think that I've seen
I think those are the Democrats do support Nambla, so
But you know the big one that's gonna cost him the election is obviously he does want to take the guns
Doesn't matter. That's real doesn't matter how much he flip-flops on that
So that's pointed ears. No, I'm telling you the guy just has he's just this he looked like a like an evil elf or something
He's just kind of it just as a creeper aura
Just kind of a creeper presence and you know, Texas knows it and it's fine in and that's why it's mostly creepers
But he talks to my voice like Obama, so he must be real smart
White people don't know what it's like to be poor
But the truth is Alex with six days left till the midterms people do need to do everything they can to you know
Make sure Democrats don't get into power. I mean, that's really what this is
He wants to molest our second amendment and first amendment our borders and our you know our paychecks
So here's why it's so important for me to come on to the Alex Jones show and talk about this because guess what?
The Info Wars army is banned from Twitter, which is where we used to organize and I could you reach out to the people and I'd contact
So they banned it's some great stuff info wars.com
People go in force army.com. Yes. Yes, and that's where we upload the videos that we do which we'll be doing on Monday
So here's the deal for Monday in Austin, Texas. I'm calling out any info warriors here in Austin, Texas
We're gonna do a signhold above a major bridge over highway 35 in Austin, Texas
Now I'm not gonna give out the exact location of the bridge because we don't need a bunch of
Rabbit leftists coming out and assaulting us. I'd rather avoid that
But so I will announce the official location of the bridge
Maybe maybe Friday. Maybe Monday. It just we'll see how many people respond to this
But Monday at 5 30 on a bridge in Austin, Texas over highway 35. I've got 10 signs
They say record GDP growth under Trump record job growth under Trump record low unemployment under Trump
Vote red vote dem out and then others that say info wars.com banned information
So I'm calling on people to join me hold these signs. They're huge signs
We hold them over the bridge
Thousands and thousands of people will see them stuck in rush hour traffic an active rebellion in the third dimension
Exactly. So if they if they want to ban us in the digital world, which I'm kind of glad
I don't really like the digital world anyway. Obviously it has its, you know advantages for marketing and sharing content
You have to put it there. That's the mainstream
That's the big where it really happens is on the ground and it is powerful and then you get to meet people
I mean you see water burger, but in the real world not, you know
Well, you see water burger, but in the real world
You just you never look back and that's an image you can't really forget unfortunately either
But the point is this Monday. I'm calling on all info warriors in Austin, Texas
I know a lot of you are going to hear this on this show because you listen every day to reach out to me
I know that we've been in touch before shoot me a a
Message in whatever capability whether it's my email whether you can just get in touch with me on
I do have my Twitter account and banned me personally yet
So you can shoot me a tweet there too, and I will see and I will go home evil Twitter
It's at all I do is Owen. It's probably gonna be banned soon
I did tweet out that I'm gonna have a bridge signhold on that booty brain
So it's it's even risky for us to even tweet these days, you know, they're not gonna comply with them
We're gonna communicate. We're evil. We're bad. The point is it's gonna and maybe I'll show up out there
So that's last time I did this it was pouring rain, and we still had 15 people show up in the pouring soak
And we'll take photos of it and project it out there, and then I gotta go is early voting close yet
I gotta go vote. I think early voting is actually close. We're all gonna go vote, too. I'm not positive, but I read your vote
Yeah, oh, yeah, I'm good. I'm good. I'm well. Let's all go together. I'm gonna go as a gay frog
As long as you don't make a political message within 200 yards of the polling station
You are okay, and I think if you go as a gay frog, I think that that's not a political message
I think that that's I think that that's just what you identify as I support that with these sterilizing me
No, but you see the key is you have to say you identify as a gay frog on the gender spectrum
And then it's official
All right
Let's get serious. Roger stone has galactic level information coming up in the next hour
And then we're going to have the war room 3 to 6 p.m. And there's gonna be a spectacular
Visit from not just gay frog, but from atrazine man
I haven't figured out the name of it yet, but gay frog is gonna interview atrazine man
I think it's atrazine man. I think he's I think he's floating around. There's no need to fear atrazine man is here
Mr. Atrazine man, what are you doing to the frogs? It's wonderful
I've got four eyeballs and two heads and I'm sterile and I like other boy frogs
Good
You're dead now. That's my gift to you mr. Gay frog
Now go away and die. Thank you daddy. I hear if
If you kiss a gay frog you turn into brian stelter
Well, the good part about the now that I become a gay frog is that now I can get on a grinder and I can hook up with brian stelter
Oh, that's that's been what's keeping you off
Oh, look, I'm into women. I got four kids, but brian stelter is too hot man
Okay, and I just I kind of do it
It's like we back so that's no let's be on as he gets on his knees when he backs up it sounds like a trash truck backing up
Beep beep beep beep hold on alex. Let's let's be real. You know
He looks like an escapee from a middle institution. They all do
He kind of like if you saw that guy, you would never let him baby
He looks like like the guy in prometheus after he has like that that alien bug like
Right, well, you know alex. Let's just come out. Hello children. Let's just I've got free ice cream and puppies
Just get in the back of the light van
You look at that. Look at him. You offered brian stelter a million dollars to bare knuckle bucks
Just to bear bare knuckle box just because you have a crush on him
Just admit it. It's fine. You you brian stelter. I'm coming out of the closet. No, you know, uh, this isn't a joke and I
I apologize brian stelter. I have I've been obsessed with you because you're so sexy
You're so manly
It's okay
Ribbit
No, oh and you laugh about this. I'm gonna be honest right now with people
He's so damn sexy
And see I'm already getting in my gay frog boat. Okay. We're on a lot of christian stations. It's halloween. I'm joking around a little bit
I'm obviously not a gay frog
I'm a performance artist. They said so the truth is I feel the country energizing. I feel a red wave
I'm worried about the caravan, but everything they're doing is turning to crap and
Balsana are winning and and and and berkel being out and everything. It's just really good. This is a global awakening on
Well, it really is a roller coaster though every day almost alex just the ups and downs and the news and the media and and you know
The attacks against trump the attacks against us the censorship within the victories hundreds of thousands at a trump rally
More patriots coming together nationwide. So so it's just like, you know, it's the ebbs and flows and on halloween
You know, it's it's uh, it's all spirits eve. It's all it's all souls eve
So there's gonna be you know, there's gonna be a little paranormal. I think out there and if it happens to be
The adrazine man then the adrazine man is what it will be
But if it's brian stelter refusing a million dollars to charity because he won't bear an uncle box you
I think it's cuz he's homophobic. You know with me. It's all talks
All right steltzer just crushed walking that really devastating
Well, that's true or all or oliver
Or oliver darcy, he's a real tough. Oh my god, oliver darcy would mop the floor with that one just he'd throw a right kicker
I'm shocked my head off my shoulders. How is he not a boxing champion? He swatters the first amendment america
I mean quite frankly, he's a devastator
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park
Or heck even take your dog for a walk. Believe me. I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights
Every day, but thanks to supermail vitality at infowarstore.com. I still have that energy
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water
To fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours to still have the stamina and endurance
Energy and drive to get to the gym get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health
So go to infowarstore.com and get supermail vitality before it's gone
This is actually our last run of supermail vitality. So I want you to experience supermail vitality before it's too late
Unleash the supermail and you
supermail vitality
infowarstore.com
Please whatever you do realize that we're all getting punched drunk to the censorship and you saw 18 twitter accounts
They say affiliated with info wars. Yes, some of them are like little side accounts
They even know we had like info war store that just showed our products
But they just banned them all yesterday in punishment that I beat a trump rally and be mobbed by all these folks that loved us
Your excitement about america your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country and the world back from the brick
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future
I want to be troublesome and pesky. I want to keep going. I want to make them do the ultimate not just destroy us financially
I want to push all the way. I've committed to do that
I've prayed for that and I've been told that's going to happen
But you've got a back ish and I promise you this I will never falter
I will never waver at the spiritual level. I physically will but I give you my commitment if you financially support us
info warsore.com to give you my absolute total commitment
You're listening to the alex jones show
You just joined us. You're a regulars. We're showing some beautiful democratic party family album
Rapists that are undead
Oh, you are the resistance. If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance
All right, you know, I don't normally get one of these little giddy moods today, but I just
I don't know what's wrong with me. I'm in a good mood all day. That's terrible. I'm using a horrible angry mood
Oh, and what am I going to do?
It's good for your health to be able to kind of have some gallows humor in the midst of all this craziness
Like at regime was good for that frog is Halloween. This is the posthumous gay frog right here. We're praying our respects today
But the truth of the matter is you'll drive yourself crazy if you can't just have a laugh once in a while
And just just make light of all the nastiness and the hate out there
Comedy is I agree. You know, we've covered a lot of news. There's a lot of breaking news at news wars.com and drudgereport.com
And I haven't looked at the news like 30 minutes. I bet there's something huge breaking
What is I've got so many articles that came and cover them all but let's go to drudgereport.com right now
For roger stone has big breaking news. Let's put it up and see what the big news is there at this point
Didn't guess but that on screen for me
drumroll
There you go trick-or-treat yeah, it's been up has Muller subpoenaed the president
We'll find out next segment roger stone oprah whimperies out trying to get that racist lady elected in georgia
I mean who cares about oprah whimpery. I don't think hollywood's figured out like people are sick of celebrities unless they're the dumbest
I don't like housewives. Maybe no
Well, no one know what I know like like if you even talk about celebrities and stuff everybody's like
And it's not just like oh, they're jealous of their celebrities. They're sick of it. It's it really it's like bitter people
I think it is really the ones that are attracted to the celebrity nature
of a political
Propaganda whatever where oprah wants to campaign for this woman
No, alex most people see oprah campaigning and that turns them off most people see barack obama campaigning that turns him
That turns them off. So they haven't got it yet
The same people that they've been using to get their agendas through that have usually been massively popular in the past and obama and oprah
You know a roseo donald's will notice how hillary trial balloons running for president again. Well, she's
She wants to run. I mean
If she's alive she'll run
I really think so
Who could challenge the the golden toad
No one maybe uh, maybe michael bloomberg, but probably not and probably no one
We could ask roger stone that question when we come back we should have opened the phones up today tomorrow
I promise open phones. We'll take some phone calls on the war room today
War room coming up with you in about 55 minutes
uh, you know, I didn't drop the ball today, but just
New x3 so good that i'm sitting here reading what it does
And it sounds like hype and I almost get embarrassed
but
It's true. I mean if you don't have iodine
in your body
you
Leave this plane of existence
And everything they do is to target it and suppress it
And so in our quest to get new deep-earth crystals we we found a new supplier
But then we talked to the top chemist and they said you need to add the other two small amounts a little bit of vitamin c to stabilize it
So it doesn't oxidize and last longer and is uploaded better. We did research. We did it
It's over a year in the making our big secret weapon because they try to cut suppliers off
So I had to get the deal done six months ago. I had to sign a long-term contract
I got a five-year contract to be able to get these oil companies
Just don't get this you know in their process even though it's worth a lot of money
And it's used industrially as a controlled substance not once we send it out
It's it's been aerosolized in the patented process, but the but the the deep-earth crystal
Is is a controlled substance is a precursor to
everything basically
It's a very it's a very active element
And then now it's even better the next two you look at the bottle and it says it isn't as strong
Uh, and and that's because you measure each one differently. We can make it as strong as we want to it's not about the cost
It's about what the FDA says, uh, you know, it's seen as safe. So uh use less use whatever you think use more
That's up to you use responsibly
It's a powerful element that they don't want you to have
Gee me why I want to get it and fund the revolution to beat the globalist a super win-win only a maniac idiot wouldn't do that
X3 at infowars store dot com
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official oil formula or just want an alternative
Info wars life has the formula for you
Ultimate krill oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the epa
dha and omega-3 is found in our high quality ultra pure krill oil concentrate
containing powerful antioxidants such as athazanthin and omega-3
Ultimate krill oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required dha and epa
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways including supporting heart health joint health and cognitive health
Aiding and regulating fat metabolism helping to maintain cognitive function and more
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas
We're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately. It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil
Now available at info wars store dot com
Live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
And
My god, we thought we were showing you footage of the big black guy threatening to rape me and kill me
But i'm bullhorning over it. So it's not that good. No wonder the crew never put it out weeks ago
I just said I was there put that video out
But somebody just sent oh an hd footage of him later saying i'm gonna murder people and hack them up and put them in the back
So trucks and i'm gonna rape everybody
Now the problem is there's so much cussing that he just ran off to go try to get it bleeped
And we got hours of this and we're just so busy. We never even put it out
But that's how it works. I play the crappy version the crew goes. Okay. We'll do whatever you say
They put it out
You barely hear what he's saying because you know i'm yelling back at him
But now we have crisp hd when i'm not there of him
I'm talking about murdering everyone and how he's gonna hack republicans up and put them in the backs of trucks
Now roger stone's got huge news. It's breaking right now
Uh, because again this whole molar thing is what they've bet their hold
The the elections illegitimate trump's illegitimate and then now they go. Oh, it's process
Uh, did you know did trump perjure himself? We're gonna look at all that but first since we mentioned this there's a bunch of clips
I didn't get to on the show
One of my did you know, we got like 50 clips is don lemon in three different clips
Seeing white people are inherently evil
And that white males are the problem on the earth now
This has been taught for decades at universities by weird white professors
Trying to create identity politics and minorities
So they never experienced the american dream and on their chip on their shoulder losers who are then mainlined in the prisons
And and then the real social engineers have it set up in the prisons to turn blacks and whites and everybody into races
Once you get there to control you
But I wanted to get roger stone's take on this because this is next level in the new york times ran a similar article
Saying whites are inherently evil. They need to die
Out for us to have a better world, but everybody wants to get into western countries
And I'm not saying whites are better than anybody but there's been major studies done even by the japanese and the russians and
Others and there's african professors that have noted this
Equatorial populations tend to not be too worried about long-term preparedness because hurricanes come by typhoons
There's plenty of food the big problem is you have a bunch of babies the neighboring island comes over and tries to kill you
Overpopulation generally the deal you have wars to keep that down
when you had an ice age for 15 000 years or so and
There was only you know a few hours a day you could go out if you didn't organize and you weren't times since everybody knows about
Northern europeans neuroses about time trains are all on time
You die
And so if you go higher whether it's asian or white or whatever it is
The preparedness the science the math IQ
Goes up
The worst your environment say like if you grew up on mars, I bet you'd be real smarter. You'd be dead
So so that's why the west is so horrible
But everyone wants to get here and then the west has this guilt so it's killing itself with a bunch of globalists manipulating it
But I'm going to play this clip and get roger stones take here it is
We have to stop demonizing people and realize the biggest terror threat in this country
Is white men most of them radicalized right up to the right
And we have to start doing something about them. There is no
Travel ban on them
There is no ban on you know, they had the muslim ban. There is no white guy ban. So what do we do about that?
Okay, so Gavin McGinnis who I really agree with almost everything said well, yeah, even though whites are age hidden
But below 40 or minority above above that, you know 75% of the country's white. That's not actually totally accurate
but the real fbi statistics are
After asians whites are the lowest crime rate group
Veterans and conservatives the lowest crime rate group period. So the idea that that that because some
national socialist jerk-off piece of crap
went in
and
Did this horrible heinous crime
to these poor people
The idea that that's now all white males are guilty is the most racist thing I've ever heard roger stone
What do you think about that before you're big breaking this?
I totally agree with you. Alex. This is the fault line in american politics. Uh, the fact that one
Uh, horrific act by one person is now being blamed on an entire race of people is absurd
The crime statistics kept by the fbi
Disprove that I guess my question to don lemon would be what about antifa?
What about the thugs that are attacking old people and women in our streets? But that is actually mainly white
The the point here is that that is a racist absurdity the greatest
Terrorist threat in the country today is not white males. It is outrageous that the proud boys
Uh, facebook page was taken down yesterday that they have been
Falsely branded as bigots or as racists or as a white supremacists
I would not associate with such people. That is a falsehood
Uh, let me ask you a serious question. What is the name of that cat?
Sylvester
Oh, no, that's actually orio. I apologize for that, but it is halloween. Apologize bring bring it over
He's not very sociable, but it's halloween. So he's very excited
Oh, really?
Uh
I normally black out my cats her name Sylvester, but orio is is is a good name as well
It looks like that cat's not been missing out on any meals
That's for sure. Uh, look, this is like stone's dog farm. We have two dogs three cats
Uh, the three cats were all strays that mrs. Stone has adopted. They have different levels of sociability
One of them's a feral cat. She's one of them. We know she's starving them
Uh, no, she's feeding them. Well, they better than I do. I tell my wife. I'm like, you feel as much food as the cats want
They're obese. It's abusive stop it. She was well, they asked for food because they're gluttons throw them outside
The cats go meow, meow, meow, meow, meow. It's like this gourmet food like every time in that like all you're doing is feeding cats
The cats are literally Garfield
It's kind of an analogy for uh, the welfare state and the uh, the socialism we engage here in america
It is like 5 a.m. I'll go stumbling into the bathroom and there's the fat cat like, you know, you know, and they're real nice
Because they want food occasionally it'll scratch me
And if I go in the kitchen to get coffee and it wants its food now it comes up and starts bitching at me
I'm sorry. We'll stop talking about cats. Let's get serious roger
You're taking over your big russian news in a minute
But I think we've got a red wave unless the election fraud is just too big and the portend we see
the omens the tea leaves with
Bulls sonaru and with Merkel out of power. This is really added to brexit and idly and everything else. This is looking really juicy
Well, the real question is will the internet censorship of of info wars and other conservative sites
The taking down of millions of freedom-oriented sites on facebook
Well, is that will that be enough to tip the election?
The democrats are hoping that that it is all of this internet censorship with info wars being the
Test case first out of the chute is based on a desire to affect next tuesday's elections
That is the precise point of it. I'm hoping that there is not enough censorship to uh to push back a red wave
But the democrats are counting heavily on our inability to communicate
Based on the internet so everybody's got to be energized and take everybody
You know to the polls take grandma put her in the wheelchair grandpa get down there tell your neighbors do it
Push people over the edge nicely not with threats in your neighborhood get active. This election is beyond critical
roger stone. You're taking over just a moment. Oh and tell people again monday. You're going to be
They've got to go to your twitter. They've got to email you at info wars army dot com
You're going to peacefully take over a bridge with huge banner hangs, but you need about 50 people to help do it
Yeah, that's right email at me at info wars army and on monday from 5 30 to 6 30 during rush hour traffic
We're going to hold signs up over the 35 interstate here in texas. It's going to have thousands of people driving through
It's going to be heavy with traffic. I've got 10 signs
They say record gdp growth under trump record jobs growth record record low unemployment vote red
Vote dem out info wars dot com band information. So I've got all the signs
I just need you to help me be there and hold them up. We're going to have hd cameras out there as well
We'll do a live stream. We'll talk to you. You can talk about why you like trump or what what you see going on
Share your opinion and never forget if you especially if you live in the atx around here
Maybe you can't go tell 20 people they can go just as important as going is telling people or if you're not in austin
And you're in somewhere in california or montana or illinois do your own things
Yeah, go to your local info wars army dot com will post the videos and i'm behind a week
I'm gonna announce the winners tomorrow of the great mpc meme. It's been very successful
We're gonna go to break and and and we've got
The the russian agent i'm joking. We'll say that's an admission
My comrade roger stone taking over don't forget without you spreading the links. We're dead. Thank you for your support
Hear that that's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place
And what they don't steal will be destroyed
This year resolved not to be the next victim of a break-in
Go to fake tv dot com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching tv
Even when you're miles away security is a mindset and fake tv should be part of your security solution
Be vigilant but not fearful fake tv dot com
The united states of empire is a book that claims the united states is the empire of the world
George washington had warned us against foreign wars
The united states of empire shows that world wars one and two left england broken
Its former colony the us had to save the empire. Was there ever a vote?
Who do we fight for the deep state began with world war one the united states of empire by james dunne
available at amazon books
Pain in my neck back and shoulders has really gotten worse
Relief for body pain is here with sunny bay heating pads. Well, the last thing I want is to take another pill
So what's so good about sunny bay heating pads sunny bay heating pads made by bio med db design right here in the usa
Come in all sizes our extra large microwavable heating pad for back pain is designed to be large enough to cover your entire back
It's also perfect to wrap around your legs knees or shoulder and neck, but I need to know their good quality
Of course sunny bay heating pads and pillows are often an amazon choice
And it's easy and most affordable when you purchase your sunny bay heating pads right from our website
sunshinepillows.com or call us 253 678 1361
Hey, a sunny bay heating pad would make a great gift, right? Yes, and they started just 1999 and free shipping is available
So call 253 678 1361 or shop for your sunny bay heating pad at sunshine pillows dot com
Living in volcano may sound more dramatic than it really is
The real drama can be found here in leilani estates
But a lot of us on the big island rely on rain water and we need to be concerned about ash and acid rain
Volcanic ash may contain heavy metal particles
And acid rain could lower the pH of the water to unhealthy levels to find out
We employed a series of tests for heavy metals
Alkalinity and pH what we learned was that there was in fact unhealthy levels of heavy metals and acidity in the rain water
Next we tested the water from our elixir pure gravity filter
And not only were the heavy metal levels within safe measure, but the pH was also restored to optimal levels
As it turns out the filter on the elixir pure raises the pH of the water
So what we've learned is that volcanic ash and acid rain can contaminate a rain water supply
But more importantly a good water filtration system will purify it
The real red pill plus ladies and gentlemen our team is constantly on the lookout for newer and better ways to improve our products
That's why we're bringing you a brand new version of one of the newest fan favorite products the real red pill plus
Real red pill plus is an all-new version of the powerhouse pregnant on product
It features the same great formula that supports your heart brain
Healthy aging process with an all-new natural caffeine boost included a powerful pregnant on base the real red pill
It could become one of our fellow infowars favorite products
Now with an extra proprietary energy blend inside including re-dx track and rematte leave extract
And more you can get that extra pick me up all supporting your mind and body in a healthy way
Got all the great stuff that real red pill has but it's also got the most in it
Get the real red pill plus at infowarstores.com
You're listening to the alex jones show
From the front lines of the information war it's rogers stone. You're listening to the alex jones show
Welcome back. I'm rogers stone sitting in for the great alex jones
If you go to the top of the drudge report now, you can see that evidently president donald trump and yours truly rogers stone
Are the two people who seem to be in the crosshairs of robert muller
I myself have been subjected to a torrent of illegal leaks from the special counsel's office and a
A tsunami of disinformation nothing has changed
But I still have to suffer the lies the slurs the smears of the far left
Let's take a look at msnbc for example
Another bombshell breaking in the muller probe is yes, there are tapes and muller has them. He's listening to rogers stone's conference calls from 2016
In the background of this entire race going forward the fact that julien assange who say anything you want to know
He's not a fool. He's going to continue to drop information on the american voters that are going to loyal this race
He's made that very clear that same day stone sent former trump advisor sam nunberg an email that stated
I quote dined with my new pal julien assange last night
Stone later said that was just a joke
But it was 70 days after that that he tweeted to the world quote trust me
It will soon be podesta's time and the barrel is if he was making all these claims in public and on these conference calls
Was any of it going back to the people running the trump campaign and on them?
He would talk about his relationship and friendship with paul manifold. He'd talk about the inner workings of the trump campaign
He also talked a lot about wiki leeks plans to release emails and he used the quote royal this race
And a witness in the probe jason solovan who helped him organize those conference calls said he claimed contact with julien assange
But it could also just be muller scrutinizing the number of times rogers stone claimed contact with assange as you as you play
Roger now says he never had contact with assange
But beginning in early august he talked a lot about being in touch with assange having a foreshadowing of the materials assange would release
He went on alex jones' show and said he knew what was coming
But he couldn't say too much at david corn who's all over the story
Well, I guess if you can get people testifying to private communications
Particularly people in a position of trust with rogers stone then that way have more weight than him just saying what he says on alex
Jones's show and rogers jones defense at this moment in time is that i am the world's biggest liar
I probably said again and again and again that i was in touch with julien assange
I knew what he was doing. Be honest david. Do you find that a potentially credible defense?
Yes, it is yes because like he is known for lying and being a provocateur and saying whatever
He thinks is necessary to say at that moment in time
He was also in touch with gucifer 2.0 that russian internet frisana that we now know was a russian intelligence
There you have it a recitation of the recycled lies
In over a 10-day period. I said three times including on the alex jones show that I had communicated with assange
As I clarified at that time and later under oath for the house intelligence committee that communication was through a
Third party. I identified that third party for the for the house intelligence committee
Uh, my communication with gucifer 2.0 is benign the 24 word exchange on twitter direct messages
Actually takes place after wiki leaks has already published the dnc material
Consequently based on content context and timing it is meaningless
And most certainly not any evidence of collusion or coordination
Uh, this is uh, uh the continued recycling of already discredited reports by my critics on the far left
The wall street journal reporter who you saw shall be holiday is well aware of the facts
You can actually read our entire exchange at stone cold truth dot com to see how she is engaged in fake news
in the meantime the
Washington Post reports that steve bannon uh went to before the grand jury and told the post that he was questioned about me
The point of this of course is that on october 2nd
When julia sange had a press event and did not release any material to the consternation of
A lot of the press we're watching including alex jones
He did say in that presser that he would specifically have a release for the next six weeks
Every week he laid out a schedule. I imparted that information to bannon via email
But it's not inside information. It had been published on politico hours before
But most in the media were reporting the fact that assange had nothing and would do nothing
That's not actually what he said in a subsequent exchange with matt boil a bright not barred news
He asked me whether what assange had was good and I said it is
That's based on the constant assurances of my source
Randy credit code that the material that wiki leaks had was quote devastating a bombshell would change history
Would destroy hillary. Those are not specifics. Those are generals. So what I did here is pretty clear
I used public sources including the wiki leaks twitter feed and the
Setting a google news alert for julie nassange
Reading every interview he gave and he gave many
And based on that solid tip from credit code. I pumped I bluffed
I postured and I hyped the democrats over the coming release of
The material which would indeed change the race
But I say it again. I had no advance notice of the source or the content of that material
I was operating on public information and that tip. This really grows tedious as these false accusations
Come out just before the election
One has to assume
That the purpose is to reinflate the whole russian collusion narrative
Since mr. Muller has produced no evidence of russian collusion
There is to this day no evidence or no witness who can honestly testify before the grand jury
Saying that I had advanced notice of the wiki leaks material
Alex jones was a contemporary in this he remembers my discussing
Uh, the fact that I was trying to learn more like every journalist or politico in america
This is indeed a witch hunt
Those of you who want to help me in this extraordinary battle can go to stonedefensefund.com
My legal costs are projected to be almost two million dollars this past week
I took a polygraph exam from two analyzed by two of the most prominent
Lie detector experts in the country who have concluded that I told the truth on all these questions
Regarding the disclosure of the wiki leaks material
I've made this information available to the new york times to the washington post to the
CBS to vice and many others
But you'll find it buried in an abc story
I stand by that and the fact that my testimony before the house committee was entirely truthful and accurate
In the meantime, if you want to help, uh, the fight for freedom
Remember the terrific specials we have going on at the info wars.com store
It is only your loyal support that keeps us afloat and moving forward as we are under a relentless attack
Uh, both in terms of harassment lawsuits and when it comes to censorship info wars is the tip of the spear
We are the cutting edge. We are the revolution and we need your support
The efforts to close down
This very forum to shut down this platform is an effort, uh, to silence me to silence alex jones ahead of next Tuesday's crucial election
Don't let it happen. Hi. I'm dan pilla. I started fighting the irs over 40 years ago when they tried to seize my mother's house
I sued the irs in one. I beat the irs then and i've been beating them ever since
I wrote the book on tax debt settlement and i've helped thousands of people deal with tax problems
They thought might never be solved. I can help you too. If you owe taxes, you can't pay. Don't wait another day
There's no such thing as a hopeless tax case call 800 34 no tax or go to my website danpilla.com
That's danpilla.com danpilla.com
Most of you know that heart disease is the number one silent killer in the u.s
What if I told you for just 54 95 a month you could fight against heart disease naturally at heart and body extract
We've been helping thousands of people get back to a healthier heart
Don't just take my word for it. Check out all of the success stories at hbxtrack.com or to order call 866 295
5305 that's 866 295 5305 hp extract.com. Don't risk it when you can take charge of it
Do you realize that when you spread the links from info wars.com when you spread the videos you are changing the world
it's you
That has defeated hillary and the globlest it is you the info warriors across the planet that stood against the bullying
That stood against the peer pressure that stood against the threats
That have now changed the world and that's why you've been on the team
Supporting us praying for us and spreading the word you are the info war and now because of their intensifying censorship
It's more important than ever
That everyone go to info wars.com forward slash newsletter and sign up via email
So there's no way the sensors can get between us with critical videos articles breaking news intel you name it
And so now I ask you more than ever to share the info wars.com articles to share the videos
To tell people by the local stations you're listening to the bare minimum
You can do is sign up for the free newsletter at info wars.com forward slash newsletter
We are the renaissance and we are winning
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day
To still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk
Believe me. I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every day
But thanks to supermail vitality at infowarstore.com. I still have that energy
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals and the food and water
To fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours to still have the stamina and endurance
Energy and drive to get to the gym get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health
So go to infowarstore.com and get supermail vitality before it's gone
This is actually our last run of supermail vitality
So I want you to experience supermail vitality before it's too late
Unleash the supermail and you
supermail vitality
Fueling your body is hard work
That's why we've introduced the info wars life daily digestive pack to help you fuel it right
Combine flora life everyday maintenance and carnivore to help you fuel your gut and body and take advantage of the powerful
Nutrients you receive. There's no better way to power your body
Flora life is a powerful probiotic supplement with 20 of the most potent clinically study probiotic strains when paired with carnivore
Our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip-top shape in the fight against stress age and outside toxins
There's no better time to try flora life and carnivore to see how well they can support your body
Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery try the info wars life daily digestive pack today
You're listening to the alex jones show
Live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show and now your host roger stone
Welcome back
I'm roger stone and you're on the alex jones show
Joining me shortly will be our special guest a close personal friend of the president
tana guertz who was one of the key strategists in
Donald trump's stunning victory in iowa and remains a senior advisor to the president's reelection campaign
I met tana at the republican national convention. I really can't forget it
Because it was at that exact time that alex jones and I were invited on the
Set of the young turks only to be bushwhacked and claimed that we were somehow
Invading their site that we were trying to break in where in fact we had been invited
It is a classic piece of television. You can find it on youtube
Uh, and just the other day tucker carlson sent me the youtube link and says that he looked back at it and had to laugh
Because it was so funny
We are in the final days before the election
And I don't want to underestimate the role that internet censorship is playing in the democrats campaign
What we've seen without any objection from the mainstream media is the wholesale censorship of libertarians
Conservatives trump supporters republicans and anyone who isn't a democrat seemingly
Yesterday the proud boys were taken off of facebook unilaterally
As were individuals who are members of that organization
We have seen pages with literally millions of followers on facebook
Just overnight decapitated with an explanation that you have
Violated our standards in some cases being accused of selling drugs over the internet or
Depicting acts of violence or sexual acts completely phony
This shows that they will push the envelope as far as they possibly can
Uh, and that the war on censorship is very very real
No one has been more in the crossfire of this than info wars
That's why I want to remind you that on this halloween
We need your support more than ever before if you go to the info wars dot com store right now
You will see the extraordinary
Specials that we have running
Uh, and that is really what funds us here at info wars. You see we don't have any
multinational corporate sponsors. We don't have
Any one source of funding we depend completely and totally on you
So let's look at some of these terrific products. My all-time favorite, of course, is brain force plus
This is a natural product now reduced at 1998
Uh, which gives you mental clarity and mental energy
At that four o'clock time of the day when you begin to have a dip
I find this to be a great product yet
You don't get that wired feeling that you get from the energy drinks that are laced with a fedrine and
Other uh stimulants. This is a smooth sustained mental energy and clarity that I think you will enjoy
6,017 other
Info warriors agree with me. This is one of the very best
Specials you can find. I also am very fond of silver bullet. Silver bullet
Is a colloidal
Silver product which boosts immunity. It has for centuries been known as an antibacterial and an antiviral
Uh, but the special electronic process used by info wars
Makes this a far more absorbable formula than other silver components that are on the market
This is one of the very best products
So again, I urge you to go to the info wars dot com store
And load up for your christmas shopping. It's the only thing that allows us to stay
Uh afloat here and moving forward and while you're at it
Grab a copy of my latest book stones rules. This is a manifesto for victory
This is an indispensable track for anyone who is in politics or business or media or fashion
Stones rules available at a terrific price at the info wars dot com store
If you buy your copy of stones rules at the info wars store
And mail it to me a special offer for info warriors only
It will be my privilege to sign it and send it back to you at my own expense
So you can go to the info wars dot com store now
Get your copy and mail it to me at this address
roger stone
po box
eight one three four five oh
four four two nine hollywood boulevard
hollywood florida
three three zero eight one
Three four five zero. We'll leave that up a second for you
You can get your copy of stones rules include in it your receipt
That shows that you got it on the info wars dot com store
And I will gladly send it back to you. This is the fifth book that I have written
Uh, my other books the clinton's war on women for example the jeb and the bush crime family also available at the info wars dot com store
So if you buy those and you want those autographed as well, send them along again
This is an offer for info warriors only
Uh, i'm roger stone. You're on the alex jones show
It seems like nancy polosi may be measuring the drapes in the white house a little too early
She tells fox news that she is confident that the democrats will take the house
I say it's too early to know
This will come down to a very small number of districts and a very small number of of votes
And that's why every single vote counts
Those who are relying on polling should keep in mind that any poll is merely a snapshot in time
It is only good for the episecond in which it is taken and that polls can differ in its in their results
Based on the order of the questions the wording of the questions the size of the sample the proper drawing of the sample and so on
One thing that all of the polls show is that this election is very close
And that the president has re-energized
His political base making this a far closer contest that it looked a few months ago
When democrats were claiming there would be a blue wave
I think I think the senate is now safely in republican hands. That would be my prediction
But the house is up for grabs. Let's make no mistakes about the democrats plan if the democrats win the house
They will enact articles of impeachment against our president almost immediately
I doubt they'll be based on any evidence of russian collusion because there is none
But we've already seen the dress rehearsal the dry run for what they have in mind
And the 19 women who falsely accused president trump of sexual assault in the 2016 campaign will be
Recycled in a show trial in the senate
We'll allow the new york times will pound away on the issue of donald trump's taxes where he appears to have
perfectly illegally avoided paying millions of dollars in taxes based on
The current tax law that doesn't show it. He's crooked. It shows that he's smart
But there will be yet another attempt to whip up a public hysteria about our president
This is what happens if we lose the house a few short
Days from now, which is why as alex jones put it a little earlier
It's vitally important that you get every true believer
You know out and then figure out who among your friends and associates your co-workers is
A friendly or is a persuadable and get those every those marginal extra votes to the polls every vote will count
I'm planning to head to austin for election night. I think it's going to be a nail biter
Anyone who tells you that they're certain about what will happen is blowing smoke. I'm roger stone
You're on the alex jones show. I'll be back with tana dirts on the other side. Thanks for joining us
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our official oil formula or just want an alternative
In full words life has the formula for you. Ultimate krill oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the epa
dha and omega-3 is found in our high quality ultra pure krill oil concentrate
containing powerful antioxidants such as athazanthin and omega-3
Ultimate krill oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required dha and epa
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways including supporting heart health joint health and cognitive health
Aiding and regulating fat metabolism helping to maintain cognitive function and more
And while other krill oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas
We're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality krill oil concentrate
Paired with our ultimate fish oil or used separately
It's time to see what krill oil can do for you with ultimate krill oil now available at info wars store.com
Our grandparents a great grandparents knows they can't food during the fall. So you have it during the winter
And that's what i'm talking about at info wars tour.com with info wars select. It's the full spectrum of my patriot supply on the top
Most respected companies out there, but because I private label it. I'm able to go
Below cost on contracts that all their other distributors aren't able to do but I want to be a market leader
And I want you to have storeable food. So it's a total win-win
We have those incredible sell prices back in four store.com on info or select storeable foods
They've got special diet foods. They've got three month supplies. Your supplies week emergency supplies
They've got so many great products there. Have you got a three year supply? If stuff happens, you can feed your whole block
It's up to us to be self-sufficient
You're buying war bonds bringing great products it together with God's help
We are unstoppable info or store.com and info or select high-quality storeable foods powered by my patriot supply
We are kept afloat only by your loyal patronage
And that's why we need you to go to the site now if you're not in the market for one of our greatest
Nutraceuticals, please consider a contribution
25 50 100
250 or even 500
dollars
Would be a godsend to our important work here to beat back the globalists and to destroy their campaign of censorship
In which they want to strangle our first amendment rights. Hey, how would you like to take info wars with you wherever you go? Well now you could do just that with the new official info wars end and here's the best part
Right now at info wars.com forward slash app app is the info wars official app taken on the globalist at point blank range
And with your help spreading it and with your help downloading it. We are unstoppable
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
But with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
And get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
That's info wars life dot com
You're listening to the alex jones show
My fellow americans, let me make this perfectly clear. You're listening to roger stone on info wars
Welcome back. I'm roger stone and you're on alex jones show right here at info wars
And now it is my distinct pleasure to bring on our guest
tana gertz tana gertz is a personal friend of the president and the first family for two decades
Here's what president trump himself said about tana
Tana is truly a star. She has that rare combination of laid-back charm and razor sharp execution
And she doesn't put up with nonsense tana. You sound a little bit like me
I'm delighted to have you here on the alex jones show. Welcome. Thank you roger for having me. I'm excited to be here with you
Now you first kind of became a television star in
2005 when you starred on The Apprentice as I recall you're the only person in the history of the show to never be
Fired but then you had a whole second career when you emerged as a key strategist for donald trump's campaign in iowa
And then a senior advisor to his campaign
I remember meeting you at the republican national convention when alex jones and I were actually
Invited on the set of the young turks which turned out to be an ambush
In a shouting match that you can still see on youtube
I know that you're like me like alex jones a fighter. Do you remember that terrific occasion?
I remember meeting you and I remember meeting alex and I remember the fight
I was right there right beside you doing radio as well with an la station and the fight broke out
And I was like who are these people like what are what are the young turks? I didn't even know who they were and
Couldn't understand why they were picking a fight with you guys and you and alex were fighters just like myself and
You were holding your ground and and there was there was chaos and and then you and I talked afterwards and it was just
It was it was amazing. I mean at the end of the day. We were making history roger
It was indeed a piece of history actually took a course and sent me this link
Which is up on youtube just a few days ago a marveling at how entertaining it is now
I thought going back to 1988
That donald trump had the stature the independence the size
I don't mean physical size although he's very tall and broad-shouldered to be a great president
And a lot of my friends in the political community made fun of me for that saying oh donald trump
He'll never really run. He's just trying to burnish his brand. He could never win
And here we have two years into the trump presidency
Amazing success. What first convinced you that donald trump could be a great candidate and a great president
Well, that's a great question
I met him for the very first time in 2005 as you mentioned when I was a contestant on his show
And I never wanted to go on the show for any other reason other than to learn from america's business icon donald trump
And and I went there and I had an amazing time
But as as the weeks were clicking often and people were getting fired left and right and I I got to spend more time with them
I realized this man
He's brilliant like he is super smart. He's so successful. I got to learn his mind
I got to learn what makes him tick and I realized
Uh, we're all very very similar like yourself myself donald trump the go-getters that that never quit that don't care what people think about him
You know, I'm not a billionaire yet
But he is and I I just wanted to absorb it all
And I acted as if I was a student of his and I had an 18 week business course learning from him. And so I saw
attitude and persistence and tenacity and all these characters that I thought wow
He could make a great president and he would make a great president
But I never thought he'd ever
Give up his plush life and you know his penthouse and and
The career that he had to go and and deal with the swamp creatures that he's had to deal with so I never thought he would do it
Because you'd have to be crazy to want to to want to make america great again because look at what's happening to him
So I knew he'd be great
But I didn't think he'd do it because I thought he had such a great life. Why why surround yourself with this toxic environment?
That he's been put under and I'm so happy he did though
Well, I think people underestimate his toughness. I think back to an interview he gave with oprah wimphrey almost 30 years ago
Which she said
What about politics donald? Do you think you'd ever run for public office? Do you think you'd ever run for president?
No, he said I don't think so
Unless things get so bad that I have no choice
And that's where we are today. I don't pump didn't run because he needed to be somebody
He didn't need to run because he needed to prove something
He loves his country and he saw us going down the drain and therefore he's serving at president as president
And at great cost to himself not only financial cost
But the vituperation and the personal attacks on him and his family are enough to turn your stomach
He is literally the toughest man
I have ever met in american politics and that covers richard nixon and ronald reagan and many and bob dole and many others
Go ahead
Well, I was going to say you said exactly what I said to him roger
I was just with them a couple weeks ago
And backstage with him, you know, I could say anything to him and I just looked at him
And I said president trump. I said, you are the toughest
Strongest man that I know those are the exact words that came out of my mouth and he was like, oh, thanks tannin
You know, he brushes it off like it's no big deal, but I'm like, no, I mean this you are so tough
I mean you and I are tough roger
But honestly day in and day out
Attacking of the family and your wife your children your looks your weight your mental capacity. I mean you name it
It's like at some point. I said to myself. I'm tough
But what I give in like what I cave after two years of this and just say, you know, what's through it
I'm going to go back to my life. I want to you know, eat top ron and I mean, excuse me
I'm going to eat filet mignon and not be like eating big max on the plane
I want to have my life back, but he does it and he does it for you and me in america
Well, the results I think are clear
Um, 4.2 million new jobs created unemployment at the lowest rate since 1969
Hispanic and black unemployment at the lowest
rate since those statistics began being kept, uh, the greatest wage growth in our history
Billions of dollars coming back in the country for reinvestment
Rebuilding our military strength as a deterrent
Uh redoing these multi international trade deals that serve our trade partners well
But suck the jobs out of america
I really think the president's done a good job
Of framing next tuesday's election as a difference between jobs
And mobs in dollars you have proven results. What's your what's your thoughts on next tuesday's midterm elections?
Well, I agree with you and what you said about everything that he's done. It's like show me another president that has that track record
Show me who has done all these amazing things. I mean, I'm a woman. I'm a small business owner woman owned business
And I couldn't be more excited to be a woman entrepreneur in in today's age
Uh, so I think it's amazing that he's going to these rallies and he's tooting his own horn because we know the fake news isn't going to report it
So, uh, I I'm very excited about tuesday. I've got my fingers crossed
That the republicans get out there and vote and don't just rest on our laurels that we've got a great president
You know as commander and chief doing the job because at the end of the day
He said to me how we looking in iowa and I said i'm scared to be quite honest with you
He goes, well, how did they win, you know
Two years ago. I said, uh, you that's how they won you were on the ticket and people went out and voted because of you
Now these people these politicians have to be worth something and a lot of them frankly aren't worth their weight
And and and they're i'm a little nervous. I pray that people get out
I'm telling people you got to get out and vote if you like your 401k if you like you having money in the bank
If you like where we're at with taxes and if you like having america be respected again for goodness sakes
Don't let the democrats get their power
Uh and and take it away from us because we are in for a treat for what's going to happen in 2020
So they got a vote
All right, so now you know why donald trump referred to tana guertz as the golden one
Thank you for joining us here on the alex joneshow you said it
Uh, and you said it best every vote will count and although donald trump is not on the ballot
You know the mainstream media and the fake news media will interpret this elections as a as a referendum on his leadership
It's the economy stupid as james carville once famously said tana guertz
Thank you for joining us here at the alex joneshow
Thank you so much for having me roger. Have a great day
All right, there you have uh the woman donald trump referred to as the golden one
A long time friend of the president and the first family and one of the architects of his extraordinary upset victory in iowa
I'm roger stone. You've been on the alex joneshow
It's halloween, so i'm going to remind you one more time go to the m4s.com store now and help gird us for the fight for freedom
We are under attack and we need your support as never before
Thank you god bless you and disregard the fake news when it comes to roger stone. Many thanks
Defending the republic from enemies foreign and domestic it's alex joneshow
So
We need to go back and revisit the foundations of our freedom
Our freedoms don't consist of the things that are enumerated on a piece of paper
It consists of the things that we're willing to fight for
The first amendment the bill of rights the rest of the bill of rights are prohibitions
They're prohibitions against powerful
Organizations and individuals taking those god-given rights from us as individuals you better understand that because they're taking them right now
We have seen what they want to do they called it unagent 21 now they call it the un 2030 agenda
They want everybody off of the rural lands. They want people out of the suburbs
They want to pack everybody into the cities because that's where it is easiest for them to control everyone
It's the david night show
Never missed your show
any day
I mean never
at inforce.com forward slash show
Please whatever you do realize that we're all getting punched drunk to the censorship and you saw 18 twitter accounts
They say affiliated with info wars. Yes, some of them are like little side accounts. They even know we had like info were stored
They just showed our products
But they just banned them all yesterday in punishment that I be in a trump rally and be mobbed by all these folks that loved us
Your excitement about america your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country and the world back from the brick
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future
I want to be troublesome and pesky. I want to keep going. I want to make them do the ultimate not just destroy us financially
I want to push all the way. I've committed to do that
I've prayed for that and I've been told that's going to happen
But you've got a back ish and I promise you this I will never falter
I will never waver at the spiritual level. I physically will but I give you my commitment if you financially support us
And force where I come to give you my absolute total commitment
You're listening to the alex jones show
