Waging War on Corruption. It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
It's Tuesday the 23rd day of October 2018. We are now 14 days, 2 weeks to the incredible midterms.
And just as I predicted, wasn't hard to predict by the way, it's a playbook.
The globalist plunged, starting with the Chinese market in 2008, just weeks ahead, 2 weeks ahead of the 2008 election to make sure it went to Barack Obama.
And now, 2 weeks exactly ahead of the midterms. 2 weeks from now there will be people voting.
Here in America, the stock market goes down more than 500 points and all these former Federal Reserve chairmen from Volcker to Greenspan come out and say,
it's the end of the world, it's going down. And guess who led the stocks going down in Monday and Tuesday's trading on the other side of the world?
The Chycoms who pump $100 billion a month into their fake stock market that is the most inflated the world has ever seen.
They led with not pumping money in the last week and not buying US Treasuries to do this bigger than Dallas, Texas, naked in your face.
Right on time, 2 weeks before to try to rattle the economy and now they're piling on everywhere in the globalist media trying to drive down the stock market, trying to kill the US recovery.
People are like, well, it is fiat, most of it. Yeah, and China's is even a bigger bubble. The point is we have globalist enemies trying to manipulate our economy.
That's an executable offense in China. So it just shows you how crazy it is.
There's another one. This is in mainstream Canadian papers. The Chinese military with the Canadian military just put super high tech subsensors in international waters right off the US coast.
Candidates stalls underwater Chinese modern devices in a joint operation against the United States. And of course they use university funding through the Chycom op to do it.
Ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, they had a understanding the rhetoric of Donald Trump and Alex Jones event with the city street shut down on Congress front of the Capitol.
I go down to the event. And when I started saying the USA is back, they literally started screaming and hessing last night with the anti Trump protesters in Houston.
I would just say America is back and they would all look like they'd seen Freddie Krueger that literally they would their skin would get pale like vampires to to to holy water.
And it just made me realize these people are crazy.
When we come back, we're going to play some of these clips of the president saying I'm a nationalist, I believe in doing what's good for our nation.
And they're literally all of the news, like he said, I want to feed babies into woodchippers. But that shows how whacked out the corporate media is the universities and these big corporations that are globalist.
That of course they have to have an anti American system America dominated the world through ideas 50 years ago.
We had 54% of the wealth that we were 4% of the population of the planet 4% out of 100%. We had over half the wealth because of ideas, because other places had elites that didn't allow competition and that censored.
But we had the Renaissance and we had America and we had 1776. So they are always attacking the American system because they can't compete with it.
And Donald Trump is bringing it back and the country's coming back. And they are literally flipping out. I can't believe it. It's so incredibly horrible.
This is the worst thing I've ever seen. Oh my God, Donald Trump. I mean, these quotes are incredible.
Trump declares himself a nationalist CNN says it's racist. You've got to go read the clips because you think he came out for child molestation, something Hollywood and HBO and vice have done.
But no, he didn't come out for child molestation like the corporate media has or like salon has.
He came out saying it's okay to love your country and they literally are acting like Linda Blair with their head spinning.
Folks, the China has announced official human clones for sale. It's all happening. They've been cloning humans for 30 years, but now they're about to roll it out.
Public, get a clone of yourself. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
Clinically study probiotic strains. When paired with carnivore, our incredible enzyme formula that helps you break down nutrients.
These formulas fuel your gut and your body to help you fight toxins and stay fueled all day.
These incredible formulas can help keep your body in tip top shape in the fight against stress, age and outside toxins.
There's no better time to try fluorolife and carnivore to see how well they can support your body. Don't miss out on the chance to fuel your body and support recovery.
You can try the Info Wars Life Daily Digestive Pack today.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're now only T-minus 14 days. That's two weeks until the middle of the most important election in world history.
A referendum on nationalism versus globalism. President Trump has declared himself the nationalist.
As I told you he would do last week. We're synced up.
Ladies and gentlemen, I went to the Trump rally yesterday. The first one I've gone to, when we had tickets to go inside and pass this as well, and Rob do went in and did great coverage.
And that HD video we're going to have for you right there in front of the stage. I mean right there, front and center.
But I was outside where 40,000, 50,000 people got turned away but watched on Jumbotrons. They were all asking, why aren't you inside?
And I'm like, it's 60 degrees out here and gorgeous. And this is where all the people are. And I'm getting to watch on the Jumbotrons and interview you.
But it's incredible footage where I really couldn't even do interviews. We have hours and hours and hours of incredibly good looking, diverse crowd of blacks, Hispanics, white folks, a lot of Asian Americans.
Very, very proud folks. All dressed nice. All super articulate.
And the most articulate people I ran into were all these black folks that you never see behind the stage with Trump.
Because the media goes, oh look, there's a token black guy that's blacks for Trump that goes around. That's because he wants to follow around his friends with the Trumps.
But I mean, I was mobbed by black people who were way better spoken than I was. I mean, the best speakers I've ever heard on Trump and that HD video is coming.
We've got hours and hours and hours of it. I was very, very impressed. I've got to go to more of these Trump rallies. I just get pinned down here.
90% of people would go, it's out of shoes. It's out of shoes. And take photos or anything. I mean, it wasn't like half of them were in full wars listeners.
And a good 10% were wearing in full wars shirts. So just no doubt, folks, you launched the Trump phenomenon and America coming back from the dead.
There's some of the footage do shot. You did it. You did.
And man, do they hate me, though. We had 18 Twitter accounts, a bunch that weren't even ours, people that restream us and stuff.
We're out there covering it, showing all this and showing the 15 anti-Trump demonstrators that showed up, screaming they were going to rape us and they were going to kill me.
We have all that HD footage we'll be playing today and tomorrow, but a lot of bleeping has to be done. It was insane.
We had the stupid Trump balloon from England floating around and the media was all standing around them.
And I said, watch the media is going to come over because I was, you know, they're covering the protesters.
I said, watch, they're going to come over here and say, oh, look, your crowd isn't big because no one was watching the anti-Trump demonstrators.
I'd come over there and about 20 listeners had followed me over. It was about three blocks away from the main convention center where this was happening.
The Toyota Center, I said to my crew live on there, I said, watch, the media is going to run over here and say, look, your crowd's small, no one's here for Trump.
And they all came over and said exactly that five minutes later. They all met. They all talked. What was going to be their BS line?
Okay, we're going to say this is who came out of the Toyota Center, 20 people with Alex Jones. And they walked over and did it. I know the enemy.
So they banished on 18 Twitter accounts and the headlines are Jones banned for saying no one died at Parkland shoot.
I guess they know people are sick of hearing about Sandy Hook over and over again and the twisted disinfo of the media puts out that I've supposedly said.
So they go to the big lie they tried four months ago when they said that I said no one died at Parkland. They're all crisis actors.
And they show quotes everywhere, but there is no quote. There is no audio or video. And I could say that if I wanted to, it's my free speech.
But think about that. Hundreds and hundreds of articles everywhere saying Jones banned and you read because he said no one died at Parkland.
And they were quote crisis actors. Didn't ever say that.
And there's these big celebrations. Yay, ban him taking completely off the air. These people are out of control.
But notice, see, this isn't three months ago when I was banned on those other platforms and it made all this big news. People are upset.
No, now they don't even deny that they're censoring. They're very, very proud of it. But everybody else being banned, you're not hearing about them.
And that's what's so dangerous about this. But I'm going to get more to that later. But here's the good news.
America is awake. The sleeping giant is awakening.
Here's the bad news. The people that look like escapees from a mental institution who were protesting against Trump all looked completely like they were from central casting from one who flew over the cuckoo's nest.
And they were all screaming the most vicious hateful crap you can imagine. KKK go away, no borders, no walls, no USA at all.
And when I would say USA's back, it looked like I was tearing their guts out.
And the bad news is they're backed by big tech. They're the type of folks that manage all the censorship and they are getting more and more radicalized and more and more dangerous.
They're the ally with the communist Chinese, the unelected Soros, the unelected EU had Yunker.
And they're making their move right now against this country.
And the good news is people are awake. The bad news is I saw all these incredible people out there saying, hey, I still tune in at infowars.com.
But when you get back on YouTube or Twitter, and I'm like, listen, I'm being purged. You're being purged. Use these platforms and fight against them and build your own platforms.
If you had those 100,000 people that showed up in Houston, it was about 100,000 total. It was incredible.
If they were all setting up their own websites, but also using Twitter, using Facebook, using Google to fight back, the censors could never stop them all.
But they're all counting on, oh, look, it's Alex Jones. Thank God you're here. You woke me up. You exposed global government.
You explain globalism versus nationalism. We can see that, you know, Trump is rebooting everything you're talking about.
You woke up my husband. You woke up my daughter. You know, they woke me up and I'm saying, yes, that's great, but now you have to get involved.
And it's great to come out to a Trump rally. And it's great to do it, but shoot a video. Talk about an issue.
Reach out to your neighbors. Get them to vote because the illegal aliens are voting in mass. There's massive corruption taking place.
And we could lose this election not because the country's not awake, but because they're mailing absentee ballots of people that have been dead for decades to people I know.
Other talk show hosts we have online, Joel Gilbert and family, and it's all over the news that all over the country, everyone's getting these absentee ballots filled out in Spanish.
So just imagine what's happening. The establishment is going all out, ladies and gentlemen.
Now, you notice it was China 10 years ago in 2008 on this very day, two weeks out from the election, that stopped pumping money into its stock market.
And then that triggered a bunch of stuff over here with Lehman Brothers and all the rest of that. But that was just the cover story.
It was really in the China markets, the Asian markets. Same thing. China market drop leads world stocks lower. Yahoo News, AP.
Global banking stocks are crashing hard just like they did in 2008. They're doing this ahead of the election. It's totally staged.
That's coming up. Trump's incredible speech on nationalism and how it's freaking out the globalist and their leftist slaves.
Obama goes and talks to a tiny crowd. They edit the video to be deceptive. Rubzreport.com is top link to us with the proof that he had a crowd of maybe a thousand people.
Maybe. It's amazing. That is just some of the information we're going to be breaking down.
Sacramento B admits the Democrats hire crisis actors to fill their stadiums and there's lawsuits now involved.
We're going to be breaking all that down and more plus huge stacks of proof of massive election fraud.
But before we go to break, remember, without you sharing the links, without you sharing the videos and articles at infowars.com on your email, your Facebook, your Twitter,
we will not have a voice and this key tip of the spear American reboot will be destroyed.
If you don't realize how earnest it is, how two minutes to midnight is and how you're critical, infowars.com.
Whatever you do, keep sharing that with people and saying, this is the verboten information. This is what they don't want you to have.
It truck stops and it colleges and on the street and it church infowars.com.
The reboot of America is nothing where we've come so close, but we're still not over the top.
And remember, our mega sale has to end this week. Free shipping store wide, 50% off on all the supplements.
It has to end final days of the super sale.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Remember your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com. Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
To find yours, visit Gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Gene Company.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
One of the most incredible cups of coffee can be found in the high mountains of southern Mexico,
where the Chiapas farmers have spent years perfecting their techniques.
Faced off hundreds of years of traditional techniques and perfect conditions,
we've sourced only the best to provide you with our immune support and Wake Up America Patriot Blend coffee.
Ancient Mayan knowledge is shared with the natural fertility of the land to generate the world's finest coffee beans.
Carefully harvested and free of toxic chemicals used in big agricultural productions,
Patriot Blend coffees have a smooth, bold flavor with great depth to give you just what you need in the morning.
You can even choose to start your morning healthier with the immune support blend,
infused with a powerful blend to support your immune response and stamina.
It's time to take care of your morning routine. Get a bag of Patriot Blend coffee to support the show
while enhancing your morning routine at infowarstore.com.
InfoWarsLife is launching its newest product. We're really, really proud of it.
It's a best source, prebiotic fiber, and it's got the very best concentrated fibers from berries and fruits
and other compounds that have been known to be the very best for your body and for regularity and so much more.
And it synergistically works with our 50 billion live active culture for a life,
as well as MycoZX that targets the yeast, the mold, and the funguses in the gut.
So this is the time to take advantage of getting this new incredible fiber product and these other products.
You get them separately or together and make really, really big savings and get high quality products at the same time.
Doing this to introduce these products to you. Bodies sold out in a month.
Strongest concentrated turmeric formula we can come up with. It's sold out for another month and a half.
We sold it at 50% off till it's sold out.
And I think it's going to be the same way with this fiber. Get yours today in FoursLife.com.
Tonight it's Alex Jones.
A globalist is a person that wants the globe to do well, frankly, not caring about our country so much.
And you know what? We can't have that. You know, they have a word. It sort of became old fashioned.
It's called a nationalist. And I say, really, we're not supposed to use that word.
You know what I am? I'm a nationalist, okay? I'm a nationalist.
National. Nothing. Use that word. Use that word.
I would call in the military and I would seal off the border. I would close up the border.
If that happens and if that continues to move forward, the caravan we're talking about, which is, I think, a man-made caravan.
You want to know the truth. I think some bad people started that caravan.
More importantly, or maybe almost as importantly, you have some very, very bad people in the caravan.
You have some very tough criminal elements within the caravan.
But I will seal off the border before they come into this country.
I'll bring out our military. Not our reserves. I'll bring out our military.
Donald Trump is an anti-Christ, this man says. If he doesn't repent, he's going to hell.
We are not criminals. We are workers and fighters.
We're live broadcasting worldwide. Thank you for joining us on this Tuesday edition.
When I start the next segment, I'm going to do my very, very best to really focus here and really deliver the key message.
I'm going to try hard.
Because if Americans don't get this message, we're going to go to total slavery.
We are being militarily and corporately conquered by a criminal global consortium that absolutely has it out to break our will and destroy our families
because they have a metaphysical goal to destroy the potential of America and its Christian destiny.
And they want to rob that destiny from you and your family.
The Communist Chinese are deliberately plunging their stock market right now to bring ours down 14 days out from the election.
That's clear. We predicted that that would happen.
I said two weeks out from the election on record.
And I also have clips coming up of them absolutely demonizing and attacking the president for calling himself a nationalist.
We're going to play a longer clip of that coming up for you in the next segment.
I'm tempted just to play old Trump's speech. That way it all gets out.
And then I'm also going to get into what I think they're going to pull in the next 14 days before this election.
Then we have a large stack of news in the final segment of this hour that is probably the most critical at this juncture.
And that is the election fraud that's taking place for the Democrats publicly.
And then there are bizarre denials about it and claiming that Trump is insanely making things up.
So that is going to be coming up as well.
So we're going to be breaking all of that down here today.
But I'm going to say this again to listeners.
Authoritarianism has come to this nation.
The brainwashed left are living on another planet.
And we can't just sit here and laugh at them anymore because they're organized with big corporations, big tech,
the Communist Chinese, the unelected EU, the America Hating Hollywood in a coalition that hates this country and that hates your prosperity
and is born and bred to try to take you down.
That's who they are.
They're the collaborators.
They're the traders.
And they have formed a giant army in this country.
I'm going to say this very, very clearly to everybody right now.
The Democratic Party and its affiliates and its supporters are globalists.
They are multinational minions.
They are the equivalent of enemy armies already in this country.
And that's why they want open borders.
And the leftist groups that the UN formed in Honduras and Guatemala by the hundreds of thousands,
waving their foreign flags, burning American flags, calling the president the Antichrist,
they are a leftist mob that says they are on a mission to take this country down.
So this is the reality of what we're facing.
And they want me off the air not because I'm inaccurate.
They want me off the air because I am accurate.
Eric Trump's wife made the point they're not trying to destroy my father because he's a loser.
They're trying to destroy my father when he's trying to do because he is a winner.
So that clip is coming up in the next segment as well.
But this is really do or die.
And the energy level in this country is so incredible and what's happening is so amazing.
And the destiny we're choosing right now is so epic and intense.
I just almost can't even be on air.
It's just the epic times we're in.
People overuse the term epic, but this is epic upon epic.
And there's either people becoming more awake or people becoming more sluggish and more unconscious.
And the amount of anti-human garbage going on is unprecedented.
China has been having human animal clones in the laboratory for 30 years.
That's admitted.
I talk about it, mainstream media makes jokes about it.
Now China is going to roll out on the market human clones.
China has cloned 20 different dog breeds.
Humans are next.
They're going to bring two term and they're going to sell them.
So that's being reported today by mainstream news.
That's all coming up.
So when we come back, I'm going to lay it all out as best I can.
I'm going to get really focused here.
And I'm going to go over the facts of what we face and the point we've reached.
But think about how far we've come together.
That we've got a president talking about nationalism versus globalism and human destiny versus tyranny.
The only thing he said that wasn't true.
Is that globalists care about the whole world, not their own nation state.
So globalists are multinational corporations that don't pay taxes.
They play authoritarian countries off against once free countries in their own white papers and admissions.
It is a 21st century corporate technocracy takeover in their own words.
It is pure evil.
Now, your financial support of this broadcast is just as critical as you spreading the articles, the videos.
You want to win, that's what you got to do and it's fun to do because it absolutely overrides the evil will of George Soros and others.
But the financial support is critical and we make it easy with great award-winning products, highest rated products, T-shirts, books, films, air filters, water filters, all the best systems and great supplements, free shipping store-wide,
50% off on all the supplements, 35% off on high quality, storeable food, but the specials have to end in the next few days.
It's Christmas, it's Black Friday, everything rolled into one.
They've been trying to shut us down so I need to get rid of a lot of our inventory we had going into Christmas.
But we have gotten extra payment processors by the glory of God and so now we're going to have to back up on these super specials.
But thank you all for the support, take advantage of them right now at infowarstore.com or AAA-253-3139, whatever you do, take action.
This event is the first of its kind ever.
John Boehner and an esteemed panel will reveal which cannabis stocks are primed to deliver life-changing windfalls in the weeks and months ahead.
Plus, they will show you how to become a cannabis angel investor backing the hottest startups before they potentially become worth billions of dollars.
To join American Cannabis Summit, text JOIN to 44055.
Attendance is free.
Text JOIN to 44055.
We all know the importance of fish oils.
While we are sure to provide them for ourselves, it's just as important to make sure your kids get their EPA and DHA too.
Honor Roll is a powerful DHA fish oil formula for your child.
Built from the ground up to support your child's development.
This formula uses wild anchovy fish oil, ultrapurified krill oil, and wild salmon fish oil with vitamins to boost your child's mind and body.
With this fish oil formula, you can support your child's optimal heart, joint, cognitive, and brain health while providing DHA,
which has been shown to be essential for your child's brain growth spurts.
Built on powerful ingredients with 580 milligrams of high DHA omega-3s, this formula is highly refined to eliminate nearly all heavy metals.
If you're looking for a formula to help your child grow, look no further.
Try Honor Roll from InfowarsLife at InfowarsStore.com.
It's really hard to have the energy at the end of the day to still get to the gym or to go for a run or go to the park or heck even take your dog for a walk.
Believe me, I know I spend hours in front of a screen and then hours in front of bright lights every day,
but thanks to SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com, I still have that energy.
There's no way I could have the energy at the end of a long day to fight back against the chemicals in the food and water,
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours,
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive, to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to InfowarsStore.com and get SupermailVitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of SupermailVitality, so I want you to experience SupermailVitality before it's too late.
Unleash the Supermail and use SupermailVitality at InfowarsStore.com.
We've already had incredible success, but if you will simply realize how epic this is
and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos at Infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at InfowarsStore.com right now,
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart, get stuff shipped out to you, despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, Sorrel's the global Spain win.
This is Infowars Darker Sour, with your support, I'm counting on you.
The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on, or you will mind.
We're 14 days out. You can cut the suspense with a knife in the air.
And if you think things are positive, they are.
It's like, Grandpa has a heart attack and he gets defibrillated and he comes back to life, but he's still got heart problems.
See, countries aren't like people, they can be reborn, they can have true turning points.
And we're at a major political and cultural and spiritual realignment, a renewal, and the globalist forces that had pretty much conquered this nation to a great extent still have major beachheads in our culture, in our souls, in our minds, in our families, in our systems.
And they know that like the proverbial face sucker in Alien, they're being removed from our face.
And so they're getting very, very aggressive and very, very bullying, and they're censoring, and they're engaged in every form of authoritarianism, and they're using every excuse that authoritarians always use for their censorship, for their violence, for their brutality,
for their attempt to bankrupt their opposition, because they can't win the political and cultural argument.
So imagine President Trump says, I'm a nationalist, I believe in America, I believe in our country, and I believe we just can't have completely open borders,
and then let a bunch of people burning American flags, waving foreign flags, who rampaged over and beat up a bunch of police, march all the way up and into our country,
and then open up a lane for unlimited amounts of other people to come in.
And that's what happened.
Last Thursday and Friday, the news, the enemy news, the globalist news was saying there were 200 people on the Guatemalan border with Mexico.
I mean, I could look at it and watch the hours of footage and tell you it was 50,000 if it wasn't 100,000.
It went on for miles and miles and miles and miles and miles and miles.
And I told you that the UN has other refugee centers already getting the next group ready.
And what is in the news right now that more migrant waves are coming up now that were already staged in Honduras and in Guatemala?
Of course, it's a UN operation.
They did the exact same thing starting six years ago in Europe.
I've been covering it here every day on air, six, seven days a week I'm on air.
We know every angle, you know every angle of this.
You know, Louis Gohmert's up there going, well, maybe Soros is funding it.
And I like Louis Gohmert.
He's been on the show.
He's a great guy.
But man, World Net Daily, others, we've got all the articles, all the admissions with Soros and his open foundation and care and the Carnegie Endowment
and the Rockefeller Endowment.
It's all U.S. universities, professors and migrant studies down there running it, Gohmert.
The Mexican president elect.
Now the president said he would use this as a weapon to break the U.S.
Mexico's acting like they're against it.
What they sent, 20 cops to stop 50,000 people and wonder why they got beat up so they could act like, okay, Trump, you're going to cut our funding.
Here, we'll send 50 cops when we can stop these people.
Mexico controls that border.
They've got over 10,000 troops just on the Guatemalan border.
Tanks, you name it.
They could have stopped it all.
They didn't.
Because the Mexican president, we wrote about it in July.
President-elect in Mexico says they're going to use migrant waves to break down the borders of the U.S.
This is our country under attack.
And the media always shows little kids and stuff that even the Mexican police estimate that they are 80% military aged men.
And they use the babies and people as shields.
And many of them are criminals, the lowest educated coming out of those countries.
That's the reality.
And then our president gets up there and says, really with a soft angle that, oh, globalism is about everybody and the whole world's good.
No, it's not.
It's about driving down wages, about mega corporations paying no taxes.
It's one thing Trump said yesterday that wasn't true.
And it's at war against nation states and middle classes and prosperity.
It's a vertical global integration of total power.
They call themselves technocrats at Davos.
They are allied with the Communist Chinese with their planned nightmare economy.
And America is under attack putting up a fight against this.
And we've only got a beachhead and most Americans are either on the fence or they don't think it's that serious.
And they're letting a powerful minority of mainly white, pseudo-intellectual, power tripping professors and government employees go out and race bait and ally with China and these traders.
All these people saying no borders, no walls, no USA at all, no USA at all.
You go to any Democrat group, even main language.
You bring up the USA's back, the economy's back, they get pissed.
No Trump, no wall, no USA at all, no Trump, no wall, no USA at all.
That's their goal.
They are conquering the nation.
And you're like, they're a bunch of idiots.
No, they've got the power behind them and us sitting there and putting up with it is going to allow our destruction.
You're being conquered right now.
So Trump declares himself a nationalist and they call it CNN's all brothers.
I can't believe he said that.
It's like, I can't believe they put mother and father on the entrance exams.
That hurts people that don't have mothers and fathers.
I can't believe he calls himself a boy.
What if someone doesn't see themselves as a boy?
They even breathe air too.
Oh my gosh.
And they said the sky was blue.
All this feigned garbage we're going to play coming up.
Trump declares himself a nationalist.
CNN says it's racist.
You got to go read this article.
That's Steve Watson.
He says globalist is codeword for Jews.
Oh yeah.
Trump's really anti-Semitic.
The president of the United States openly identifies himself as a nationalist.
Hulls for jailing of his political opponents.
No, he doesn't.
Attacks the press and calls these up with dictators while Republicans in Congress stand out of the way by this stake.
So this election could never be higher for democracy.
Robert Reich.
Everything he says what the Democrats are doing, they work for the foreign powers.
They're trying to censor.
They're trying to arrest their opponents.
That's why they could be arrested because they're actually authoritarians.
Okay folks, I'm still stuck on Trump saying out loud at a rally tonight that he's a nationalist.
Let's not let this get lost in the chaos.
This is a big admission which should terrify us all.
They're terrified of America, of borders, of their own social security that all these illegals are going to drain.
They're nihilist.
What Trump did tonight is finally finish the rhetorical journey.
He acknowledged what he's been the whole time, a nationalist.
One of many in the world, he frames politics in transnational and deeply nationalistic terms,
focused on the perceived threats of his concept of a nation.
Robert Costa.
And it goes on.
Oh my gosh, this is just, oh, oh, oh, it's so bad.
Can you imagine, in fact, let's play a clip here.
Here's Don Lemon, slams Trump for using the word nation.
What's the word nation?
Mother, father, boy, girl, USA nation, God, country, Jesus.
These are all the things that trigger them.
And you go look at them.
They all look like a bunch of narcissistic mental patients.
But you know what?
They've conquered us as part of the clip.
Wow.
I'm a nationalist, nationalist.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight.
It is a favorite of the alt-right and is loaded with nativists and racial undertones.
And globalists, well, globalists have been used as a slur of sorts.
Sometimes even against those in the administration, often with anti-semitic overtones, which has
happened to make the president come right out and embrace nationalism openly and claim
that mantle.
What has happened here?
That's gaslighting, folks.
Massive leftists, these demonstrations, they just look at them and they smile and laugh
like, like, I'm in junior high and feel bad.
I've been laughed at by the pool kids.
Like, can you believe Trump?
He says we're a nation.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula or just want an alternative,
InfoWarsLife has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and
Omega-3s found in our high-quality, ultra-pure Crill Oil Concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants, such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s, Ultimate Crill Oil
can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health,
joint health and cognitive health, aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain
cognitive function and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas, we're giving you the
benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified, high-quality Crill Oil Concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately, it's time to see what Crill Oil
can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil.
Now available at infowarsstore.com.
For more information on Crill Oil, visit our website at infowarsstore.com.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated,
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family
use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured you're fighting the Info War
so it's a total absolute sure-win, no-lose equation.
Try Alpha Power, exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.A.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
Years ago, Info War's Life created the powerful MycoZX formula to help you combat internal yeast.
As the years went on and more toxins were pumped into the environment,
our team knew we had to create a bigger and better formula to help support your gut health.
MycoZX Plus is the result of the search for that formula.
A unique natural formula designed to support the body's natural cleansing of yeast and fungal organisms,
there's no better product to help your body fight back.
MycoZX Plus helps support a healthy microbial balance in the body,
supports your digestive tract, and addresses the intestinal yeast that can cause you problems if it goes unchecked.
Powered by an impressive list of ingredients, including grapefruit seed extract,
poudarco bark, and grape seed extract,
our formula is fueled by ingredients that stood the test of time as powerful microbalancing properties.
Pick up a bottle of the new and improved MycoZX Plus today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
If you want to see the 18 videos or more that were banned by Twitter yesterday,
you can just go to infowars.com.
Twitter goes nuclear bans to 18 info wars linked accounts.
Watch the forbidden content here.
See the videos Twitter wants to hide and share them to join the battle against censorship and against the globalist,
because we of course had the videos saved on our phones that had live streamed.
So the good part is a lot of them are in HD as well from the big epic,
biggest Trump rally ever if you don't count the inauguration that had a couple million people at it.
So that is very, very important.
That's on infowars.com.
That only gets out if you get it out.
They are fighting around the clock to stop not just us, but others.
But this is on our platform and it's also on real.video.
And so a lot of these videos are getting hundreds of thousands of views because you're sharing them.
And they've even been harassing real.video and harassing us and trying to figure out how to shut that down.
And calling up and threatening Mike Adams employees.
They've had the mainstream media doing that.
So this claim that, oh, we're just banning you off our own corporate things is boulder dash.
It is a concerted global mafia attack.
I mean, you've heard right that all 50 private or state run universities here in the United States are getting government funding from China
to basically push anti Trump, anti America, anti free speech agenda.
And it's also in the news that Canada has installed underwater Chinese monitoring devices outside of US sub base.
So the Canadian government is now in active warfare against the United States.
I mean, China is quarterbacking the entire enchilada.
And look, I'm going to be honest with you, I am so upset about what's going on.
And things are so charged and so epic.
And the decision we're making right now is a culture so big that I almost can't be on air at this point.
I mean, I do all this preparation and then I have to all this research and then I get so angry by the information and so disgusted that I just have trouble even talking at this point.
I can't believe there's so many traders and pieces of crap in this country that actively have an inferiority complex with the Republic and a spiritual hatred of it.
And it's spiritual because they will go out of their way to destroy this country and their own future because they have some existential envy that they have to act out.
Working with the worst, most murderous, radical Islam, orthodox Islam, the Chai Khoms, Yunker.
And it's like Yunker's the heir to the top Nazis.
It has all the stolen wealth and Soros is.
And it's like it's so crazy that everyone we're fighting are like super villains and their whole histories are pure evil.
And then the good guys are under attack.
Let me explain something.
I don't feel sorry for myself being lied about and demonized. I know I'm in a war.
And I feel good to see America waking up and coming back from the dead to a certain extent.
But you know, people should be way more active and way more aggressive.
Because this is serious, folks.
This I mean, we're fighting people as bad as Hitler and Stalin and Mao combined.
I mean, they are really wicked.
And they are doing horrible things to our genetics. They're doing horrible things to our environment.
The things the globalists are up to are so out of control and so bad it makes the head spin.
And Trump's got to slowly introduce you to this.
He's got to slowly introduce the public.
I'm the test pilot. I hit the barbed wire.
Trump comes in and then mainlines it and says it's okay to have a flag.
It's okay to say mother and father.
It's okay to have sovereignty.
It's okay to be successful.
It's okay to have a mother and father.
It's okay to love God.
And look, we're a big crowd of people and we're together and we have solidarity.
We're of every race, color and creed and we love liberty and we're unified by our red blood.
And to those of us that are advanced patriots that are awake and informed and involved and know what's going on,
we're like, that's like baby talk.
But he's talking to a lot of babies and he's mainlining Americana and common sense to them.
And so that's why what Trump's doing is so precious and I'm so thankful for it.
But then I see how he's surrounded by a bunch of double dealers and cowards
because he's having to draw from people that are in the system
to even know how to run things because the whole system is in rebellion against him.
And it just makes me sad to see America in this position.
Again, it's mixed feelings. Good things are happening.
Coming back from the dead, but still it's so cut and dry that people fighting against this country,
people fighting against the reassertions of our Republic are not Americans.
They're globalist. They want to overthrow the country.
They're allied with the most murderous regimes in history and they know they're involved in a conquering operation.
I have stacks of news here where it's military aged men, 80% of them in the caravan,
calling in an operation to break our border and to bring down the USA.
And they're part of the very affiliated groups and universities that have the chant,
no borders, no walls, no USA at all.
It's cut and it's dry.
And that's why it's an abomination when people come up to me on the street and say,
man, how are you taking it? You must be down. You must be depressed.
No, I'm ready for war. I'm on fire to fight and pissed.
I can't figure out how to get more leverage to beat these people.
That's how I feel. Not like I'm getting my ass kicked, but that I'm in a total war
and I just can't swing fast enough to take these people down politically.
I mean, where are your instincts? Where is your common sense?
And I know our audience is hardcore.
I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to new listeners and sell out to the establishment.
But it's a spiritual thing.
And misery loves company and these people are trying to destroy us
and we have to stop laying down to them.
We have to stop going along with the globalists and their minions
and we have to stop trying to placate them and be friends with them
and sit here and play nice. They're not playing nice.
They're a bunch of bullying, evil jerks.
And they now know that Info Wars has the spirit, the program, the code to relaunch it all.
And that's why they treat us like we're death because to them we are death.
To George Soros and to Hillary Clinton and to Barack Obama and to Lord Rothschild,
you understand I'm the grim reaper.
Come to their door. I'm death.
And I am death and they know it.
I'm death of their system and you're death to them.
They really just love life.
But see, to them we're death because if they can't suck off our unborn
and if they can't piss on our families and deface everything,
the little horrible demonic gremlins they are, it doesn't make them feel good.
Only when they're strangling innocents in some satanic basement.
Only when they're torturing toddlers to death, literally, do they feel alive
in their psychotic dream.
And I've interviewed the top psychiatrists that have interviewed the top serial killers.
It's like blazing white light when they're doing horrible things.
They're totally depressed and tortured when they're not because they're possessed.
And if we won't stand against these possessed people, then we deserve to be enslaved by them
and God will hold us in judgment for allowing them to endanger the innocent and the children.
So I tell you now, those of you that have stood idly by, your soul, your immortal soul is on the line.
And if you don't stand for the unborn and if you don't stand for the innocent
and if you don't stand against these monsters, when you stand before God,
God will say, I know you not, you didn't do anything.
When the Holy Spirit touched you to fight these people and you were of the devil.
So go back from which you came forever.
You are not amongst us.
You belong to death eternal.
We've got a bunch of Trump clips and a total proof of election fraud next hour
and I'm going to get focused and cover it all.
Please, please don't forget that if you don't support this broadcast,
we'll be shut down and we make it easy with the very best products.
And we've had a 50% off sale and free shipping, the biggest sale in our history,
and it has got to end the next few days because we're selling out a lot of our best selling products
and because we are hurtling into the whole Christmas season.
So it's a great time to take advantage of these super sales right now.
Free shipping store-wide, 50% off on all the supplements,
35% off on the highest quality storeable foods at infowarstore.com right now.
And you support the broadcast and that lets us stand against the enemy, which infuriates them.
You know how angry it makes the globalists that they've thrown everything they've got at us
and at many levels we've just gotten stronger.
You know how scared they were of all those live videos of 90% of the Trump supporters
being huge infowar supporters, it scared them to death.
It's why they want to extinguish us, but you won't let them.
X2, we were selling it for about three years and then they found out how big it was
and how much we were buying and they said, oh, we want more money, more money, and oh, this and that.
And so I've broken my contract.
And right now we can't get more of this proprietary ingredient that goes in X2
that literally is so pure that if you put it in a peaker dish on top of 90 degree hot plate, it gasses.
Like I dream of genie and there's this purple gas.
I mean, that is so pure, it just goes right into your body when you take it.
We're working on trying to get other suppliers right now, but I bought a huge amount of it,
ordered it six months ago, so I get the price down.
I said, if you don't lower it, I'm done, I'm breaking the contract.
Well, I wrote the contract last week.
And so this is potentially the last run.
In fact, right now it is the last run of survival shield X2.
And we've got a good supply of it.
It'll be gone in a couple of months.
X2, if you haven't experienced it, M4store.com.
If you have experience, you know how great it is, I suggest you stock up on it.
It's available right now for a limited time at M4store.com right now.
Our grandparents, our great grandparents knew that they can't food during the fall, so they'd have it during the winter.
And that's what I'm talking about at M4store.com.
With M4Select, it's the full spectrum of my Patriot supply on the top,
most respected companies out there.
But because I private label it, I'm able to go below cost on contracts
that all their other distributors aren't able to do.
But I want to be a market leader, and I want you to have storeable food so it's a total win-win.
We have those incredible sell prices back at M4store.com.
M4Select, storeable foods, they've got special diet foods, they've got three-month supplies,
your supplies, weak emergency supplies.
They've got so many great products there.
And you've got a three-year supply.
If stuff happens, you can feed your whole block.
It's up to us to be self-sufficient.
If you're buying war bonds, bring you great products,
and together with God's help, we are unstoppable.
M4store.com, M4Select, high-quality storeable foods, powered by my Patriot supply.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
All right, I'm going to try to be a disciplined individual when we come back in the next segment
so I have more time, and I'm going to get into the magic wand statements of Obama,
and how that's been countered by Trump.
And we're also going to look at a story that's on DrudgeReport.com, photos,
numbers at Trump Rally, dwarf those at Obama event.
We're going to show you how the mainstream media then comes in and zooms in with the camera from the front
to make it look like a bigger crowd, but then a backshot shows that it's not even a thousand people.
So that's up on M4Wars.com and NewsWars.com that just shows the fraud of what's going on.
But the first thing I want to get to when we come back is Van Jones and others saying,
Trump's crazy, election fraud and voter fraud does not exist.
And it's the same thing, this confidence game they play where they shit up there and look at everybody
and say, isn't it horrible?
He says, we're a nation.
I've never heard something so hateful and weird and bizarre.
Next, he'll say, we breathe oxygen and the grass is green.
My God, the puppy dogs are sweet.
I've never heard.
It's insane.
He wore a blue sports blazer with a red tie.
Oh my God, that's crazy too.
He talked into a microphone.
Oh my Lord, that's so horrible.
I mean, you think he was talking about child molestation or something, but they just sit there and have Don let me go.
I'm just, I'm speechless.
And when I go out and protest, these deranged leftists, they just look at me and they go,
and it's like you're in junior high and the cool kids are trying to make you feel like you're stupid and you're not in the cool club.
You know, you're sitting there eating your lunch real quick because you're about to skip the last half of school that day with a bunch of high schoolers who are about to pick you up,
but you're hungry.
So I'm eating a chicken fried steak and the cool girls are sitting across and laughing at me and saying, look how stupid he is.
He's really flirting with me and I figure out, oh, they're flirting with me, but I'm dating high school girls.
See, I mean, by like seventh or eighth grade, I had figured out that when people do that and act confident and sit there and shake their head at you and laugh at you for no reason,
they're doing it because it gets a rise out of you and you watch Don Lemon and all these people, they use junior high level antics.
Since I mentioned it, let's play it again right now.
This is Don Lemon responding to the nationalists with this big pregnant pause like, whoa.
Did I just hear him say we're a country?
Okay.
Oh my God.
Oh, whoa.
He just said this piece of paper is white.
I mean, seriously, he just said, this is cell phone in my hand.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
Here's Don Lemon literally using junior high mind control on you, but I guess it works on the idiots that watch CNN.
Wow.
Whoa.
I'm a nationalist.
Nationalist.
Wow.
Use that word.
We're going to talk about that word tonight. It is a favorite of the alt-right and is loaded with positive and racial.
Have you noticed?
Let's start over.
Have you noticed how the left, these authoritarians are obsessed with destroying language?
Orwell said they were.
He was the biggest leftist, highest levels, MI6.
He was one of their highest level.
He was like, this is, you actually want to destroy language and make people dumb?
I'm out.
You're not really liberals.
You want Ingsoc and the dictionary gets smaller each year.
And so every year, it's new words they attack.
Globalist is anti-Semitic.
Nationalist is mean and bad.
Shut up, you authoritarian dirtbag.
I don't mean literally shut up.
Like, you want me to be silenced.
I'm saying, you're an idiot.
What trying to get into my mind?
Oh, I can't even look at him.
Don Dickhead Lemon.
I mean, if anybody in this world is a dumbass dickhead, it's him.
God, what an un-American piece of felt.
Simply put, if you want the best at an extremely low price, this is it.
Winner's Son is the result of our pursuit of the best source of Vitamin D3.
The research and development took over two years.
But the result, as verified by independent laboratories, is the best vegan Vitamin D3 product in the world.
Read the facts at infowarslife.com about Winner's Son Vitamin D3.
Not only does Vitamin D3 promote a healthy mood, but Vitamin D supports our memory and brain function.
Something the globalists are targeting.
Visit infowars.com today or call 888-253-3139.
Music
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6, Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, the globalists had this country in a trance allied with the Chai comms and the unelected EU,
and the scumbags in Hollywood.
This religion is hating America.
But now the planet is awakening.
And the good news is, we're seeing nationalists take office or win office from Asia to Latin America
to Eastern Europe to Western Europe to right here in the good old US of A to the UK.
And just like they did two years ago, oh, the Democrats are going to win.
Oh, the polls show they're all way ahead.
Same garbage out of the same big old ugly globalist butt faces.
And same crap just and also same orifice.
And I have a big repertoire of language, but you've got to describe them pretty much for what they are sometime.
I'm sorry.
So they're all freaking out that Trump says he's a nationalist and believes that America exists,
and that's a new dirty word that's got to be banned.
Don Lemon is attacking it as anti-Semitic.
That's coming up.
But then you've got a problem.
The leftist that they brainwash in these UN camps out of Central America are burning American flags,
saying they're going to militarily conquer America, saying they're on a mission to bring communism to America,
saying that Trump is the anti-Christ.
And people are seeing this and they're seeing this crazy echo chamber.
And I think this could be even a bigger game changer in this election.
The problem is everybody I know is getting in the mail absentee ballots in dead people's names.
And many of them are filled out in Spanish.
And it is a big, big problem.
So what are we going to do?
And, you know, Trump has been pointing all of this out.
And he's been doing the best job that he can.
But what do we do if they steal the House?
What do we do if they are able to steal the Senate?
That's a question that we have to ask ourselves 14 days out right now.
But I want to go to a clip here from the good old Van Jones who ran the department under Obama
that's still operating, that's creating a racial division in the country and interfacing with the corporate media.
But in just a moment after we play this clip, I'm going to show you the proof that's flooding out
that they're using illegal aliens to vote and homeless people to vote and just Democratic operatives to vote
in the identity of dead people and people in nursing homes.
But they're already telling you having a country is a dirty word or not wanting unelected globalism is bad, anti-Semitic.
And so now they're telling you that the Democrats aren't publicly trying to register illegal aliens to vote which they're publicly doing.
And again, this is all like a confidence game where they sit up there and say, nation states are dirty and bad.
How dare you even talk about them?
And we're all supposed to bow down and apologize.
And then now there's no such thing as election fraud and they just talk to us like we're zombies in a cult or something.
But when you look at the average Democrat, that's who they are.
So here he is, Van Jones.
Places like California, the same person votes many times, you probably heard about that. They always like to say, oh, that's a conspiracy theory,
not a conspiracy theory, folks, millions and millions of people.
And it's very hard because the state guards their records. They don't want to see it.
All right, Van Jones, final response from you.
I mean, it's a lie. It's just a lie. It's not true. That's not me.
First of all, I've been working to get people to vote my whole life. If I could get people to vote one time, I would be so happy.
Who are all these people they can find that would vote multiple, multiple times?
I'm begging people to vote once. It's a lie. It's just a complete smear. It's not true and it doesn't deserve defense.
Should I play all the newscasts of people indicted and convicted in 2016 and 2018 and indicted?
I mean, hell, they caught people in Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston, San Antonio going in and voting hundreds of times with absentee ballots,
filling it out in the same handwriting, dead people's names, people in nursing homes being voted for.
Look at it right here. Texas Democrats asked non-citizens to register to vote.
Washington Times and it shows them officially doing it and the Attorney General investigating and mailing it to illegal aliens' houses with databases they've got voting.
There's another one. Busted, voter fraud ring discovered in Texas and it's a whole newscast, KTVT news with all the fake signatures in the ring
and who was doing it in Battleground, Texas.
Judge Barr's New Hampshire proof of residency requirement for new voters. That's right. Don't need proof of registry. Don't need proof you live there.
Don't need proof you're a citizen. That's what Democrats do.
Voter registration applications sent the Dallas woman who died 29 years ago. That's CBS DFW, Dallas, Fort Worth.
Folks, I'm going to explain something very, very slowly here. Very, very slowly.
This is one out of 10,000 that actually where the people get mailed is they call the news. If you get crap like this, you have to call the news.
People in this office have gotten early voter registration stuff. People that work here, people that come on the air, Joe Gilbert got mailed it.
It was filled out in Spanish and citizen was checked off with some person's name to him. They're just bombing everyone with it.
They know conservatives aren't going to fill out some fake form, but you get the leftist. Do you think deranged leftist would do that?
Again, new birdies flying in the sky.
LA mayor.
Blames DC for 50% increase in homelessness.
You get your borders up and you blame those of us that have been pointing it out.
So that's just some of the news we've got on that front. And so Van Jones can sit there with this fake consensus.
That's why on MSNBC and CNN, they'll have something like six, seven people on a panel when they go, Trump says nationalism.
They'll go, hmm, Trump says, make America greater.
Hmm. It's a fake consensus. Like, like you're three years old, like, do you want to stick your finger in the light socket? No.
Do you want to eat out of the dog bowl? Yucky.
Like you're talking to an 18 month old.
And we got a dog bowl or cat bowl. Sometimes if the cat hasn't eaten all of my parents house, the dog bowl.
And my daughter goes over and I go, we owe the yucky. And she learned, we told her what's tasty and what's yucky and she listens.
Girls, they say a little bit better, I guess, when they're younger than boys are.
But the point is, is the boy will go right after it. You usually say, no, but you know, yucky.
And then they learn you're going to stay away from the light sockets. They're covered anyways, but not Van Jones.
He's like, no one voted illegal never happened.
There's only been tens of thousands of convictions and they all go does not exist. You're just supposed to believe it.
And they talk to you like you're an animal.
And the globalists, you see, they think you're so stupid.
That they thought our show was too cerebral that people wouldn't get it or they wouldn't understand it because they believe the medium is the message.
So they believe it's a feedback loop. They believe that they give you the most dumbed down, lying, pathetic message on earth that somehow that will lower you.
So Van Jones and these other psychic vampires could sit up there and look down on you and feel powerful.
Let's go out with Don Lemon right now. This is Don Lemon acting like nationalism is farting in church.
Oh my gosh. Wow.
I'm a nationalist. Nationalist.
Use that word. We're going to talk about that word tonight. It is a favorite of the alt-right and is loaded with nativists and racial undertones.
And globalists, well, globalists have been used as a slur of sorts, sometimes even against those in the administration, often with anti-Semitic.
All the U.N. does is enslave you.
Which just happened to make the president come right out.
It's the nation states to pay for everything.
We'll be right back, folks. Stay with us.
But we come back. Obama had a pathetically small crowd.
The Empire by James Dunn, available at Amazon Books.
Hear that? That's the sound of a house being trashed while a gang of thieves ransacked the place.
And what they don't steal will be destroyed.
This year, resolve not to be the next victim of a break-in.
Go to faketv.com and discover a device that creates the illusion someone inside is watching TV, even when you're miles away.
Security is a mindset, and fake TV should be part of your security solution.
Be vigilant, but not fearful.
FakeTV.com
I'm David Hall, founder of Diamond Gusset, where we're proud of our 100% grown and sewn American-made jeans.
Whether you're out for dinner, working on the farm, or on the road,
Diamond Gusset Jeans offers a full spectrum of styles and sizes for any occasion.
To find yours, visit gusset.com. That's G-U-S-S-E-T.com.
Our loyal customers enable us to continue sponsoring Liberty Media outlets like the one you're listening to.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gusset Jeans Company.
We're bringing back one of the biggest fan-favorite formulas we've ever offered with even better ingredients.
Ultimate bone broth.
InfoWarsLife is proud to bring you a powerhouse bone broth formula to help push you to your limits.
This incredible formula will help you get the most out of your workout with the power of ultra-high-quality bone broth,
one of the most popular health products on the planet.
Built with more than seven different superfoods and crucial compounds,
Ultimate bone broth will help support your healthy muscles, digestion, tendons and ligaments,
while also supporting your body's fight against free radicals.
This incredible chicken bone broth formula contains time-tested ingredients such as turmeric root,
chaga mushroom, goji berry powder, bee pollen, and alfalfa herb powder to support your body.
It's time to experience what Ultimate bone broth can do for you.
Get a bottle of the all-new version of a fan-favorite product today at infowarsstore.com.
But if you will simply realize how epic this is and understand how real this fight is and why we've been made the main target,
and if you financially support us and if you spread the word about our articles and videos, infowars.com,
we won't just continue to stand up against these brutal scumbags, we'll win.
We have huge sales at infowarsstore.com right now,
and we're still able to operate the shopping cart and get stuff shipped out to you
despite the fact that we're trying to block our commerce and you're right to the market.
But if you don't stand up and support us financially, sorrow's the blood we'll spain win.
This is InfoWars Darkest Hour. Lead your support. I'm counting on you.
The boys tell how far Joe fell, and left his living in a cheap hotel.
The desert's quiet, Cleveland's poor, and so the story ends, we're told.
I don't need your prayers, it's true. Save a few, we left it to.
He only did what he had to do.
We are back live broadcasting worldwide.
I want to be a trillion percent clear about this. I'm not on a power trip.
Going to that Trump rally yesterday, the first time, because I don't like attention.
I knew it would happen, but I had no idea how wild it'd be, and I'm talking.
Nine out of ten people stopped me without me even talking or anything.
I was trying to get certain places and I couldn't go anywhere because
yelling, screaming, mobs of people running at me, giving me hugs, you name it.
Men, women, old, young. It was crazy.
And it buoyed my heart to know that we did launch the Restoration of America,
but now we're under massive attack, and if I don't announce how important we are
and how important our work's been, they will destroy us, and then we won't be there to fight in the future.
I want nothing better to bring balance back and to back the globalist off
and to stabilize the country. We'll still have problems, but to not be in this war,
and I would retire right now, man. I've been doing this 23 years,
and I'm so obsessed with it that you're either totally committed or you are,
you're either totally committed or you are out of the game.
And I eat, drink, sleep, this stuff. I got home at midnight last night from Houston.
We drove down there and drove back, and I dreamed all night about Trump
and about the capital and about the Trump rally and about the left
and about the globalist, and just it was all super vivid, super intense,
and I just, I'm just saying, I can't, it's just everything now.
And so when we get censored and banned on 18 sub-accounts on Twitter yesterday
and all the lies and disinfo out there in the media doesn't make me think,
oh, I'm being defeated, I'm being attacked. It makes me think, my God, when does America wake up?
When does Congress do something? You know, we talked yesterday off record to the head of the Trump campaign,
and if you can't say something nice, don't say anything at all, as what Grandma always said.
But we can't sit there and get pissed off about there being people around the president
that are just enjoying being part of the power structure.
We have to be the people that move the ball down the field
and know that the president's on fire and that's why he's under attack.
And, you know, here's the thing.
I've got all these news articles and all these things I should be covering on air right now.
But for me, it really just goes back to how screwed up it is
that we have people actively that want to get rid of our nation, get rid of our borders,
get rid of our country, and who literally hate our success and who are just really bad people.
And it should be much easier to say, I don't want to be communist China or Soviet Russia or socialist Venezuela.
I don't want to have America one big anti-free speech authoritarian control freak pedophile Berkeley.
I mean, the left really are a bunch of demons.
And at the end of the day, more and more, I don't even think that things are a political solution.
It really is a spiritual solution.
And we really are just dealing with a bunch of demon-possessed garbage
who we have been so nice to and put up with and appeased and appeased and appeased
that now they say we can't say nationalist, we can't say mother and father.
Capitalism's bad. You people are scum.
And I don't care what you say about me.
I don't care what you do to me anymore.
I will not bow down to you.
And when I have that spirit, I feel closer to God.
The idea of them winning, the idea of giving into them is torture for me.
And I'm just frustrated up here wondering, what do I do? How do I take action?
I mean, we showed all the proof of Democrats having illegal aliens and others vote in the names of dead people
and all the arrests that are happening.
And then Van Jones is on CNN saying there is no voter fraud.
It does not exist.
When we have all the hidden camera videos of his group and other people's groups
engaged in all sorts of horrible activity and all the Democrat groups
saying we bust in people to vote 10 times a piece.
We bring in homeless people and illegal aliens and it's the head Democrats in New Jersey
and New York and in Illinois all committing crime.
And none of them got their fat asses thrown in present.
And that's why all this scum is so damn arrogant.
Because they have been getting away with things forever.
So I'm going to control myself because I wanted to open the phones up and have a special guest next hour.
And I wanted to have you respond to what's happening, everything that's going on.
It's just no decision that there's not even a decision.
Why would anyone be with these people?
Why would anyone want to be associated with them?
Why would anyone?
You go to Democrat events, I don't feel powerful that they look like mental patients.
Let me tell you something.
If I was a director making a movie about a mental institution,
all I had to do was not pay some casting company millions of dollars for casting.
I would go down to a Democrat party event and every one of them looks crazier
than people you ever saw in the state hospital.
I mean, these are crazy people.
See, I'm not covering news because there's too much news.
It's not there's not enough.
I mean, this is all just insane.
Everything I've got here is just, it's all on infowars.com.
It's all on newswars.com.
And I haven't even gotten into Trump finally got caught using the n-word.
We're going to play a video when we come back in the next segment.
It's a very, very sad moment.
I know you had your heart jumping, your throat there.
Yeah, no, it's, we've got him using the n-word, folks.
And I'm going to say that I support the president using the n-word.
Now, the media will edit that and put that out deceptively.
It doesn't matter.
They're the ones that are deceptive.
When you come back, you'll see what n-word.
Because again, it's not about being emotional.
It's not about being mindless.
It's about executing.
And I have to be the same way.
And I haven't gotten into Obama and like a thousand people at his crowd.
Now they try to edit the video.
We'll get to that.
And then I'll get to the Chinese military working with the kind of Canada to put anti-submarine
devices right off our waters.
I mean, it's just, it's all unbelievable.
But I'll tell you this, I really am most frustrated that we're all going to have to go through
the pain that's coming when it could have been so easy to avoid all this.
But I think really my frustration is it's clear.
The world has cancer.
It's called the left.
And they're not going to go away without a fight.
And they take our morality and our kindness as weakness.
And the frustration is crushing them has no victory in it because they were already crushed.
We're fighting soulless husk.
All right, stay with us.
You know, they are trying to sense the broadcast.
So whatever you do, don't share the links.
In Liberty, David Hall, Diamond Gussett, Gene Company.
Don't risk it when you can take charge of it.
But with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy T-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
The purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
to fight back against the modern-day lifestyle with the screen time and the extended hours
to still have the stamina and endurance, energy and drive
to get to the gym, get to the park and get exercise that you need for your health.
So go to infowarstore.com and get supermail vitality before it's gone.
This is actually our last run of supermail vitality.
So I want you to experience supermail vitality before it's too late.
Unleash the supermail and use the supermail vitality from infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, listeners, viewers,
in-force family, I've got some really bad news for everybody.
We've been hearing for three years that there's a rumored inward tape of President Trump using the inward.
And world exclusive right now, we have the video, not just the audio,
because, you know, they can fake audio. Video's a little bit harder.
We have the world exclusive and it's with a rejoiceful heart that I give you this video.
I'm actually very proud that Trump used the inward and CNN and MSNBC and others are trying to spin that it's a bad thing.
But ladies and gentlemen, they're waging war on language.
They're waging war on borders. They're waging war on sovereignty.
And so once they get one word banned, they start banning them all.
So Dr. Laura Schlesinger got banned off TV and radio for using an inward.
And now the media is moving on to other inwards, inwards that I support.
I don't support the one she used. I think she has the right to use it, but she walks into a trap.
Trump used an inward that's the good inward. Here it is from last night.
A globalist is a person that wants the globe to do well, frankly, not caring about our country so much.
And you know what? We can't have that. You know, they have a word. It sort of became old fashioned.
It's called a nationalist. And I say, really, we're not supposed to use that word.
You know what I am? I'm a nationalist, okay? I'm a nationalist.
Wow, the inward. Do you believe they used it?
National. Nothing. Use that word. Use that word.
Oh, even worse, they're chanting the inward over and over again, USA.
So I'm being tongue-in-cheek here, except for the fact I'm not.
Don Lemon, CNN, MSNBC, all the channels are just breathless. There's an article on infowords.com. You've got to see it.
Trump declares himself a nationalist. CNN says it's racist.
That's right. So they're now saying it is the inward and that globalism is anti-Semitic.
Like I said earlier, Don, the dumbass Lemon, sits there and pauses after he plays the Trump clip you just saw.
And then, wow. Man, did you hear that racism and anti-Semiticism? Did you hear that?
So he's actually saying it's like the other inward.
It sounds like the country, Niger or Nigeria, but isn't. That they first got banned.
And then now, oh, mother, father, boy, girl, those are all a nationalist.
You can see the war on language right out of 1984 is getting crazy.
And I've already played this, Don Lemon, but it's so ridiculous.
Here he is with the pregnant pause acting like Trump just endorsed HBO and Salon and Vice magazine's or Vice TV's promotion of pedophilia.
But he didn't endorse pedophilia. He just said, we're a country. And I got to correct the president.
He rarely says something with his patently false, but he was trying to be nice. Just don't be nice, sir.
Globalism is a multinational system of the Fortune 100 set up by David Rockefeller and others publicly to set up a global technocracy.
That means an authoritarianism of the technological elite over the nation state where their tax exempt.
So globalism is not for the good of the world. And even the Financial Times of London says globalism has broken the rules.
It's oppressive. People hate it.
Elon Musk said, I'm nauseatingly pro-American. I would have come here from any country.
The U.S. is where great things are possible.
Well, that's more inward behavior than Elon Musk.
So let's go to Don the Dum Dum Lemon. Here it is.
I'm sorry.
Wow.
I'm a nationalist.
We're a country. Wow.
Nationalist.
Wow.
Use that word. We're going to talk about that word tonight. It is a favorite of the alt-right.
Pause again.
We're going to talk about that word.
Another word we want to get rid of here in the Thought Police.
Continue.
Activists and racial undertones.
And globalists?
Well, globalists have been used as a slur of sorts.
Sometimes even against those in the administration, often with anti-Semitic overtones,
which has happened to make the president come right out and embrace nationalism openly and claim that mantle.
What does that mean?
Next, you'll embrace breathing oxygen.
So the article is on inforwars.com.
But oh, why do all these other folks waving their Honduran and their Guatemalan and their Venezuelan flags,
burning American flags, shaying drums to the Antichrist, led by the U.N., led by the Annenberg Foundation,
the Ford Foundation, they're all running around super angry at us.
They're not getting rid of their country, so that's okay to wave their foreign flags.
Networks cheer migrant caravans, quote, defying the president undeterred in their mission.
They're almost all military-age men.
Fox News, about 80% of migrant caravan are men under age of 35, say Mexican police.
MS-13 gang members amongst migrant caravan.
Folks that have already been deported.
Infowars.com, Paul Joseph Watson.
Lily Garment, perhaps Soros is funding caravan.
Perhaps Bears, go to the bathroom in the woods.
It's on record who's funding it.
We have articles with links to the sites and groups bragging.
But the groups have governmental power and treaties through the U.N.
That's why Trump has to pull us out of the U.N.
Trump thousands said as many trips as necessary to keep growing migrant caravan out as a new caravan joins it.
It's now over 20,000.
Remember, I told you it wasn't 200 on Friday.
I told you it was 50,000.
What are you telling you, 20,000? It was 14,000 last night.
Folks, it's hundreds of thousands.
They're going to break that border completely.
They did the same thing to Europe six years ago.
Migrant declares that Donald Trump is the antichrist as a caravan grows.
40,000 people.
Trump declares national emergency.
You better believe it is.
So that's just some of the news on that.
Migrant caravan could prompt a wider confrontation between Mexico and U.S.
Yeah, their president admitted three months ago he's actually helping set it up.
A second migrant caravan said to the U.S.
Following the first, who told you that?
I've been telling you that for months.
It's all a plan.
They follow an exact scenario.
The good news is China tried to plunge our stock market today,
but the plunge protection team got in there and blocked the Federal Reserve and the rest of it for now
so that they can't plunge the market ahead of the midterms,
just like they did the same week, two weeks before, in 2008 to make sure Barack Obama got elected.
And they're trying the exact same garbage yet again, aren't they?
Now, I've been talking about it all day.
And when we come back, photos, numbers at Trump rally, dwarf those at Obama event,
Paul Joseph Watson, it's also on dredger4.com.
And we're going to look at that versus Democrat claims they're about to win the House and maybe even the Senate.
So evidence of that fraud coming up.
Please, whatever you do realize, they were all getting punched drunk to the censorship.
And you saw 18 Twitter accounts, they say affiliated with InfoWars.
Yeah, some of them are like little side accounts they know we had like InfoWars store that just showed our products.
I had almost no retweets, no traffic, but they just banned them all yesterday in punishment that I be at a Trump rally
and be mobbed by all these folks that loved us.
So those videos exclusively coming up next hour that are censored, they're also now posted to InfoWars.com.
And then finally, your excitement about America, your excitement about this broadcast is what brought the country and the world back from the brink.
But the globalists now want to target where the resistance came from so that we're not pesky in the future.
I want to be troublesome and pesky.
I want to keep going.
I want to make them do the ultimate, not just destroy us financially.
I want to push all the way.
I've committed to do that.
I've prayed for that.
And I've been told that's going to happen.
But you've got to back us and I promise you this, I will give the total sacrifice.
I will never falter.
I will never waver at the spiritual level.
I physically will.
But I give you my commitment if you financially support us at InfoWars.com to give you my absolute total commitment.
Just like our information is game changing, our products are game changing.
And Survival Still X2 is the pure eye and eye.
No one else has this from deep earth crystals between 7 and 12,000 feet.
It's very hard for me to get.
It's the good halogens.
But instead they hammer you with the bad halogens.
Fluoride, chlorine, bromine, that literally fog you, fill all your cells, your thyroid, you name it.
Bio-trusilinium goes with it like a horse of carriage.
Silinium is an electrochemical.
It's needed as well in all activity in the body, particularly neurons.
So these go incredibly well together.
We have a combo of those.
Just experience it for yourself.
Why do you think they fear me so much?
Very simple stuff.
Filter your water.
Yeah, find myself some water filters.
Best out there for the price.
When I say it's the last run, I think it'll be six months a year until we get more.
I hope we get more.
This is the last run it looks like.
Survival Still X2 at InfoWars.com, or InfoWarsLive.com, or AAA-253-3139.
Nourish a probiotic-friendly environment in your gut with prebiotic fiber by InfoWars Life.
Help the good bacteria thrive and support overall digestive health with our specially formulated prebiotic fiber,
a mixture of clinically studied and organic acacia, fruit, and flax fiber.
Prebiotic fiber is soluble fiber that ferments in the gut to help feed good bacteria,
which helps you digest food, absorb nutrients, and even support your immune system.
InfoWars Life's cutting-edge formula only brings you the highest quality, organic, and clinically studied ingredients.
Cheap prebiotic fibers are used up only at the beginning of the colon,
but our premium organic acacia fiber is slowly digested by the good bacteria throughout the entire colon for maximum prebiotic effect.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Whether you're looking to boost the benefits of our fish oil formula, or just want an alternative, InfoWars Life has the formula for you.
Ultimate Crill Oil is a powerhouse formula that takes advantages of the EPA, DHA, and Omega-3s found in our high quality, ultra-pure Crill Oil concentrate.
Containing powerful antioxidants such as Azazanthin and Omega-3s, Ultimate Crill Oil can help you experience the benefits of fish oil with less required DHA and EPA.
This incredible formula can help your body in many ways, including supporting heart health, joint health, and cognitive health,
aiding and regulating fat metabolism, helping to maintain cognitive function, and more.
And while other Crill Oil formulas may chemically modify their formulas,
we're giving you the benefits of a simple formula that contains unmodified high quality Crill Oil concentrate.
Paired with our ultimate fish oil, or used separately, it's time to see what Crill Oil can do for you with Ultimate Crill Oil.
Now available at InfoWarsStore.com.
Stress is a natural part of life where family, friends, and everyday accidents can put a lot of strain on the body and your mood.
Don't let life weigh you down. HAPPYS is a powerful mood and stress support formula that has your back against life's daily inconveniences.
Made with ancient ingredients used for thousands of years, HAPPYS can help you take back the day.
With our powerhouse formula, HAPPYS can be an important part of your daily supplement routine.
With poor diet and the constant on and off of your work life, it's more important than ever to support your body in the fight against stress.
With powerful ingredients combined to help support the mind and body, HAPPYS helps support during stress,
promotes overall well-being, and helps support your mood.
Don't let your life bogged down.
Help your body overcome the effects of daily stress and pressure today with HAPPYS from InfoWarsStore.com.
The Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Well, the Democrats are trying to behave and act like they're going to win the midterms.
And they are spinning their normal disinformation in fake polls.
But a lot of evidence is mounting that they're going to lose even more seats in the house and maybe even some seats in the Senate.
But they're putting on a confidence game so that their desperate loser supporters feel like they could be part of a big win.
But if they think they're going to lose, they won't go vote. It's a true loser mentality.
But here's some of the headlines we're going to be dealing with.
Google, Facebook, and Twitter staff splurge on Democrats ahead of midterms.
They also splurge on massive hysterical censorship of anyone right of Mao Zedong.
But here's a big story up on DrudgeReport.com.
Photos, number at Trump rally, dwarf those at Obama event.
Let's pull that up in HD for TV viewers, all the Scrabbage radio listeners.
20,000 people capacity at the Toyota Center, at least 50,000 outside, 100,000 tickets that people claimed.
A lot of folks were coming and going, but I mean, I saw at least 70,000 people there at once.
They reported yesterday that Donald Trump is very unpopular with foreign nations.
He's one of the most unpopular presidents in the history of polling.
And I said, no, I said, of course, I'm unpopular with foreign nations
because we're not letting them rip us off anymore, folks.
They meant it to be bad.
When the fake news, they meant it to be bad.
Donald Trump very unpopular with other nations.
And you know what I had?
It was 70% against and 30% for.
I said, who is the 30%?
Why would they ever want to vote for him?
Because honestly, we're treating everybody good.
We're helping people. We're protecting people.
But you know, when we protect with our military, the greatest in the world,
and now it's a lot better than it's ever been because of what we're doing,
we have to be reimbursed for that protection.
Okay, so let's stop right there.
There is the capacity crowd, 20,000 inside, 50,000 or more outside.
I was there.
And then now let's look at Obama.
First, they did a front shot with a tiny crowd of politicos all huddled together
in front of him to make it look big.
And then we're going to show you the back shot.
Go ahead and go to it.
So there you have them with tight shots on it.
I mean, this looks like a smaller crowd than you'd have for seventh grade 4A girls basketball game.
But National News shows you a front shot all cropped in to make it look like it's a big crowd.
We all know those tricks.
When Trump does these rallies, they would zoom in and he'd say, back those cameras up, show it.
And because he was able to expose the fact they were doing that,
it blew up in their face.
So very, very exciting to see that unfolding.
But let's get into some of these other articles.
Bernie Burnout, Sanders rally crowds down 90% from 2016.
I'd say that's being optimistic.
You look at the photos in the article in infowars.com.
I mean, they have it in a college lecture hall and it looks like maybe 60 people.
You can go watch the video.
It's on infowars.com.
They do pull out there.
And it's maybe 60 people, like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
You count it up.
Maybe 60, maybe 70 people.
But that it.
But don't worry.
Google, Facebook and Twitter staff splurge on Democrats ahead of midterms.
And George Soros has just spent another 80 plus million dollars.
That's our number.
This is 78 million on ballot initiatives, not counting all the other money you're spending
just on general elections.
That's out of newsbusters.
But it's okay.
They're not just splurging on getting ballot initiatives or running candidates or spending
all this money.
They also got 18 more accounts linked to Alex Jones banned because we dare go to the Trump
Party and show the love fest.
But we're going to be showing that next hour in detail in some of these amazing interviews
because they are powerful.
We have another guest, though, joining us who will write a shot down with us as well,
Ricky Berwick.
I love the intensity of his videos.
He's got millions of subscribers on YouTube.
But most importantly, he's got the courage, unlike the other cops, to come on the big
evil show where he might then get punished for doing that.
In fact, let's play some audio of him from like a year ago talking about CNN doxing people
that dared make joke memes about CNN and Trump body slamming.
And here it is.
The video shared by President Trump to his 33 million personal Twitter followers and then
to 19 million more on his presidential account was apparently first posted by a Reddit user
who goes by this online name and who has also laid claim to it.
That user of Reddit's online message board reacted enthusiastically.
Wow, I never expected my meme to be retweeted by the God Emperor himself.
I am honored.
But others are worried, including the Anti-Defamation League, which surveyed the user's post and
found a consistent record of racism, anti-Semitism and bigotry.
This individual traffics an online hatred and at times violent rhetoric.
And the ADL seems to call out the president saying, when those on the fringes of society
feel their messaging is getting mainstream attention, that should...
Oh, CNN, you really messed up this time.
What a bunch of black male bitches and fake news.
CNN, that guy that made that meme, he's not the one that's supposed to be apologizing.
It's you with your fake news and your blackmailing habits.
If you don't stop, I will make you stop with my tongue.
And trust me, that's worse than any weapon.
So CNN, please stop, okay?
And I apologize.
Wow, that guy could be a big star in Hollywood.
Pretty funny guy.
He's going to be joining us coming up the next hour.
And I'll open the phones up some too.
And then we'll get to the news I have not covered yet.
California company that hires protesters is accused of extortion.
Paid protesters are real.
But I thought they don't exist.
I mean, I've said sometimes they stage events with protesters.
A lot of antifar paid and hired.
And then they then go, Jones says no one died at Parkland.
No, I didn't say that.
I talked about other cases.
But now it's in the Sacramento Bee.
So things aren't going too well in globalist land.
Here's another one.
Mike Pitt's Honduran president told me Venezuela funding migrant caravan.
Yeah, I told you.
