When I grow up, I want to be a rock star!
Now take you live to the Central Texas Commence Center in the heart of the resistance. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have a big, big broadcast lined up for you today with several special guests in studio.
We have the full JFK files now released, the final trosh on Saturday night when the president fully delivered.
We have Kevin Spacey, who I have always heard from the sources and of course has been rumored online for many years.
He is the big, high-powered Hollywood star, reportedly molested people.
He's apologized for basically trying to rape a 14-year-old boy that they drug into some adult party that he took back in a bedroom.
And of course we all know that's the tip of the iceberg, but here's what's really key.
Spacey was on the Lolita Express, the big rape wagon with wings that Bill Clinton and others were on.
Now that whole house of cards is coming down, that's why the swamp is desperate and their champion is Mueller.
And the president's saying, hey, America, do something, they're the criminals. Here's the report.
Trump's in press conferences and tweets saying, man, Hillary got caught paying for the dossier that they got from the conservatives,
so-called conservative Jim Bush and others, and putting all the PP gate stuff in there.
Trump already knows all that, he has all the intelligence, but now because it's in the news he's out talking about.
And John McCain's involved as well.
Trump calls for prosecution of Democrats.
As reports of impending indictment in Russian probe, do something, he says.
Yeah, it's been more than a year.
The State Department is holding tens of thousands of documents on a case that they claim is closed.
And when I met with Attorney General Sessions, much like Ron DeSantis did, I basically got a stiff arm.
I got an attorney general that said he would not comply. He wasn't going to do any sort of prosecutions.
And it's such a huge difference.
When he was a senator, he would have never put up with that.
But the deep state is very real. They're pushing back.
Oh, but now Mueller's investigating Democrat lobbyist Tony Podesta says NBC.
They're being forced to do that to make it look like he's impartial.
The guy himself is worse than Podesta, brothers, and almost as bad as Hillary.
When it comes to being in bed with Russian companies and transferring uranium in suitcases to them,
I mean, wow, who transfers weapons-grade uranium on Armax to the FSB?
That's the KGB.
This is about corruption. It's about collusion and potentially treasonous activity.
Members of the Obama administration at the cabinet level, as there was an FBI investigation
of racketeering on uranium by Russia in America, approved this deal.
Hillary Clinton approved a deal that would give 20% of uranium to a nation like Russia that supports rogue regimes.
This is massive, Sean. Absolutely massive.
They want you to be corrupt and they'll leave you alone. It's why they don't like Trump. He's not corrupt.
They don't have any bodies. They don't have any skeletons. They don't have anything to get him.
Everyone is colluding with Russia, except Trump.
Basically, you've got the Podesta group. You've got the Hillary campaign. You've got the DNC.
You've got the FBI. You've got Christopher Steele, who you credit as an XMI6 agent.
He's not just any old XMI6 agent. He's the head of the Russia desk at MI6.
Trump calls for prosecution of Democrats as reports of impending indictments in Russia probe.
Do something, he says.
Never seen such Republican anger and unity as I have concern.
The lack of investigation on Clinton made fake dossier now $12 million.
Yeah, that's what they paid for somebody to make up.
Trump demands Republicans do something in Twitter meltdown.
No, you have Robert Mueller, Mueller Mueller, Mueller.
Literally so in bed with the Russians, so paid off, so bought off.
That's what globalism is, is selling your country up.
I mean, there's a hundred times a sellout to China, but it doesn't make the Russians tough okay.
But what do you think the Russians are going to do when we've got people running the country,
literally selling the nation off?
They quit globalists and left the star.
They tell us they hate America. This is sell the country out.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States
that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off, and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you
and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com or simply call toll free,
triple eight, 253-3139.
The Mexicans led by the dictator, Santa Ana, had a Pyrrhic victory back in 1836
in a place called San Antonio at a makeshift fort called the Alamo.
They killed everybody inside the building in a three-day battle.
Then they lost the war and I can guarantee you, looking into the historical ramifications
of what's happening right now, that even if the globalists are able to kill Trump
or remove Trump or kill me or remove myself, Matt Drudge, the few folks out there fighting,
the people are awake and you can be absolutely assured that globalism will fall,
globalism is failing, it's dead on arrival, it's falling apart faster than we thought,
all over Europe, all over Latin America, all over Asia, even in areas of Africa,
people understand globalism as a new form of corporate colonialism,
playing the nation states off against each other.
So that's the incredible news here, but I got to be honest with you.
It is disgusting, it is depressing, it is infuriating,
it is enraging, it is nauseating.
To know all about Russiagate and to know that the Democratic Party, the entire leadership of it,
everyone you investigate is deep in with the Communist Chinese, the Russians, the globalists,
shell on the country out, that's what they do, that's their religion, that's their operation,
it's why they hate the country, you got to hate something you're willing to destroy.
It's a prerequisite.
So what they're doing now is projecting on to Trump and to make America a great again movement
that's got the dollar up, the stock market up, thousands of companies coming back.
Jobless numbers, the lowest they've been now since 1984, I mean the numbers are coming in
and the globalists are trying to kill tax cuts, they're trying to kill,
making our country more competitive again, where our corporate tax is at least even with China,
not 15% for China, 40% for us.
The globalists have become rulers of the world to a great extent, off of our labor,
off of our work, off of our backs, and we've got a president who is simply not out to get the country
and these scumbags, these swamp creatures and their swamp king, Mueller,
believe they can overturn a duly elected president with their fraud.
And to see them, when Mueller is involved with all these Russian companies in incredible corruption on its face
and in tarmac uranium transfers and so much more, it makes you ask your question,
how on earth are they even trying to get away with this?
But here's the goodness, they didn't get away with trying to steal them.
Primaries from Trump, they didn't get away with trying to keep him from getting the nomination,
they didn't get away with trying to have the electors be faithless
and then not see him as the president on January 21st, they failed.
And with every passing day they don't get Trump out of office,
our victory becomes that much more accelerated, it's already assured.
This is an incredible time to be alive, ladies and gentlemen.
A truly amazing time to be alive and to be witnessing all of this unfolding.
And so everything you're seeing our desperation acts to cover up the crimes that they've committed,
you notice that they were going to wait at least a few weeks longer for these Manafort indictments
that we broke exclusively yesterday, actually broken on Friday but we gave the names,
not just to Manafort but others on Saturday and then on Sunday here exclusively.
But all of this is being done because it all came out last week,
but we already knew about Fusion, GPS and the fake PP gate and the uranium one deals
and the payoffs and the line to Congress and all the rest of it.
So what are they going to do when they've been illegally leaking,
when the FBI has been involved in all these crimes,
when Mueller and Comey killed the investigations in the uranium one back seven, eight years ago,
what are they going to do? They're going to go for broke and try to take Trump
and this American re-assurgence out, that's all they can do.
So they're fighting like men fighting for their lives because they are.
And the arrogance you see from them is a cloak they wear for how precarious
and how weak their position is even in this current fight,
which their five to one chances they're going to lose this.
But if they win it, it's a Pyrrhic victory,
died in the wall, textbook, encyclopedia Britannica, Webster's dictionary definition.
Just look around you everywhere.
They're losing the culture war in a complete realignment globally.
A mega event has taken place and nothing will put their fraud back up on the horse again.
That said, it's going to be a tough road, but people are striking back.
We strategically during the campaign last year began to expose the pedophile rings
that the Clintons and others are involved with.
We took the hit, we put it all out there first, spirit cooking, you name it.
Knowing that would give witnesses courage to start coming forward
and give law enforcement courage to move.
Once we got Trump in, who we knew wanted to go after him,
another green light was put out there so the real battle could begin
between the different deep states, the American people in America
and the globalists in their deep state.
That's now happening.
We've told you and we've had articles up on infowars.com
that reportedly one of the kingpins of this in Hollywood
is the darling of the left, Kevin Spacey.
He's now apologized for dragging a 14-year-old boy into a room
trying to have sex with him.
Ladies and gentlemen, what are grown men doing with 14-year-olds at their male parties?
Now, the media spun this that, oh, he admits he's gay.
He's come out of the closet.
Well, that's like telling me that a walrus, you know,
has a big long tusk or lives in the Northern Atlantic Ocean
or that birds fly in the sky.
They change the subject.
Oh, he's come out. He's gay.
Oh, they think battle obscure things.
Oh, Kevin Spacey's gay? We didn't know that.
How about the word is he's a pedophile as well that likes young boys,
just like the deputy pope who just got arrested.
And so the empire is on the run, ladies and gentlemen.
We are on the march and we told you this is all common.
So here's how this works for the globalist.
Every day they try to bring the republic down.
More of your operatives are going to get burned in your cult.
And by the way, you know you're fighting for your lives because we're not going to stop.
But everybody knows it's got to be accelerated now as quickly as possible.
So you want to fight, you're in the arena with us.
You got your sword in your short short out. So do we. And we're just going to town and the fights on.
And if you look at yourself, you're bleeding a lot worse than we are.
And politically, when we're done, ear to ear, swords going through.
So understand that another one up under the throat to the top of the head.
There's going to be a nice Christian cross with swords sticking out of your political carcass when we're done with you.
And you understand that a lot of us may not make it through what's about to happen.
But this is the great animating contest of liberty.
This is the tree of liberty. This is what it's all about.
This is what people should beg on their knees before God to be part of.
Because historically, it's all happening right now.
The pedophile networks are coming down.
The international espionage networks set up where they quote, do it legally through globalism,
selling out the nation state, looting the taxpayer, engaging in social warfare operations.
Social warfare operations have done the populations down.
All of that's being drugged out in the open.
And the globalists now are seeing the light of day and they're panicking because they don't like the light.
This is an incredible time to be alive.
And I'm extremely honored to be here with you as all this begins to unfold.
But they're going to try to use distractions of, oh, he's gay.
Or, oh, guys hit on women in Hollywood and make that the crime.
The diversion of, oh, he's gay, so everything's okay if he likes little boys.
And, oh, look, men.
Adam Sandler got seen patting a woman on the knee.
Oh, my God, it's rape.
They're going to try to throw up all this smoke screen.
Because the rabbit hole goes a lot deeper than just 14-year-olds getting drugged into bedrooms.
So Kevin's pacing can try to have sex with them.
It goes down to little kids, little babies, and it, of course, ends with human sacrifice.
Stay with us.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health-sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Hello, Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother?
VirtualShield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial.
VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault.
A miniaturized shotgun.
Which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
$39.95 plus shipping and handling.
Use discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your fly swatter and get your bug assault today.
Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry.
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war.
Giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense.
60 years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs,
they had drums of their own.
Air raid sirens.
But in the 21st century, there were silent weapons for quiet war.
Pathogens added to the food and water.
To the lining of plastics that destroy our vitality.
Turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death.
I personally counter this onslaught with Anthroplex.
Anthroplex is designed with known, organic, concentrated herbs
to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
Discover why Anthroplex has turned so many heads today.
It's time for us to take our bodies back into our own hands.
And it starts at infowarslife.com with Anthroplex.
We've taken thousands of years of known research
and put it together with our own four years of seeking and testing
to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield.
Toxic metal and chemical defense support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature
that are absolutely associated with detoxifying the body
and it supports the infowar.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection
when it comes to a detoxifier as you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself, you owe it to your family
and you owe it to the future of this country and the world
that patriots stay as healthy and as clean and as focused as you can be
because we need you, the remnant of America,
to reignite those brush fires the next level
and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together,
we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield.
www.infowarslife.com
You are the Resistance.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Coming up, Roger Stone, former business partners with Paul Manafort
will give us the exclusive intel on the latest shoes to drop
because Mueller's eyeing new indict,
more people associated with Trump for crooked toenails,
not filling out tax forms right 10 years ago.
You name it, because they have to create the illusion
that Trump, again, was on the Russian payroll.
But notice, we're talking about stuff years ago
that Manafort was doing in major campaigns
with pro-Western candidates
that it turns out Podesta was involved with as well
and it has nothing to do with the president,
nothing to do with Russia.
But they're interviewing the renters at Trump Towers around the world
they're interviewing members of his golf course clubs
by the thousands, pure harassment.
And then I guess just seeing who they can indict
for a bounce check five years ago.
This is beyond any witch hunt ever seen
and it's being done by Robert Mueller
that killed the investigations along with Comey
into the Clintons and Uranium One
with FBI informants with photos, videos and documents
with hundreds of millions of dollars being transferred to them.
Wow.
President Trump rightly has come out and started tweeting
he says the Uranium to Russia deal
the 33,000 plus deleted emails
the Comey fix and so much more.
Instead they look at phony Russia Trump.
Collusion, which doesn't exist,
the Dems are using this terrible and bad for our country
witch hunt for evil politics.
But the Republicans are now fighting back whatever before.
There is so much guilt by the Democrats Clinton
and now the facts are pouring out.
Do something.
All of this Russia talk right now
and the Republicans are making their big push
for historic tax cuts and reform.
Is this coincidental? Not.
And that's it.
You have the fellow reserve trying to sabotage things
with interest rate hikes.
You've got big global banks trying to drive down the stock market.
I mean this country is under globalist attack.
With the communist Chinese backing the whole thing.
And Hollywood running around like a rabid dog.
Report out of the Obama campaigns paid 972,000
diffusion GPS but have testified they paid nothing.
The firm also got 12 million from the DNC
but nobody knows who located it.
Sorry but this is years ago before
Manafort was part of the Trump campaign.
But why aren't crooked Hillary and the Dems the focus?
Also there is no collusion.
So there you go ladies and gentlemen.
Meanwhile we've always heard that Kevin Spacey
is the leader of the gay mafia.
And there's been folks that are gay in Hollywood
that have talked about getting jobs, getting parts.
It's not just about having sex with these folks.
It's that you have to be in the end club.
It's like a click or the cool guys in school.
And that's why the media focuses on the heterosexual club so much.
Because that's not even the dominant club in Hollywood.
And that's now coming out.
But the media will spin it that people are going after Kevin Spacey
because he came out as gay today.
Why did he come out as a homosexual?
I'm a heterosexual.
We're not going to follow the political correct words anymore.
Why?
Why ladies and gentlemen did they do this?
As a smoke screen, here it is.
Kevin Spacey apologizes to Anthony Rapp.
Comes out.
And of course Anthony Rapp has just had the courage to talk about
what happened over the decades ago.
Because folks, the word is,
Spacey's already been implicated and we're only hours away
from more people coming forward.
Just like we heard with Harvey Weinstein,
it wasn't just full grown women, it was 16, 17 year olds.
Now that's coming out and it wasn't just groping,
it was raping and now that's coming out.
And of course Kevin Spacey
was just acting while he was inebriated.
Well, that's what we're hearing.
I wonder when the other cases come out of it's just acting out
while you're inebriated.
Is it okay if Weinstein was inebriated?
And these are the groups always moralizing to fly over country
and telling us how bad it is to be Christian
or how bad it is to be conservative
or how bad it is to want traditional values.
But they want to run the Department of Education
and they want to sexualize children to make them tolerant.
And Salon Magazine says no, we like pedophiles.
And New York Times says leave pedophiles alone
and the UN says let's legalize it.
Down to age 13.
That's what it's all about,
is these people doing whatever they want.
And they're homosexual monsters, heterosexual monsters.
But when you go after young people, you're called a pedophile.
And when you go after young people to sexualize them,
you're called a corruptor.
And that's why the big movies coming out
that they've tried to suppress that exposes all of this,
the open secret.
And that's why we've linked to it and Drudge has linked to it.
And everybody else should link to it and promote it.
It's free online so people can understand
what's really going on and how Hollywood has hundreds of
convicted high level pedophiles who get hired again
to work on children's sets at Nickelodeon, Viacom, Disney.
It's incredible.
And I told you it's all coming down.
It's because Trump and the nationalist movement
has been the catalyst to begin bringing this down.
And what we've got on screen right there is the trailer for it,
but the full film is online.
At infowars.com, that's where you go.
And you can see the open secret for free.
Just type that in for free and you'll find the link
and get it out to everybody.
So media down plays Kevin Spacey child molestation allegation
focuses on sexuality in the headlines.
Actor Kevin Spacey declares he lives life as a gay man.
Why is this just breaking now?
So using tolerance as a shield for a party he admits
he drug a 14-year-old into and threw on the bed
and tried to have sex with.
Reportedly, Kevin Spacey announced Sunday night
that he will live as a gay man.
Oh, we really couldn't tell in some of the movies you played
when it was so natural.
I mean, give us a break.
Now this is being used as a distraction.
And just remember that everything they accuse us of,
they've been doing in triplicate and they've been operating
like they've been above the law for 50, 60 years,
the globalist have.
The sources of corruption and filth in D.C., in New York, in L.A.
And I'm not saying everybody in New York or L.A. or D.C. is a bad person.
I'm saying the arrogant culture of the corrupt elites,
looking at everybody else as animals, has been out of control
and now equilibrium is coming back.
The pendulum is now swinging back.
And at first, when the pendulum is going the other direction,
it slows down, it stops.
A couple years ago, the pendulum swinging towards anarchy,
Satanism, pedophilia, devil worship, total corruption
had swung all the way towards the reckless left.
And now it's beginning to swing back
and it starts swinging faster and faster
as it goes back the other direction.
And all of you at the end of this stuff,
you've got a couple hundred year wait.
Historically, things are compressed now,
so it might be a 10 year wait.
You've got a hundred year, 200 year wait
until you hit your peak again
of being able to sexualize children in preschool
and teach them how to perform fallatio on whatever.
So, good luck scum, your time's coming to an end.
Online discounts available at
www.powerprepper.com
You deserve a deep restful sleep
with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality,
natural ingredients such as valerian root extract,
L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life,
we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses
the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
It is amazing.
InfoWarsLife.com, 50% off caveman,
but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless.
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing.
I want to thank you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Labe t-shirts
and you get the great books and videos,
you're finding the tip of the spear again.
Visit InfoWarsStore.com today
and commit to helping the InfoWar.
Longtime Trump advisor Roger Stone
was on the Alex Jones show this week.
He said he spoke directly to the president
and urged him to release all the documents.
However, Stone notes that the president
is under tremendous pressure by the Central Intelligence Agency
to delay the release of the documents for another 25 years.
Stone said the issue is now transparency.
What is the government hiding at this point?
He believes the documents will show
that JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald
was trained, nurtured, and put in place by the CIA.
Leigh-Anne McAdoo, InfoWars.com
In our front door, Alan Dershowitz,
lifelong Democrat, attorney of Harvard Law School,
professor and author of Trumped Up,
you actually predicted what is happening right now in this book.
Sure, it's all about leverage.
They're going after Manafort on something
that apparently has nothing to do with Trump years ago,
his own business.
But what they're saying to him is,
we got you now and we don't care about that.
But if you can tell us something about Trump
and the campaign and collusion,
we'll give you a get out of jail card free.
So it's all about leverage.
That's the way prosecutors work.
It lasts a little bit longer, a long-time protégé
with the international contacts.
And after Manafort with Jettison, he stayed.
Then he went to a super PAC
and then they told him to leave the super PAC.
One thing is, the Trump people did move quick
to get rid of Manafort as soon as these Eastern European ties came up.
Sure. And that will help Trump distance himself.
But Manafort knows where the bodies are buried.
He was an intimate.
And if anything happened wrong in the campaign,
there's no evidence that anything did.
Manafort would know about it.
Even if he wasn't directly there, he'd heard about it.
And so this is an important event for Mueller
to try to get leverage over this intimate.
You know, the first rule in American crime
is if you're going to commit a crime,
commit it with somebody more important than you are.
So you can turn them in.
They can't turn you in.
And that's what's going to happen.
Now, you know, there may be a deal in the works.
He may be trying to make a deal with the prosecution.
He may be dangling the information
so that he wants Trump to pardon him.
I don't think Trump's going to pardon him.
I think politically that would be good.
Of course, politically that would be difficult.
Legally, constitutionally, there'd be no problem in doing it.
But Manafort now is the first domino.
And what Mueller wants to do is see him
as the first domino, the second domino, the third domino,
ultimately trying to get to the big domino.
That is president Trump.
What if Manafort doesn't have anything on the president?
No more Russia collusion. Are we done with this?
And he's going to twist in the wind.
Because if he has nothing to offer,
then he's just going to have to defend himself
on these financial charges that have nothing to do with Trump.
This shows the danger of a special prosecutor.
It certainly does, especially when that special prosecutor
eight years ago was a bag man on the tarmac
with the FSB KGB giving him weapons grade,
uranium samples for then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
And then they do a uranium deal for 20 to 30 percent
of our uranium.
And now we learn they get hundreds of millions of dollars.
And the foundation is totally offshore,
billions of dollars in it.
Manafort was running the major campaign in Ukraine
directing tens of millions of dollars
around paying people with offshore accounts.
It's what you do when you're offshore working for another country.
It's totally legal.
Remember talking to Roger Stone six months ago,
and he said, I've talked to Manafort,
good friend of mine, former business partners.
And he said, all that might be is like filling out tax forms
about offshore businesses.
And that's sure enough what it is.
That's why I've never gotten offshore accounts to put money
so that they're outside of the hands of the government
or lawsuits or whatever, even a small amount
when lawyers have tried to get me to
because I've read the regulations.
They've written it where they can indict Jesus Christ.
They can indict a ham sandwich, folks.
They can indict mountain air in Colorado as being satanic.
But what's crazy is I've never seen the equivalent
of having Hitler preside over the Nuremberg trials
after World War II.
I mean, you've got the Clintons and the Democrats
historically on the payroll of the Russians.
And now they're totally on the payroll, totally caught,
just like Roger Stone said a year and a half ago here,
blaming everybody but them for the Russian collusion,
even telling Tucker Carlson,
oh, you're probably a Russian agent.
You're being paid by Putin.
Rand Paul, John McCain said,
we know Rand Paul's being paid by Putin.
And Rand Paul said, oh, you know how to respond to that.
It was totally untrue, just like Fusion GPS,
that now we know paid $12 plus million for it?
I mean, I guess they could have paid
a homeless schizophrenic $5.
He'd have come up with a story better than this.
Roger Stone, former head of the Trump campaign,
good friends with Manafort,
in full wars broke the news that it wasn't just Manafort,
but it was his assistant and others yesterday.
And now the word is they want to go after Flynn as well.
The Southern guy, I guess, at a plea bargain last minute.
What is the latest intel that you have for us?
Well, Alex, info wars certainly on an incredible role.
It was info wars who broke the story of the release
of the classified JFK documents.
It was info wars that broke the story of the identity
of the Bush-Rubio Republican money man, Paul Singer,
who was the initial funder of the Dirty Dossier,
prepared by GPS Fusion.
And then yesterday it was info wars that broke the story
definitively that it was Paul Manafort
and his longtime associate and deputy
in the Trump campaign, Rick Gates,
who indeed were indicted this morning.
You know, I am a little confused.
I thought Mueller's investigation
pertained to Russian collusion in the 2016 election.
These charges seem to have nothing whatsoever to do with that.
It looks to me like they charged Manafort with everything,
but the Lincoln assassination.
And I think the play here is clear to the American people.
They seek to pressure Paul Manafort
to bear false witness against the president,
to say, yes, I colluded with the Russians
and Donald Trump knew all about it.
And that, of course, would be perjury.
That would be a lie.
And I've known Paul Manafort for over 40 years,
almost 50 years.
He was an usher in my wedding to my lovely wife,
and he was my campaign manager
when I ran for young Republican national chairman successfully.
1977, we go all the way back
to college Republicans in Connecticut.
I don't believe he will bear false witness against the president.
I believe he will plead not guilty to these charges,
but it appears to me that Mueller
seeks to treat this like some kind of mafia drug case.
There I am with Lee Outwater, the late Lee Outwater,
and my friend Manafort during the heyday
of Black Manafort and Outwater.
And by the way,
what was one of the biggest lobbying firms in D.C.,
let's be clear here about this.
They have accused you of being a Russian agent,
a King Peminoev,
that said that I get my directives and money
directly from the Kremlin.
That is absolutely 100% BS.
Zero truth in that.
But then they again accused Rand Paul, Tucker Carlson.
This is ridiculous.
It's like, which, which, which?
It's like a Monty Python skit if it wasn't so dangerous.
No, it's Neo McCarthyism.
If you're not in favor of thermonuclear war
with the Russians over Syria,
well, then you're a traitor to the United States.
You're not a loyal American.
This is, this is reaching absurd proportions.
It's very clear to me what the president needs to do here, Alex,
and that is he must insist upon the appointment
of a special counsel on the issue of Uranium-1.
That investigation would have to focus on Mr. Mueller,
Mr. Comey, Mr. McCabe,
the associate director of the FBI,
and Rod Rosenstein, then the U.S. attorney,
now the de facto attorney general of the United States.
Those gentlemen would be, would have to step down
if they were the target of a federal investigation.
The president's tweet is exactly right here.
There was a presidential candidate in bed with Putin.
There was a presidential candidate pocketing millions
from, from Russians close to Putin.
But that candidate is Hillary Clinton.
And this investigation is focused at the wrong people
where there is no crime.
In the Uranium-1 matter, there is most definitely a crime
and a cover-up by the Clinton,
pardon me, by the Obama Justice Department.
And you've got Mueller covering it up.
You've got him in bed with the Russians.
You've got him as a backman.
You've got him getting way more money
than, than, than Trump's ever gotten from Russians.
In fact, Trump's gotten zero.
How do they think they can get away
with this galactic record conflict of interest?
I've never seen a conflict of interest like this.
This is comic book level.
It'd be like in your divorce case,
if you were the judge against your spouse,
it's just, you have to recuse yourself.
You have to resign.
Well, what's amazing here, of course,
is the role of the Trump Justice Department.
Right now, the Trump Justice Department is-
Yeah, let's talk about that,
because it was a bunch of Obama holdovers
that basically did this whole thing.
This is a literal attempted legal coup against the president.
When I say legal, I mean by a legal system,
it's not legal, it's clear tyranny.
We'll be back with Roger Stone.
I'm Alex Jones.
Deep Earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue,
and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium
work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today
with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2
and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We're free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients
to create formulas that are certified
USDA made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you
everyday organic household products
to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural
without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using EmRick's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself
and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com
and learn more about the new EmRick Essentials
line of organic products.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemistry.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists
to create the most powerful and affordable
great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix
at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply
of essential vitamins, minerals, and amino acids
that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of InfoWarsLife,
we've brought out a lot of amazing products
that can be used to help you
with your survival shield x2, supermail vitality,
and so many others.
With its unique delivery system
and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximized effects,
this formula is the platinum standard
of multivitamin mineral products,
and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion
are either plant derived
or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure,
and rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear
in the InfoWars.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Well, this is from last night
where InfoWars spoiled Mueller's shock indictment.
Here it is.
We've put out the names exclusively here
of who's been indicted,
according to our sources,
and who is going to be arrested tomorrow
and who's been told don't try to use your passport
and don't try to leave the country.
Urgent Paul Manafort and his campaign deputy
will be indicted tomorrow morning
with a third unidentified person.
I am boarding a plane.
Deputy Rick Gates is the other deputy.
That's Manafort and then Rick Gates.
They do not know the charge,
and this horse is not in the know.
Again, the third person,
or then later I learned who the person was,
but they don't want that out
because they don't want,
it knows they haven't talked to him.
So, that's that.
Get tomorrow's news today here at InfoWars.
That's why they want to shut us down.
They do not like it.
They don't want you having access to that,
or you having access to us
to give us info in a symbiotic relationship.
Roger, it isn't like we're taking a position here to be right.
The Democrats are completely in bed with the Russians,
the Communist Chinese, everybody else.
They found nothing in a year-long investigation.
They created a, excuse me, 13-plus-million-dollar dossier.
The Democrats just gave $12,400,000.
Obama gave $900,000.
The Republicans paid $50,000 to start the thing rolling,
and it's just a complete made-up fiction.
Now they're going ahead with indictments,
and you read this indictment, I've gone over it.
You've got the floor here in the next few minutes.
Tell us what's happening and what's unfolding
and what the next shoe to drop are.
Well, I really think the answer here, Alex,
is when are we going to get a Trump Justice Department?
Right now, we seem to still have the Obama Justice Department.
Rod Rosenstein is the de facto attorney general.
He is a liberal Republican from Maryland
who was appointed at the recommendation,
unbelievably, of Baltimore Democrat Congressman Elijah Cummings.
His appointment was pushed by Reince Priebus,
the former White House chief of staff,
and he is up to his ears as U.S. attorney
in the Uranium One matter.
But incredibly, the Trump Justice Department
is in federal court today arguing against the release
of Hillary's emails.
The Trump Justice Department needs to launch an investigation
at special counsel, if you will,
to look into the matter of Uranium One,
where we know that Mr. Mueller, Mr. Comey,
Mr. McCabe, the associate director of the FBI
who authorized the use of taxpayer monies
to pay Fusion GPS or GPS Fusion for the Dirty dossier
and whose wife received a giant infusion of cash
to her state-Senate campaign from the Clintons,
funded through Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe,
and then, of course, Rosenstein himself.
So it seems to me that we do need a special prosecutor,
but not to look into the non-crime of Russian collusion,
which is unproven, for which there's still no evidence,
but Uranium One, where there is a very real crime,
and we're up a bribery involving the Russians,
Bill and Hillary Clinton, and their foundation.
Now, Roger, separately,
we see massive arrest of pedophiles everywhere.
We know that's a big part of Hollywood's operation.
You've got reports here of top Hollywood star Kevin Spacey
apologizing for trying to rape a 14-year-old at some party.
They're trying to spin that as them coming out of the closet,
and neither you or I, or anti-LBGT, whatever.
The point is, I'm not even concerned
with what people do in their own lives,
but I don't like them when children get targeted,
and you've got that constellation floating around.
You've got the NFL with record low ratings.
The seats are empty.
Everything they touch is falling apart politically right now.
How does that add into the mix of this?
Because even if they're able to bring down Trump,
which I don't think they'll be able to,
it would be a pyrrhic victory
because the public globally is awakening.
Well, and watch the president's tweets.
You see, he totally gets it.
The focus should not be on the question of Russian collusion
and the Trump campaign.
They've spent millions of tax dollars and countless hours
looking into that, and they've come up empty-handed.
If Mr. Mueller is going to bring charges today,
they should have related in some way to Russia.
This clearly is an attempt to pressure Manafort
to make things up against the president.
I've known him over 50 years.
I just don't believe he's going to do that,
that he's not going to lie against the president of the United States
in some bid to save his own skin.
And I'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt in our system.
You are innocent until proven guilty.
I don't even know that he's guilty of the many things he's accused of today.
He's going to have his day in court.
But this is an effort that they use in mafia drug cases
to try to squeeze somebody to bring in a bigger fish.
In this case, the only bigger fish is the president of the United States.
It is outrageous.
We need a justice department that is committed to the rule of law,
and the president's tweet is exactly right.
Why do Bill and Hillary Clinton continue to skate
on provably illegal activities in connection with the Iranian one
and other scandals with impunity?
It's outrageous.
Well, I got to tell you, Roger, that personally,
this just disgusts me so much.
Not that I'm even scared of Mueller and how the media worships him
and acts like he's God and Lord of the Swamp.
It's the way these criminals are so arrogant
in how they're trying to run the country on the ground
and how they're trying to stop the recovery
and trying to kill tax cuts.
And they're just so nasty.
They're beyond any villains and any literature
or any movies I've ever seen
because the strangers with fiction,
these people really think they own America.
And they want a shrunken, starving America
that they can control and buggy whip around.
And I'm just personally done with them.
And I want them to know, no matter what happens,
Mueller and all these other criminals better know
that the only place they're popular
is in the ass end of this country, Washington, D.C.
Everywhere else, they're hated and need to get out of the country.
Well, and Alex, as you know, Twitter suspended my Twitter feed
where I had 298,000 followers
when I objected to Don Lemon on CNN saying an over and over again,
the Clintons have been exonerated on Uranium One.
Now, I look at the feed of Keith Overman,
who uses obscenity constantly,
attacking the president of the United States,
drops the F-bomb.
Twitter won't tell me specifically
where I violated their guidelines.
In fact, they told me that I was temporarily suspended
for three hours and 22 minutes.
And then at the end of that,
my account just went dead.
And by the way, do five more minutes with us
in the next hour before our next guest joins us in the studio.
Dinesh D'Souza tweeted out a composite of dozens of tweets
calling for violence against conservatives,
against libertarians, calling people all sorts of horrible names
by Keith Overman.
He's allowed to be there.
But if you say that Don Lemon is as dumb as dog crap,
you get your suspended.
And that's what the next hour is about.
Antifa is allowed to death threat and attack our guest.
And prominent people and veterans.
And if they just mildly respond back their band,
and it's because, just like the intelligence agencies,
are filled with people like Reality Winner,
it's the same thing at Twitter, Facebook, Google, and others.
So we're going to come back to you here in just a moment.
Before I go any further here, ladies and gentlemen,
we are going to let you know that if you want to fund
our operations in the face of the globalist,
so we can hire more people, have more reporters in the field,
and have more analysts to continue to dominate the globalist
in the middle of this intense war,
you want to go to infowarstore.com today.
And we have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of items there.
We have 50% off on colloidal silver.
Now, that is going to have to end this week.
Super high quality, I don't have to tell you
the great benefits of it.
Now it's a backup for infections and other problems.
Not saying it's a silver bullet or a magic bullet
or a panacea, but it's darn close.
That's why it's called silver bullet.
It's just another option in your arsenal
for yourself and your family.
And it's the very highest quality, 50% off.
Now, we also have anthroplex,
which for stamina, libido, energy, you name it.
That is 50% off.
That's about to end.
And we also have winter sun,
the highest quality organic vitamin D3.
Take it in liquid form under the tongue.
It is 50% off.
And I promise you, because I've been so busy,
I haven't done any specials in a week.
These are gone tomorrow.
They are gone tomorrow.
By Wednesday, these deals will be gone.
infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com,
or AAA2533139.
And it's a commitment.
Sign up for auto-ship.
Get additional 10% off for supporting us and yourself.
So you don't have to forget.
Sign up for every 15 days, every month,
every two months, every three months.
Cancel any time.
Get additional 10% off.
And that way, you're supporting us each month.
And don't forget to reorder these high quality products.
We've got the ozonated olive oil that people love
that sells out so quick.
That just came back in stock a few days ago.
That's going to be sold out in days.
infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com,
or AAA2533139.
We have the new limited edition anti-fascist,
anti-communist shirts that take the antifilogo
and turn it into patriotism to trigger them.
That's the limited edition shirt available
at infowarsstore.com as well.
So take advantage of that.
It's quite a deal at $13.95.
But it takes money to fund a war against the globalists.
You've been doing it.
It's an info war.
And we salute you.
We'll be back on the other side with hour number two
with a massive censorship.
Stay with us.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem
that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food
and water and beverages in my system.
But right now, we're dealing with massive parasites,
which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now, with all the refugees spreading disease around,
we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says
there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing the parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in
because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose.
It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work starting on this great product.
We're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years
because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products
that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com.
Select your favorite product or products.
Click on Autoship and choose how often
you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360WIN.
And with the new Autoship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on Autoship.
Win, win, win at infowarslife.com.
We're shipping on orders above $50.
And all Out of Stock items are never out of stock
when you sign up for Autoship.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
And our next guest has got me so fired up.
They banned his video and it had 7 million views.
That's why every week we have in-studio people
we're celebrating who get more views
and CNN gets in a week.
But they get banned.
They lose their jobs.
They get persecuted.
Stephen Gern is a highly decorated veteran.
I'm not going to go over his old bio right now.
I'm going to do what he's in studio next segment.
He had 48 million views on one video.
He had a bunch of other videos with tens of millions of views.
And they took him down.
Now after protests they put him back up.
But then he got blacklisted from doing his work
for different agencies and groups.
But he's back and he's a fellow Texan.
I'm going to be here in studio with us coming up.
This is powerful information, ladies and gentlemen.
And the reason I bring it up is it dovetails into Roger Stone.
And how you have just been like has happened to other folks
that are too effective, like Milo.
They're saying this may be,
Politico says it may be a permanent ban from Twitter
for daring to challenge the dinosaur media.
Just amazing.
Yeah, it's really extraordinary.
It's hard to say, Alex, because all I've ever heard from Twitter
is that I would be suspended for three hours and 22 minutes.
That was on Saturday.
And after the clock ran down on that,
what they said in their communication to me
was a temporary suspension.
I've heard nothing from them and they don't respond to my inquiries.
I don't even know specifically what tweet they objected to.
Although I think I'm being held to a completely different standard.
It seems to me that Keith Oberman and others have said things
far worse, far less temperate than what I'm accused of saying.
I really think that this was an attempt to silence me
just before the Mueller takedown of Manafort.
Fortunately, people who miss my feed on Twitter
can follow at Stone Cold Truth.
They do a pretty good job of covering my exploits.
It's not like my feed, but they're very adept at keeping up
with what we're doing here at Info Wars and elsewhere.
And I was about to say, as we all get silenced,
it's important for all the listeners and viewers to understand
magnify what Roger's doing.
Magnify what I'm doing.
Magnify what our next guest is doing.
And when we see you getting censored, we magnify what you're doing.
That's why we're winning is because we're not like the left
only out for themselves.
We understand and we stand for something and we are winning, Roger.
That's why the swamp has indicted Manafort.
That's absolutely right.
The most important thing Info Warriors can do
is take the very best stories from Info Wars.
For example, last week, we had an eyewitness
who confirmed that Ted Cruz's father, Raphael Cruz,
was indeed on the ground with Lee Harvey Oswald,
and that the National Enquirer was right.
That link should be retweeted by Info Warriors everywhere.
For this one that's on dredgereport.com by Dr. Corsi,
FBI reliance on discredited fusion GPS Russia dossier,
threatens Manafort prosecution.
And in one minute we have left, we're not just putting a good face on this.
This is doomed. This is a PR disaster.
They already tried to steal the nomination
and steal the seating of the president.
This is more sour grapes and it's not going well.
Everybody I know sees through it.
Well, and now we have ties between CNN
and the chief correspondent there in GPS fusion.
No, the web gets worse and worse
and Wade Info Wars is going to keep covering this story
as it unravels, keep bringing people...
You've announced you are suing Twitter.
Say again?
I saw in the news, are you going to sue Twitter?
Well, I'm, I'm conferring with lawyers.
I mean, yes, if we have a strong antitrust case
or a strong First Amendment case,
I'm hoping they will come to their senses and restore me.
Again, I've never been informed that I'm permanently banned.
I only hear that from reporters.
They don't respond to me at all other than they're claiming
that my temporary, my suspension was temporary.
So we shall see.
Well, that's how they do it when they finally ban you.
They don't want you to know you're banned.
So you get the attention.
They just want to act like the censorship is not happening.
Amazing.
We'll talk soon in FullWars.com.
Reporter Roger Stone with his ear to the ground
and plugged into Pennsylvania Avenue.
You name it.
We'll be talking to you very soon.
Now you're going to be on the war room today,
coming up three o'clock central time
as Paul Joseph Watson will be as well.
Thank you, Roger Stone.
Look forward to it, Alex.
All right, we've got an amazing guest in studio.
Your organic plant extracts are concentrated,
containing antibacterial properties that work well
to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Immix Essentials mouthwash is a great addition
to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough
for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Immix Essentials.
Visit infowarstore.com to learn more.
Let's infowarstore.com.
I know that these are legitimate news organizations.
And at that point, somebody decides to run a scroll past that
and go find Alex Jones while they were looking for him
and speaking with anyone.
That man is threatening this country.
This is my guy on the radio.
His name is Alex Jones.
Alex Jones.
There's a lot of controversy around this step work
about Alex Jones, for example.
It's time to stop submitting in this charity.
It's time to realize that we're being enslaved.
I heard that on Alex Jones.
Info wars went even further.
Info wars.
It's a radio show hosted by Alex Jones.
We are in an information war.
And we are losing that war.
Nobody can dispute the fact that you're a great man.
Info wars.com.
Info wars comes to mind.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Right now, the war is the Info War.
You watch Info Wars?
Info wars.
Info wars.
I got a chair going.
Looking at widely reported information from Info Wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.
Info wars.com.
I want freedom.
That's what I want.
And that's what you should want.
Hello.
This is Hank Hill.
And I'm telling you what, you need to listen to Alex Jones.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Now, out in the control room, Tim Kennedy got here earlier.
He's one of the hosts of the main investigator on Hunting Hitler.
The new JFK documents came out.
And as photos of Hitler alive in 1955 in Argentina, right where Kennedy's been down there investigating.
And Kennedy can't get into their third season.
It's about to air, but they hit pay dirt.
And this document coming out is even wilder.
I think I'm living in the twilight zone.
This is so crazy.
So that's all come up with Tim Kennedy in the next hour.
Stephen Gern, he would take an hour to go over his bio, but I tried to get him on six, seven months ago when he first put a video out.
That got 48 million views in a day and a half.
And they ended up blocking it for months.
So it stopped going viral.
Then all of a sudden the agency that he worked with and the groups that were employing him would no longer do it.
That's the same thing.
It's like Roger Stone Twitter won't say he's banned for life.
We're saying on the news he is, he just goes there and can't log in.
So this is what a technocracy is like.
Tens of millions of views with his other videos.
And the reason I bring this up is that you can have myself or a Brandon Tatum, the black police officer in Arizona or Tim Kennedy or thousands of other people who put up videos that get five, six, seven million views in a day.
Boom, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube either bans them or blocks them until that viral curve stops.
Paul Watson routinely would get videos with 30 million views in two days.
They would just block it.
But his were so hot when they took the block off and still go up.
They just remove them.
But don't even say why they're removed.
So the reason we're raising this folks, CNN doesn't have 20 million viewers in a day.
Okay.
We have more than 10 million a day one way or another.
And that's with all the censorship.
They're all a joke.
They're a fraud.
So I wanted you to know a guy that's been banned from his contracting work for US government agencies, you name it.
A guy that has had them persecute him for telling the truth about radical Islam and what he witnessed.
We're going to introduce him, talk a little bit and play part of the video that's been censored that they don't want you to see.
And then to understand, we're not worried about the jihadis running around out in the bushes.
I mean, they're bad enough trying to kill the soldiers and Marines and folks, but it's the people in the suits.
That's what you were saying today.
The Robert Mueller's the guy at the FBI that took Islam off the radical list, radical Islam.
And you couldn't investigate anybody who was a Muslim as being a potential terrorist.
Period.
They like how to get out of jail, free card, even San Bernardino.
So that's where this is going is you're going to hear the info that they're most scared of, that they don't want you to hear.
Thanks for being here.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Well, I mean, it's amazing.
The people want to hear what you have to say, but they try to block you.
You gave up your career, your livelihood to tell the truth.
That makes you an even bigger hero in my book.
I appreciate that.
You know, that video, obviously, I had no intention of going viral in any way, shape or form.
I was actually, you know, in a ready room with some other teams.
We discussed the executive order that was put out.
I usually challenge my guys pretty often.
And later on that afternoon, you know, I just kind of really didn't sit right with me and I had made a video.
The video was a three minute video, not, not expecting.
I mean, I don't think I had a, I didn't have any followers at the time and I had about a thousand friends in total.
And I put the video out next thing you know, by the next morning it had gone viral.
Didn't even know what a viral video was at that point in time.
From there, I went to the armory, picked up my weapons.
We went out on mission, came back around noon, had noon chow.
At that time, it was like five to eight thousand or five, five or six million views.
Shortly thereafter, I got a call to the office told, Hey, we love the video.
Everything is great, but your life's in danger.
We got to get you out of country.
I said, Okay, when do you need to get me out of country?
And they said, Well, right now there was, there was a plane on the tarmac already and jumped on that plane 30 minutes after I was told I needed to leave.
I had, was able to grab one, one backpack, my passport and head out of the country.
They managed to get me an exit visa and everything else within, you know, 16 hours after the video was made.
I spent a night in Baghdad under a, under a guard force and then from there went to Istanbul, Turkey and Turkey back to Dallas.
And shortly after that got a contacted by Sean Hannity and went on a Hannity show.
But in the meantime from there, everything was shut down.
My Facebook was shut down.
My Twitter was shut down.
Everything just completely shut down.
YouTube shut down.
Gone as if I didn't even exist.
And then they act like they're not censoring when this happened to you.
How many months ago?
This was what seven, six, seven months.
It was like a million years ago.
Now back then they would just say, Oh no, we're not censoring, but your, but your site would be gone.
Now they admit they're doing it and then say, we don't deserve to have a platform.
But then we're so much more popular than anything they've got.
I mean, it's just crazy.
It's gotten so bad.
Like, you know, I've noticed over the last seven months, you were telling me,
you can't even now your stuff banned instantly.
Well, yeah.
You know, last week, I guess a week before I put a, I put a video out.
Basically it was more of me making fun of these, these haters and these people who continue to send me death threats.
So I read out verbatim the death threats that I had gotten.
And within two hours, the video was going viral for sure.
It was already at like 250,000 views.
And within that two hours, it was gone.
Got that whole thing from Facebook saying that this doesn't follow community standards.
So on and so forth.
And my, my Facebook was blocked for 30 days.
Then they let the haters continue to go on and attack you.
In fact, we have a video coming up later after you leave us where Gavin and Millie Weaver went and actually tracked the people that got Roger Stone's account banned.
They're on their Twitter's bragging how they got him banned and also calling for violence.
So SJW has run the big telecoms.
They're in the big inner companies.
There is a silent war, a cold war against patriots, pro-American people, just decent folks.
They call for violence against us.
We simply expose it.
We get banned.
Absolutely.
And you know, it's funny because I was just recently in, in a class called UTT understanding the threat.
And, you know, we talked a lot about the Marxist movement.
I talked a lot about, you know, Antifa, Black Lives Matter, as well as, you know, Islam and Sharia law and so on and so forth.
And how they all, they're all kind of working together right now.
And this is what it is.
It's a Marxist movement is what it is.
I think this is the big overthrow.
Yeah, it is.
And, you know, a lot of people, a lot of left wing don't even understand it.
You know, when you talk to me and say, hey, do you know who Linsky is?
And they don't even know who Linsky is.
And I just, they don't even know their programmer.
No, they don't.
They don't.
It's, it's, it's unreal to look at them and say, how can I even take you serious if you don't even know where you're, you know, what, what fight your fight?
You have no, you don't even know who your daddy is.
No, they have no basis on anything they're actually doing or what they're saying.
So it's just, it's unbelievable.
Linsky, of course, pledged allegiance to Lucifer in the front of his book.
When we come back, we're going to play the big censored video.
And since there's that other one, that's the other one.
So please don't tell my producers or crew during the break, the other video that started to go viral that they blocked.
If you've got a copy of it, I don't know, sometimes folks don't, so we can show people what they don't want the world to see.
But I experienced this as well.
They've got Twitter, Facebook accounts that have been around for two years.
Some of them 500,000 followers calling for Trump's murder.
And, you know, Democrats get on TV and say hashtag hunt Republicans.
And that's okay.
But you say, hey, don't call for violence.
They ban you.
Right.
So I basically said, hey, you know, I made a video about the statues being taken down.
And of course, as soon as I did it, it went viral.
And I was gone.
It had 10 million views in 24 hours.
And, you know, at that 24 hour mark, gone.
It was gone.
Stephen, that's because you're a real guy.
You connect with people.
They don't like that.
They want to shut you down.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Katie armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market.
And we've succeeded with the release of our CQB technology.
We now offer the most comfortable concealable rifle threat body armor available.
Things may look good now.
But what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at catiarmor.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs.
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com.
We're call 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653.
Goberkey.com.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
The Prostaguard formula does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men on the Infowars crew take every day and from our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostaguard on your side today exclusively at InfowarsLife.com. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Infowars has the documents. Read them right now. They're posted in their entire website.
FBI releases heavily redacted Sandy Hook investigation docs.
Leanne McAdoo, Infowars.com.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
Steven Guerns, our guest in studio. He's had some of the most viral videos ever talking about his experience as a Marine and then of course a contractor working for U.S. government agencies in combat zones.
He's an Italian recaptures, tactics, team member, weapons company, platoon sergeant, Marine Corps drill instructor, operations program management, research analysis, intel gathering, training development.
I'm going to go over it all tomorrow on weapons, operations security, multi-party liaison communications systems.
He is on Facebook.com at Steven.grngern.com and he's with us here in studio because imagine all of his videos end up getting millions of views but they all end up getting blocked or basically deleted.
Let's take this back to the time when you like you said like a thousand followers or whatever they're just friends and family and folks you know, to you do this video, what made you decide to make the video that we're about to play that's been censored?
So basically the year prior to or the year moving on to Donald Trump being elected as president, there was a lot of animosity in Iraq.
And I was in a position where I spent a lot of time with the Iraqis pretty much every single day and I would challenge them quite often about their thoughts and their morals and so on and so forth.
Well, something that was being very, very evident was that there was a lot more aggression that was being kind of put toward the Americans mainly because President Donald Trump was going to win the election.
So when the executive order had come out that morning it was funny because that morning obviously the Iraqis were all upset about something which are always upset about something.
So when I got to the ready room, we had talked about what exactly was going on and I had said to him, I said, so as an American, what would happen to me if I went out in town right now?
You know, I already knew the answer but I wanted to hear it from them.
So they told me obviously you'd be killed and so on and so forth and I said, exactly. So why would you even want to come to the United States if you hate Americans so much? Why would you want to come to the United States?
Now the biggest thing about that is that the reason why they want to come to the United States is because they can use all of our laws against us.
Because obviously, you know, Sharia law apparently is a religion which is really not but because they think Sharia law is a religion or we actually allow it to be a religion, they are allowed to use the First Amendment against us, which is a really, really big thing.
And it's something that we really need to address here in the very, very...
The intolerant use our tolerance against us.
Exactly. So they know what they can do and that's why they want to come to the United States and do what they want to do.
So that's what prompted me to make the video. I never really made a video before and when I did make the video next thing I know it had gone viral in such a way that the State Department and my company had gotten ahold of me and said basically, you know, we can't have you in the country anymore
because of death threats and we're worried about your safety and so on and so forth. So I ended up getting removed out of the country and ultimately losing my job over the whole thing.
And to this day they try to censor the videos. It's not enough to make you lose your livelihood and what you believe in. On top of it, they now want to actually shut you up here in America when again, you can't go to Saudi Arabia, you can't go to Iraq, you can't go there and be a Christian,
you can't go there and be an atheist, you can't go there and be gay, you can't go there and whatever. You'll be killed. But then we're saying, hey, but bring people here and then bow down to them and then teach Syria in public schools,
which I first heard that 10 years ago, didn't believe it. It's happening from Germany to the U.S. right now. I mean, we are being taken over.
Where the Democrats are led by Lyndon Sorcerer, whose mother writes books about cutting women's genitals off. This is like a Twilight Zone episode. And then we as Americans can't say, listen, I've been over here for years.
I've been all over the Middle East and all over Central Asia. Like you said in the video, I can't go off base or they'll kill me and they'll kill anybody else. Why in the hell would we bring these people here and why would they want to come here?
You know, and we're saying common sense, we're saying two plus two equals four, you are banned. It's funny, you know, and obviously we talk about the slowing down the refugees or so on and so forth coming into the country.
It's a proven route. It is a proven route that they are able to pose as a refugee and get into countries and create 80% of them, 10 million ever military aged men.
Exactly. I mean, we look at what's happened in the EU that basically that is 100%. That is that is the plan. That is exactly what they're going to do here in the United States if we allow it to happen.
Plane is simple. What they're doing right now in that country have a program. They have a formula and they do and that's in it's part of their bylaws. When you look into, you know, the Muslim Brotherhood and so on and so forth, it's part of their actual bylaws.
It's what they believe and they're following that law to the tee. They're doing and they're spending all their money. They don't go out and see movies. They don't buy fancy clothes.
All of it goes to overthrow the House of War. That's not House of Islam. Everything is overthrow us. Everything has taken us over. Everything is lie about it.
So they get enough numbers and that's why they're again, I've been threatened by the you name it and they say, look, just stop bashing Islam. Just let it come in and we're going to leave you alone.
The main threat is do not talk about Islamic invasion. Just shut up Jones or we're going to get you.
Well, that's what they're trying to do. But obviously we have enough Americans here that, you know, we need to understand exactly what our fight is.
And I'm not saying that we have to worry about the, you know, the black pajama wearing jihadist running down the road with an AK.
I say we need to worry about the suit wearing jihadist that's in the White House right now that's in our government that continue to create policies that are allowing these guys come into the country and pretty much do whatever they want to do.
And we have to bow down. We are basically our government is basically allowing Sharia to be implied onto us as Americans.
And it's crazy. You got Hollywood bashing Christians saying get rid of Christianity when we're totally open and then loving Islam.
Since when did the left love Islam since they got bought off by it?
I don't know the left. I don't think they actually have an idea of what they're doing there. They're in such deseret right now. It's just it's unbelievable.
It's unbelievable. You see, they're calling and biting at everything they could possibly and making something out of nothing. And, you know, we look at the fake dossier right now.
It's just unbelievable the extent of what they have done to create something that's not there. And actually what's happened is they've only, you know, identified themselves and caused themselves to be under the limelight because it was their dossier.
They funded it. I mean, how can you put $9 million into something and not know?
By the way, that's yesterday's number. It's almost $14 million now.
And they don't even realize where this is gone. We don't know where the money came from or that we spent money on that. You know, the left. Come on. You know exactly what you did. And it just didn't work.
Well, they knew that they were in bed with the Russians to a great extent. So they had to blame the pro-America forces as if we're in bed with them.
I mean, they said I'm in bed with no evidence. I mean, I have lawsuits, but I'm too busy even worried about it.
But it's like somebody telling me I'm a Martian. You know, you're a Russian agent and the Russians tell you what to say.
Nobody tells me what to say, including myself. I wish I could get control of myself.
Well, that's the funny thing about it is what they do is it's all accusations. It's not real.
But they think, you know, if I put this out there, maybe it's going to cause a problem or even if it slows down the process for a short period of time for conservatives or Republicans.
That's what they're trying to do. But at this point, because CNN is such fake news and all these other, you know, mainstream media, they're looking to places like Info Wars and so on and so forth to find a better, you know, to find.
That's right. Stephen Gern, stay there, American patriot, veteran, one of the most banned people in the world. I mean, they ban his stuff minutes after it comes out.
They absolutely hate this guy. And more and more, I realize the broadcast has to be whatever their censoring of ours is the most important.
That's what they're afraid of. So that's what we magnify. I know that's common sense, but I just figured it out.
We'll be right back. Stay well with these censored videos.
877-99 Berkey or big Berkey water filters.com. That's one 877-99 BERKEY.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way.
The bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no batteries required.
$39.95 plus shipping and handling. Use discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase at bugassault.com.
Fire your fly swatter and get your bug assault today.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Info Wars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at InfoWarsLife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the public, so please take advantage of it today.
Support your own health and support the Info War.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used and we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
We're not just going to have to end of the next week the BrainForce Plus special 50% off.
I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric, chaga mushroom, bee pollen and more concentrate.
You talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible, my son is growing like a weed using it, it's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible, it is amazing.
Infowarslife.com 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing, I want to thank you, we're all in this together.
And when you get the great Bologna Lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the Infowar.
The rats are leaving the sinking ship. Tony Podesta is stepping down from his power of alarming firm.
Now that's been exposed, he took hundreds of millions in Russian cash.
And his brother, Blaine Trump, hoping it would cover for them, but they failed.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live on the front lines of the InfoWare.
The guy who was in the Washington Post in 2007 showing pictures of naked children on his walls who'd been paddled saying,
I have DeviantArt, I don't care what you think.
Yeah, buddy, we know all about it.
Things aren't going too well for Kevin Spacey.
Apologizing for trying to rape a 14-year-old.
It's all coming out, see how you guys like it.
Your gang raping of America is coming to an end.
Stephen Gern is our guest Marine, decorated contractor, you name it.
I'm not going to get into all the stuff he's done.
Obviously, facebook.com, steven.gern.
Undoubtedly, some of the most viral videos on the web before we play one of these.
And then one of the latest that's been censored where you call down Antifa that's calling for your death.
They're allowed to call for your death.
You're not allowed to say it's wrong.
We have a Millie Weaver video out right now where her and Gavin discovered the same thing on Roger Stone.
They're bragging how they got him banned while they're calling for violence.
You had a story to tell about that.
Yeah, you know, there was a...
This last time, obviously, when I was in Iraq, just before, well, just after the Orlando shooting.
That was actually played in the chow hall that morning.
And obviously, you know, I was over there and a lot of things were going on every time that something would happen.
You know, I would obviously look at some of the Iraqis and say, hey, you know, what do you feel about this?
Well, that particular morning after the Orlando shooting, when we obviously seen what was going on,
I had gotten into the vehicle and when I got into the vehicle, my driver, I won't say his name, but he was a Muslim.
I had asked him, I said, so what are your thoughts about the Orlando shooting, which was a terrorist attack?
And his response to me was, inshallah.
So inshallah means in Arabic, it was God's will.
So that's the mentality of these people.
They don't care whether or not we're dead or alive.
Preferably, they want us dead.
But it was at that point when I really, really realized that there is no working with these people, 100%.
For him to sit there and say to me, inshallah, for all those people who died, it was God's will.
I just pretty much, and that was, you know, shortly after I made the video.
And those are mainly liberal gay people being killed.
I'm not blaming them for it, but I mean, they're trying to bring more of these guys in that want to kill them.
Here you are, a Marine, a Patriot, a contractor over there, trying to stabilize their country, trying to keep super radical,
a hobbyist, ISIS from taking over.
And you mean nothing, even though you're in a vehicle, I couldn't do that.
You're in a vehicle with somebody who doesn't even care that your people just died, just the total disrespect.
They don't care. They don't even want us there. They want the money. That's all they want. They want the money.
We keep building their infrastructure. We build their air force. We build their army.
We keep doing this, and you know what? It just kicks us in the face every time.
We have these foreign military projects that we do over there, and we spend billions and billions of dollars for what?
You know, all they do is they destroy the equipment. They steal it. They bring it out in town. They sell it.
We continue to do this, and there's no reason.
One example I heard was a water truck going to give water to people that didn't have water.
And the guard guarding it stripped down naked and got in the truck and swam around naked and didn't care.
He was going to give them all cholera. It was a total selfishness.
It's just God's will that he wipes his ass with the water supply.
Yeah, that's it. And I mean, because of the sectarian violence and just everything that goes on there, you know, they're just trying to...
We are the primary enemy, but once we're out of the way, they're just going to fight themselves anyway.
You know, I agree. The policy, like Trump said early on, is to get out, but he's trying to stabilize it, knock out the ISIS cancer, and then pull out.
At least that's what the military says. We've had some success. What do you think of what Trump's done so far?
I think he's done great things so far. I just really wish, believe it or not, that we would just go. We would stop.
My thoughts personally at this point, President Trump is doing amazing things, but what we need to do is just stop.
Stop funding all their projects. Get out of Iraq. Get out of Afghanistan. Get out of Syria.
Let them do whatever they want to do. Take that money, put it back in the United States.
If we're going to build a wall, let's build a wall. Let's use the guys that have security, that are doing security over there.
Bring them back home and let them do security on the wall, because you know that...
Sure. I want to forget some of these videos, but what do you make of... I mean, it's admitted that Mueller is like in 10 companies with Russians,
where you're supposed to invest 10 million, but they'd say, oh no, you're in it for free, and then just pay them dividends when you didn't invest.
That's clear pay option. He's on tarmac transferring uranium and killing investigations on Hillary when she's a Secretary of State.
And he's like seriously like a James Bond villain. He's protecting radical Islam in the database, not letting people go after him,
ordering the FBI to not even investigate Mosk. I mean, this is like a serious bad guy, and then they bust Manafort with stuff of like offshore accounts
for foreign elections he ran, and the word is it's not even illegal, and it doesn't have to do with Russia.
How obvious is that?
I don't understand why he's not stepped down. I mean, it's unbelievable to see, you know, the audacity of these people who continue to,
you know, destroy our country, and they do it without any... they sleep great at night.
Impunity.
Just like Hillary Clinton. I don't have that woman sleeps at night, but she obviously does, or maybe she doesn't, who knows.
She gets off on... she liked ordering a standout of Benghazi. And her dominance is to kill U.S. troops.
It is, and she doesn't care, because you know what? For her, it makes money. It really does. It makes money.
There's something seriously wrong with that woman.
Well, let's go ahead and start going to a few minutes of the banned video about a year ago of you laying all this out,
48 million views, and that's, you know, they froze it for a while, probably 500 million that they hadn't blocked it. Here it is.
I don't work over... over in the United States. I work overseas, and I'm currently in Iraq, which is one of the countries that run the list.
And there's been a lot of discussion about the executive order. Obviously, in the United States, there's lots going on.
And over here, there's a lot going on as well. Just a lot of things you all don't see.
So, the other morning, we were having a discussion on the executive order, and a lot of the Iraqis obviously showed their displeasure in this executive order,
and why they feel like they've been betrayed by the United States and so on.
Now, I'm not here to get into a discussion with you about policies or this or that or anything like that.
I just want to talk to you and make a comment about the discussion I actually had with these gentlemen.
So, I listened to what they had to say, and after they were done, you know, yelling and screaming about their opinion on things,
I asked a simple question, and I got an answer to that simple question. I got it without hesitation.
My simple question was, as an American, if I went out in town right now, would I be welcome?
And they instantly said, absolutely not. You would not be welcome.
And I said, okay, so what would happen if I went out in town?
And they said, the locals would snatch me up and kill me within an hour.
I'd be tortured first, and after they were done torturing me, I'd probably be headed.
It would, you know, go on video for everybody to see as, you know, an example.
And so, I already knew this was going to happen, but I wanted to hear it from them.
And, you know, the point of it is, the point I'm trying to make is, you know, this is the local populace that would do this.
This isn't ISIS. This isn't Al Qaeda. This isn't the PMU. This isn't a militia from the Iranians or anything like that.
This is the local populace that would do this.
So, my question to them was pretty simple then after that.
If you would do this to me in your country, why would I let you in my country?
Because all this means to me is that if you had the opportunity to take the life of an American, you would do it.
So, maybe that's something you all need to think about back there.
If this is the way some of these cultures feel, this is the way that these countries feel about Americans,
why would you be so naive to believe that if they came to the United States, they would do anything any different
than what they would do right here in their own country?
Well, that's why they banned it. It's pure common sense. Why would we commit suicide?
We're not welcoming their country. Why would we bring them here?
Supermail Vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean. That means it's pure.
And rest secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war. That's infowarslives.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best selling product, Brainforce.
Now, Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse because the fans of it already are stocking up.
They know how great it is.
A whole bunch of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you and you're supporting the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's 1996 at infowarslife.com or simply call toll free.
Triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
JFK scholars cannot wait.
Longtime Trump advisor Roger Stone was on the Alex Jones show this week.
He said he spoke directly to the president and urged him to release all the documents.
However, Stone notes that the president is under tremendous pressure by the Central Intelligence Agency to delay the release of the documents for another 25 years.
Stone said the issue is now transparency.
What is the government hiding at this point?
He believes the documents will show that JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald was trained, nurtured and put in place by the CIA.
Leanne McAdoo, infowars.com.
We need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Alex Jones here back live.
Stephen Gern is our guest.
Patriot, former Marine Corps drill sergeant, you name it, and contractor.
And then his videos on average get like 5 million views.
One of them has 48 million views.
And that's even after they blocked it for a while then turned it back on.
But you were making a lot of points about why you're here.
You were saying that because the times come, they're blocking people from their own Facebooks, their own Twitters.
And it's becoming, you know, these multimedia outlets like Infowars or Drudge are the only places or Breitbart that will still be able to punch through the censorship.
That's exactly right.
At this point right now, if anything mainstream media, you're just going to get censored.
Everything you do, I mean, if I make a video right now and I say Black Lives Matter, Antifa, anything about Islam, it's calling for killing cops.
If you say calling for killing cops is wrong, they banned that video.
Nothing's more protected than Antifa or BLM.
Why?
I don't get it.
You know, it's all part of this Marxist movement and it's being paid for by, you know, whatever organization, George Soros, if you want to say it.
But, you know, it's obviously being paid for.
He just tripled down with 18 billion.
Well, 18 billion.
Have you seen these method, Antifa people?
I've seen it.
I don't get it.
I mean, you know, these people, they think they're actually going to bring the fight to us and obviously it's not going to happen.
They have no fight in them.
Basically, they're cowards.
They're going to cover their faces.
They're going to, you know, start something and run away.
It's just, it's their AO.
It's what, it's what they do or what we call as TTPs, you know, how they operate.
And overall, I think that enough people are going to get, you know, mad enough about it.
I don't want to curse on here, but enough people are going to get so mad about it that they're just going to stop it.
You know, Republicans coming up this weekend, they claim they're going to kill cops, burn things down, start like, because it was all coordinated.
These indictments and Trump easily, they're going to have marches everywhere, Trump leave office and they're going to kill people, beat people up, and the media is going to cover it up.
Yeah.
So apparently, you know, this weekend on the 4th, actually on the 4th, they're meant to be having a civil war.
They're going to start a civil war.
Okay.
Well, how are they going to, how are they possibly going to do it?
And obviously who's, who's going to, who's funding it?
Because they can't even, you know, get groceries unless money buys them.
Pretty much.
And these people, and again, I mean, obviously, how do you protest?
How do you protest for a week straight?
Seriously, how do you, I work for a living.
So I have to actually go to a job and do something.
So how exactly are all these people able to take a week off of work?
Because I don't know any organization.
George Soros pays thousands a day.
And that's exactly it.
He admits it.
That guy's put an 18 billion.
He just gave, he usually gives 500 million a year to, oh, it's rather U.S.
He just put 18 billion into a fund to overthrow Europe and the U.S.
And, and, you know, he's going to be successful to a point.
He calls it pro-democracy.
Oh.
They're trying to overthrow elected governments.
They call it that.
I don't, I don't get it.
And, you know, I hate to say he's pretty old.
So I don't think he's going to be around much longer.
But he's got that little demon son though.
Oh, well, I'm not going to play this video because you've got some of their clips
and their profanity.
But last week you put a video out and he was threatening you.
All you did was respond and Facebook banned this video.
It's still available on YouTube.
We'll put it on the screen for TV viewers.
For radio listeners, I'll give you the name if you want to see it.
More death threats, fake profiles, and antifa.
Tell folks about this.
So basically in this video, I thought it was quite funny.
Some of the threats that were coming.
So I decided I'm not going to really make a video and say you people are good or bad or whatever.
Basically, I just read the actual comments that were put on Facebook and on YouTube.
I read them out.
And because I read those comments out, I actually got blocked.
They weren't banned though.
The video shows it.
No, they're not.
Some of them have been taking their comments down.
There was an antifa video that I made months and months ago.
And the original video that started that where the antifa member was saying that we're going to go kill Nazis
and we were apparently the Nazis conservatives and Republicans.
That video has been taken down.
But I mean, it takes it takes that much for them to do that for them to take down a video.
I mean, the real reason why they took that video down is because they were protecting that person.
That's it.
You know, when you got a guy is actually loading an AK on YouTube and saying we're going to go out there and kill Nazis.
Then that's a problem.
That's a huge problem.
The communists are so pissed.
This is America.
This isn't some poor third world country.
They overthrow.
They get to, you know, kill a million people.
They are so angry that they just can't finally bring down America.
And then right when Hillary was supposed to be the Messiah, they were supposed to have us.
They were supposed to totally win.
Everything goes to, you know, what for him?
Yeah.
And now, and now it's just they've lost it.
And they think threatening us like it makes us get up in the morning.
They think threatening us scares us.
That's what's funny.
Yeah, really.
I mean, you want to hide behind a mask and you're wearing your, you know, skinny jeans and everything else.
And you think that you're going to actually be able to do something to men who actually have fought for this country.
And you think you're going to stand up to them and basically go, you know, I'm going to fight you.
It's not going to happen.
You're looking at guys who are seasoned, guys who have done this, you know, in fought for the country.
And then you come out there with your little skinny jeans and you think you're actually going to do this.
It's not even a comparison.
It's crazy that the army of Thoros is a bunch of methods that grew up in their mother's basement.
And then Hillary makes fun of her supporters and calls them useless trash in WikiLeaks.
Well, see, she is, there's something wrong with her.
I mean, she needs, she's probably got her own hordes.
She hates her own hordes.
Yeah.
And, you know, everyone's turning their back on her now.
I mean, you have a few, she has a few supporters.
Yeah.
What do you think of the Podesta's resigning?
Well, he needed to because the word is his brother, he works for his brother.
So I mean, they're, they're, they're in deep trouble.
This whole Mueller thing is just desperation.
It is.
And that's like, like you said earlier, we are winning.
And because we're winning, you know, things are happening.
And obviously this dossier and now the rats are leaving the ship.
I mean, they are scattering as much as they possibly can because they realize anybody who was involved.
Actually, I'm surprised Obama is still leaving in the country.
Harvey Weinstein already fled.
Yeah.
Well, and that's the thing.
They're going to start leaving the country.
I was about to say, you can see the momentum.
You can, I'll just say this to like create the rally I want.
No, I always wait until it happens.
I can, we're at victory is in our grasp.
It is.
We just, it's going to be good.
It's going to be good bad though.
It is.
I think it's going to get a lot worse before it gets better.
But at this point right now, we just got to keep steady, keep pushing forward and making sure that we get our word out.
And like you said earlier, the problem is they keep shutting us down.
They don't come together as a group and start working together.
We're not going to be able to get.
Exactly.
They never want to admit their sensory.
You know, they are.
They want the tactic of wearing us out, giving us to give up.
But when we make a bigger deal about the censorship, it makes it even go bigger.
Strize and effect.
That's why you've got it.
Every time they stand up to fight, fight them as hard as you can, just like an exercise of breathing, never giving up.
Absolutely.
So, you know, we talk about viral videos.
We talk about, you know, things that continue to happen.
Well, when a video goes viral, or if it doesn't go viral, or if it's about to go viral and it gets pulled, we need to be able to share that to the next guy.
You know, whether it's, whether it's infoworse.com or wherever we're going to say our videos, open, use them, do whatever you want with them.
Exactly.
When everything, this is precious, everything we're doing, the enemy's scared of it.
And whatever they particularly censor, you know, their algorithm sees it as kryptonite.
Absolutely.
They've realized that the word is getting out.
Now, when they see that many, that many people who view the video in the comments that are on those videos.
And when you got 2000 plus shares on a video, obviously a lot of people believe in what you're being, of what you're seeing.
And they want to kill it in the crib.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
So about your videos killed in the crib at 48 million views.
I mean, it'd be one of the biggest videos ever.
Yeah, I don't, I think it went viral so quickly, they didn't know what to do with it.
And when they realized that they were like, oh my God, we got to stop this.
And obviously they did, but it didn't stop.
You know, it already hit, you know, 48 million views by that time.
You've done so much great work.
That was your next level that you realized.
I was talking to earlier, like, let them blackball me, let them ban me.
I'm just going to come back and fight in America politically.
And now they're really scared.
They really took you, they'd have left you alone and got 100 million views.
You'd probably gone away.
But now that they did that to you, let me guess, now you're back stronger.
And I am.
I mean, I realized, you know, I basically lost my, my main means of making money.
So now I'm here back in the United States.
And what am I going to do?
I mean, I, I get well for now folks go to war pigs, war pigs, where.com and get some great t-shirts info or short.com.
Get our t-shirts as well.
Just religiously fund the operation by the t-shirts.
Give them to local kids, give them to homeless, whatever.
It's about an info war.
Everything's about spreading the word, whether it's the war pigs apparel or infowarstore.com apparel.
We've got a bunch of specials about to end.
Biotruce, Selenium, 40% off.
Survival Shield X2, 40% off.
Secret 12, 40% off.
Super Bowl Vitality, 30% off.
Anthroplex, 50% off.
Those will end tomorrow because we've got new specials, but not as this extensive.
And I get so fired up.
I don't even plug in for 30 seconds an hour.
We need your financial support.
If you want victory, infowarstore.com.
New ball caps in a lot more.
Five more minutes with our guests.
Then, Tim Kennedy, host of Hunting Hitler with the new JFK files released by President Trump,
saying what Kennedy's been saying all along,
Hitler was still alive in Argentina.
Hi, my name is Kate.
I'm a natural oil and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and
invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good? Because people are actually waking up to the problem that
pretty much scares me the most. I mean I try to make sure that I don't put
toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but right now
we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to
your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees
spreading disease around. We have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites. Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
Alright well I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living defense. Infowarstore.com. And folks you
can't lose. It's full of stuff that's great for your body period and you support the
broadcast. Infowarstore.com. Thank you Dr. Group from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance. Live from the
Infowarstore.com studios it's Alex Jones. Stephen Gern. We've got coming up in the
next segment a great American patriot and great UFC fighter and Green Beret.
Tim Kennedy whose third season of Hunting Hitler is about to air. He can't give us
the secrets but he says these new data dumps in the JFK files by Trump showing
Hitler still alive in Argentina in 1955. It dovetails with that that's coming up.
But we were talking during the break and I want to have you back any time. I mean
you just come down here. We'd love to have you contribute your own podcast. Hope
you co-host new shows with us. We're going to go 24 hours a day very very soon
or 20 hours a day. It's just we got to get the crew in place to run all the
shows. But we're doing that right now within three or four months. We'll be
ready. But just in a few minutes we have any other points you want to add other
points you want to get to. And separately we were talking about what is
Antifa. You were saying they're like a mind control. We asked why they're so
dumb. Why they're so weird. Why they act so mentally ill. Why they're such bad
soldiers. These are really autistic victims from what we found. You were
actually on your own saying this. This is the army of Mordor and it makes you
feel sad almost for them that we actually care about their future and they
hate us. Can you speak to that what you were saying? Yeah basically you know what
I see is I see a lot of uneducated younger generation that they don't have
a leader. They don't have somebody to follow. Maybe they don't have a father
figure in the house or something like that. So what they're doing is they're
looking to you know this this alternative and they're not
being educated. They're not taking a look at what you know these these other
generations have done before them. We're talking about back in
1917 and so on and so forth you know during just before the war and what's
happening is history is repeating itself and it's going straight back to where it
was back then. Where you have a generation of people that are uneducated
and I don't mean you know they're not learning in school or they're
not smart. They can do electronics. They're not historically. They're not
free smart. Right. They're not and they're not they're not looking. They're not
looking up you know what the history is all about and actually learning what
happened in history and we are destined to repeat the same thing and when you
when you approach them and you say hey do you know what a Marxist movement is? Do
you know what this is? Do you know what that is? They don't even know they're in it.
They don't and that's the biggest thing. They're shock troops. Bolshevik
Revolution 100 years later like you said and they don't even know. They don't.
They don't and they're being pushed into this because they don't want to look for
the information themselves, read about it, understand it. So they're being put
into this because one you know may talk about mind control. They're soldiers for
George Soros and the globalist and communist and don't even know it.
Antifa how can you say you're anti-fascist when you're doing the
fascist things? It doesn't it doesn't make sense. You know I just not letting
people under the inauguration beating up women and and they're doing it every
day and they're accusing us of doing it but yet they do it every day. It doesn't
make any sense. So when you look at a person like that you have to say there's
there's some sort of mental instability there for you to even do what you're
doing and and take the position that you take. So I don't know obviously we're
still winning this fight but I agree we're winning intellectually. What do you
think's coming over for it? They say they're gonna kill cops, burn things, blow
stuff up. I think it's gonna be a dud hopefully. I think it's gonna be a dud
and the reason they may stand out there and they may say this, they may say that
but at the end of the day they're gonna cover their face. They're gonna bring a
couple little sticks with them and the first time that they throw a punch and
everybody else goes after them they're gonna run off. That's all they're gonna
pull the mask off their face. Pull the mask off their face. But then they'll get
some mental patient. They wound up to run somebody over the car and that whole
thing in Virginia was government run. Absolutely that that that made no sense.
It just that whole thing was well the good news is stir things up. That's all
it is, Alex. That which does it kill us only makes us stronger and you're
reaching bigger audiences than ever and now they've run you out of your
livelihood defending America so now you're telling me you're gonna be full
time fighting the Info War. I'm excited Stephen. I appreciate it. Thank you for
having me. It's great. They just made another big giant enemy. They think your
hundreds of millions of views are bad now. Wait till you're writing books doing
speaking tours and co-hosting this show with me along with Tim Kinney and
everybody else. Absolutely. God bless you brother. Thank you. Thank you so much.
All right that's Stephen Gern, G-E-R-N, Twitter, S-W-G-E-R-N. Be sure to follow him.
I'm Alex Jones at Real Alex Jones. We'll be back. Stay well. All right get some
luck. Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and
Biotrue Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and
health. Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a
source of 100% organic mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an
essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and
overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to
support the systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this
super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium
at InfowarsLife.com. My understanding is that you went out with this protector of
yours. Yes. Went out in fact and helped them the confiscation of property from
Jews. That's right. Was it difficult? Not at all, not at all. Maybe as a child you
don't you don't see the connection. It created no no problem at all. No feeling
of guilt? No. Well actually funny way it's just like in markets that if I weren't
there somebody else would would be taking it away anyhow and it was the
whether I was there or not the property was being taken away. So I had no sense
of guilt. Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign, and domestic. It's
Alex Jones. Get me Roger Stone. Oh wait I can't get a hold of Roger Stone because
he's been suspended from Twitter. I'm getting no signal from it sir. And SJW
trolls have been bragging and fighting over who gets to take credit over Roger
Stone being suspended from Twitter. Now let's take a look at these
controversial tweets that Roger Stone tweeted that landed him in Twitter
jail. At Don Lemon stop lying about the Clintons and uranium you ignorant lying
cough sucker. You fake news you dumb piece of shit. I picture Roger Stone
sitting there flipping through his television coming across CNN fake news
and hearing Don Lemon spew more BS and lies and I think he just really kind of
lost it and just had to give it to him on Twitter. When AT&T acquires Time
Warner the house cleaning at CNN of human excrement like Don Lemon, Jake Tapper,
and dumb f*** Anna Navarro will be swift. But wait it's not like any of these
tweets even violate Twitter's rules so let's see what these SJWs are bragging
about and claiming how they got Roger Stone's Twitter account suspended in the
first place. The first tweet claiming to have taken the great Roger Stone day
down is by David A. Wood, a snarky passionate advocate for acceptance, inclusion, and
humanitarianism. I'm sorry but your description offends me itself so maybe
I should just flag your account right now. I have reported this tweet which
appears to encourage harm be brought to someone. So apparently encouraging harm to
be brought on someone is calling them a pile of human excrement or a dumb f***
or a dumb lying piece of sh**. So calling somebody names you don't like is somehow
inciting violence. It's not like other people aren't calling for Donald Trump's
death on a daily basis. I don't see Twitter suspending their accounts. These
SJWs are out of control because after all remember words are violence. You know
I don't know about you but I would rather somebody call me names than punch
me in the face. Then we have an SJW claiming that this troll needs to be
nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize due to the selfless sacrifice you've made here
tonight. This is what happens when every kid gets a trophy in school. You should
get trophies now for being trolls on the internet. Not for actually you know
discovering the cure for cancer, creating world peace, no being a troll on the
internet, getting Roger Stone kicked off, Nobel Peace Prize for you. So of course
we have other SJWs claiming I have done the same. I did too. Me too. Ditto. I'm reported it as well. It's full of harassment towards Mr. Lemon. And I do find it kind of
fitting that Don Lemon's last name is a lemon. Someone sold us a lemon. Roger is a douchebag and as narcissistic as 45.
But wait a minute, isn't calling him a douchebag a sexist, misogynist term that she gets you violated from Twitter yourself?
You did the right thing, David. Might have saved a life.
I'm sorry, saved a life. Aren't we getting a little bit dramatic?
Dear Netflix, cut your ties with Roger Stone. I'm closing my account and will not be opening it as long as you're promoting this racist TOS.
I'm sorry, but how the heck is Netflix promoting Roger Stone by doing a hit piece propaganda film about him?
But wait, we have another person letting the original troll know he reported Mr. Stone first.
I reported it before I saw your tweet. I did it first. Me, me, me, me.
Now this one really takes the cake. This again is from the original troll that decided to take credit for getting Roger Stone suspended from Twitter.
He later tweets, Note yourself. Don't bloat. It isn't pretty.
Yes, he has been bombarded with trolls. We're talking SJW trolls saying, No, I did it first. I get the Nobel Peace Prize.
I get the trophy. Hippocrite much, double standard much, or just liberal logic.
All right, for the rest of the hour, Tim County, my good buddy, Green Beret, Patriot UFC fighter, talk show host, host of an investigator on Hunting Hitler is with us.
And I was trying to get him on a month ago about hunting Hitler as the third season was coming out. He said, I got to wait.
But then this weekend I'm on his Twitter and I'm on my feet and I see, OK, I didn't read these new documents out of the JFK stuff.
But sure enough, I went to the National Archives. There it was. Hitler in 55, photographed in Argentina like everybody always said.
They found the witnesses, the old submarine, German mansions built in the middle of mountains.
I mean, wow, now you can't tell us the new stuff. This is a short segment, but coming up, you're telling me, Tim Kennedy, this is dead on.
Yeah, we've known it for a long time. People have suspected it, but we have real evidence. Like, you cannot deny the proof that we found.
You can't deny the documents that are being released.
So third season is the total money shot of a hit show.
We found things that people have been looking for for 75 years and we found actual evidence.
You found the submarine is all that stuff. I mean, a real U-boat with the capabilities of transporting high-value targets.
There's Germans everywhere. I mean, they admit a lot of them did go over there. We had the Operation Paper Club here.
Yeah, we, the fascists, the enemy of our friend, or the, what, how does it go? Our enemy, our friend's enemy is our friend.
Yes, yes, it's the enemy of my enemies, my friend.
Yeah, there we go. We hated socialism. We hated communism. I still do.
And in the South, we found that fascism was an opportunity to fight communism growing in Venezuela and Argentina.
So these fascist dictators, we maybe even helped and we found real evidence of what they're doing and how they're doing it. It was frightening.
Incredible. But I mean, how is it, Honey Hitler comes out a few years ago. It's a top show on History Channel.
And then now, right as it's about to come out, CIA files as he tried to block, Hitler was alive down there.
Do you have any idea how old he was when he died or where he may be buried?
Well, first of all, thanks for the CIA for releasing that 30 days before the TV show comes out.
That's fantastic work. I had all the totals to do with that.
No, you know, whether he died in that bunker where he didn't, we took a different approach for this season.
We did the exact same thing that everybody has done in the past 10 years searching for terrorists.
We, the way that we caught bin Laden, the way that we caught Zarkawi, we looked at their network.
We followed the information, the trails and the evidence of the people that were facilitating these high-level Nazis.
Guys like Skorzencki, guys like Joseph Mengele.
Klaus Barbie.
Yeah, Klaus Barbie. Perfect example.
We trailed those guys from where they left Germany, how they came into Argentina, where they lived, who was in charge.
And by that, we brought in this girl Nadia. She was crucial. She was one of the most important CIA targetters that worked in finding bin Laden
and finding Zarkawi that brought down the Al-Qaeda network in 2006.
We brought her in specifically to do targeting for these Nazis in the 40s and the 50s and even into the 60s and 70s in South America.
And we, you know, we are.
Now that I think about it, look for other Nazis and then track back where they came from.
That's going to find where Hitler at least landed.
They can try to track where he went.
Yeah, you can't just look for the man.
The man disappeared. South America is a massive, beautiful country.
And when you got Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile, Brazil, all of them friendly to fascism, to Nazis on the run.
It's like trying to find a needle in a whole continent.
Yeah, but we just took the whole entire haystack.
We took the ground and then we just picked up that nice little piece of metal and said, got you.
Wow, we'll be right back with Tim Kennedy, hunting Hitler season three.
This is Michael David from Seattle.
I'm 51 years old and six months ago I started taking Andrew 400 to increase my testosterone.
Since then I've lost 35 pounds of fat and my waist went from size 38 to size 32.
I have more energy and I look and feel 20 years younger and now my wife tells me I have to take Andrew 400.
Hi, this is Ron Johnson from Utah.
After 10 weeks of taking Andrew 400, I lost 13 pounds and my waist went from 36 to 33.
That was eight years ago.
I continue to take Andrew 400 and I've maintained my weight at 172.
Gained muscle and energy.
I'm 63 now and feel better than I have in 30 years.
Andrew 400, the natural way to increase testosterone, lose belly fat, gain energy and feel great.
Try Andrew 400, the safe, effective, affordable way to boost your testosterone.
Go to andro400.com or call 888-400-0435.
In an emergency, you need a fire now, but what if the wood is wet? No problem for InstaFire.
In an emergency, you need a fire now, but what if the wood is wet? No problem for InstaFire.
Fire in an instant.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at infowarstore.com, including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen,
date-free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo and long-lasting natural deodorant.
Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA, made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new Emmerich Essentials line of organic products.
That's infowarstore.com.
It is amazing.
Infowarslife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless.
We're bold because we understand the stakes are too high.
The globalists win.
We're all slaves.
So don't thank me for what I'm doing.
I want to thank you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Bologna Lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're fighting the tip of the spear.
Again, visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the Infowar.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Tim Kennedy says the most amazing stuff during the breaks.
We got to get it repeated now here on air.
Tim Kennedy, Tim Kennedy MMA.com, Twitter, Tim Kennedy MMA, Facebook, Tim Kennedy MMA.
Doing so much more, as you said, MMA is just one part of the great work you do in the military.
I know it's been in the news.
You've re-enlisted.
I know that's all classifieds.
We can't get into it.
But you're doing a lot of important work.
Probably better.
You just leave the conversations.
I don't get anything secret you're doing.
But right in the middle of it, you're the main investigator of many other great ones on hunting Hitler right as the CIA files get declassified, partly on Friday, fully on Saturday, saying, OK, Hitler's alive.
Here's the photos.
Here's where he's at.
Here's what's going on.
What do we do?
Nothing happens.
You were telling me during the break, why nothing happened?
It's a bummer part.
When you look at Hitler, he's a deplorable, disgusting, evil human that killed millions and millions of people, 10, 20 million people.
And the acts that he committed, we can't overlook and can never be forgiven.
Fascism should never exist in any capacity.
But at the same time, at the end of the war in 1945, there's no question what the next worry was.
The next enemy is going to be communism.
And when you have Mao killing, you know, 45 million people and then Stalin.
That's conservative, by the way.
The lowest estimates for Mao in the 45 million is up to 100 million.
If you look at Stalin, the lowest estimate in the 20 million up to 65 million.
So while, yes, Hitler is a horrible thing, we have the founder.
That's a monster that's already defeated.
Hitler's gone. He's dead.
Fascism is not going to be rising again.
And we know that.
But we know the great threat is now the red threat, the communist threat that is trying to infiltrate into Asia.
It's trying to make its way into South America.
Already had Hollywood.
Completely by the balls.
It is in North America.
Using Soviet sex operatives.
We had to fight with the most vicious fire that we could get our hands on.
And that was fascism.
And that's why you have the rat line and paperclip.
But then Hitler, obviously, the really bad ones, we know, they actually set the South America.
They were kind of on their own.
That's what everybody always knew.
They made movies about it.
But to see the rumors true.
And then you're the guy that has the big TV show investigating it.
Yeah.
You know, unless I have Hitler's body, I can't say, here's the smoking gun.
This is what happened to Adolf Hitler.
What I know is the high ranking Nazis made it out of South America.
Or they made it out of Germany into South America.
In South America, while they were there, they were being used for a multitude of reasons
to include fighting communism and socialism.
And why was it in the JFK files?
Why is anything about Hitler in the JFK files?
Well, the JFK files are fighting communism.
That's what they're about.
If you look at what was happening in Cuba, and even maybe the potential assassin, who he was working for,
who he was talking to, where he was going to be defecting to, it all comes down to communism.
And Hitler is in those files because he and the rest of the Nazi party
were a great tool in the fight of communism post World War II.
Fascism's gone.
We defeated the Germans.
And we know deals were almost made at the very end of World War II to actually merge with the Germans
and take it on the Soviets then.
Patton wanted to do that.
One reason he was an assassin then.
Yeah.
1945 was the beginning of our next biggest, greatest war, which we're still fighting now,
which is the war against communism, the war against socialism.
And MacArthur wanted to, a few years later, in 1953,
they removed him when he was about to beat the Chinese in Korea.
We've never truly defeated the communist ideals.
And I don't know for what reason.
We have had multiple opportunities where we could have crushed them,
but we just kind of let them exist.
And it perpetuates, I don't know, the war.
And now Antifa is literally...
They don't deserve that name, by the way.
Because they're not anti-fascists.
No, they're not.
America was.
Yeah, America is.
Yeah.
Just say America.
If you want to fight fascism, if you want to fight socialism, if you want to fight communism,
just say you're American, because that's what we are.
We don't burn flags.
We don't take a knee when the beautiful national anthem...
We don't ban people's free speech.
We don't wear black uniforms.
That's communism and fascism.
So, again, so obviously they're communists.
They know they're communists.
A lot of them don't even know who they are.
They claim they're going to cause civil war this weekend.
I think it's going to be a dud.
Guy!
I mean, it's going to be a dud.
Because they're incapable and they're impenitent little children that they have no idea even
what they're fighting for or how to fight.
So, the fact that they think that they're going to show up and be able to overthrow a government,
that there's men like me and there's thousands, tens of thousands of men like me that love
America, that are barrel-trusted freedom fighters, that we think that we're just going to allow
you to come on some arbitrary day on November 4th and be like, all right, we're going to
get rid of this Pence and Trump group.
Not going to happen.
And that's my next point.
You made a great point in your own words about this Mueller indictment or indictment.
You weren't talking about draining the swamp.
Everybody was talking about Mueller and like, oh, this special investigator.
He's really pulling the lid off now.
No, everything that he is showing, he is exposing the true corruption.
And the fact that Trump was able to fire this man months after he hired him, realizing that
he did not fit in with the values and the ethics and the things that he wants to perpetuate
to what is now this beautiful administration, Mueller is really showing that Podesta and
the collusion with the Russians had nothing to do with Trump.
And the fact that he's making these arrests and these indictments even more supporting
what we already know that-
Yeah, it's not filing tax forms.
And then they call that money laundering when he was running whole campaigns in Europe that
were pro-America.
And then he was the guy that was the paymaster.
And they're claiming those transactions were fraudulent because they didn't file tax forms
in the U.S. when they were foreign tax forms.
No, these are any interaction or collusion that happened was way before Trump.
And now the fact that Trump got rid of him before anything ever happened with him is
just another indication that there's nothing more, that this is going to be-
Exactly, this is their big shot.
This is Mueller hit us with everything he's got and all he's hoping is Manafort and Rich
and others get scared and then say, okay, I'll say whatever you want.
Yeah, with what's being revealed about with GPS and Hillary Clinton and what Manafort
is coming, revealing that there was multiple opportunities for collusion, but none of it
had to do with Trump.
All it's doing is exposing all of the other evil things that our politicians were doing.
So this is just a great, I don't know if it's strategic, but it might be a flawless
execution on Trump and his administration to really show how dirty and evil and corrupt
Hillary and the rest of those administrations and politics were.
What you were saying to me during the break, they're kind of draining themselves.
Yeah, and inadvertently, they're like, oh, look what we just found, we got a great indictment.
It's like, you realize you're blowing the lid off yourself and you're exposing that one Trump-
And that's the thing, I don't just put a positive spin on things to feel good.
Everything's starting to go our way.
They act like such buffoons.
They're involved in such corruption.
But I wonder, what's the next level of their temper tantrum?
I don't want to be too confident.
No, that's a really scary thing.
When about Hitler and anti-fa gun control, any time you want to get an idea about if
the government's lying to you or if a group, anyone is lying to you, look at what their
narrative is.
Look at what their agenda is.
Look at what they would need to happen for propaganda purposes.
And then see how that occurred in the news.
And I know governments lie to us.
Like, we've known it forever.
We know that Benghazi didn't happen because some guy in Hollywood made a video.
We know that JFK, that communism was involved in its assassination, even though it had been
denied for decades.
We know that now.
So we need to look and say, OK, if there's a reason that they're saying this, if they're
trying to draw our attention over here, whether it's a shooting in Las Vegas, whether it's
riots in the street on November 4th, it's going to be for a reason we have to be ready
for.
Let's talk about that when we come back on the other side with Jim Kennedy.
Stay with us.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Find your happiness with pure soap.
These all-natural, earth-friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk, get a 12, 36, or 48-month supply, or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and
natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real
soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E-STAR-SOAP.COM.
Or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
You know, someone very profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes
to America, it'll come in the name of liberalism.
Get a white male!
You're a white male!
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose AutoShip before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
AutoShip because we hold back a surplus for AutoShip customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders of about $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products
that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareShore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new AutoShip feature at InfoWareShore.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip.
Win, win, win at InfoWareShore.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all AutoStock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3,
selenium and copper.
Prostagard is something that the men on the InfoWareShore crew take every day and from
our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in
order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostagard on your side today.
Exclusively at InfoWareShore.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
From the front lines.
We have the exclusive on the JFK files.
We have the exclusive on the indictments.
But it's not that we're that good.
It's that mainstream media is so horrible.
People don't trust them to give them exclusive.
Just briefly.
To support the broadcast, we have specials on vitamin D3, winter sun ending tomorrow,
50% off.
Loyal silver, 50% off.
50% off a bunch of other great products like Anthroplex.
That's stamina, libido, energy, you name it.
These are just known high quality staples at discounted prices.
InfoWareShore.com.
We've got a lot of new t-shirts, a lot of other t-shirts that are basically limited edition
that we're not about to manufacture anymore of.
The current Hillary for Prison 2017.
That's about to sell out.
We're running this for one month.
Anti-fascist, anti-communist, infowars.com.
We take the antifascist and anti-communist shirts.
I'm just pro-America, which means I'm pretty much all against everything else.
Exactly.
But it looks like the anti-filoga.
Yeah, it does.
So it's going to really trigger them.
Yeah.
I love triggering them.
So that's only one month.
That's all folks.
Thank you all for your support.
Take advantage of those specials.
Tim, I asked you during the break, third season of Honey Hitler.
You can't give me any secrets.
You were down there for months shooting this.
In jungles, you name it.
Just the other seasons finding the U-boats and finding these big German mansions in the
middle of these gorgeous mountains.
People saying, yes, Hitler's here in underground bunkers.
We know a bunch of Nazis ran there.
We know 36,000 came to the U.S.
Most out of Argentina.
They've got Hollywood movies about the boys from Brazil with Gregory Peck, where they're
down there making Hitler clones.
Makes me ask, you know, what's going to come through next here?
Just incredible job.
But you gave me the inside scoop, not violating your NDA.
But you were telling me you're on the fence.
It was pretty sophisticated what you said.
Once you said it, it all clicked.
What do you really think?
I think that the plan was in place for Adolf Hitler to get out.
I think that they had made every, you know, if he's number one command, his number two,
three, four, five, and six, they would have put in place how to expel him out of Germany.
And they had a Ford group that were set ahead of time to start preparing for his arrival
in South America.
And we know those guys.
We know the Barbies, the Skorzenks, the Adolf Eichmanns.
And some of them were caught, some of them weren't.
The ones that were caught, that was by design.
They were in deals with the Israelis, for example, and the IDF caught Eichmann.
But it was always for a reason.
And at the end of the war in April of 1945, what happened to Adolf Hitler?
What was his demise?
I don't know.
But I know that the process of how he was going to get out was perfectly executed.
And that's what we dug into for season three.
Incredible.
You guys have found the Nazi escape base in Argentina.
Without a doubt.
We found the files.
Joseph Mengele, I have in my hands his hand signature on the ship that he boarded, the
roster of...
Congratulations, by the way.
This is the stuff I grew up as a kid wondering about.
And my grandfather, he was in the military, bitching about Nazis in Texas.
My mom going, he's a little eccentric.
Like, this is all lore and now it's being proven.
There's no doubt.
There's no question.
This is proof.
This is fact.
His own signature in multiple different forms, his own visa, how he came into Argentina
and where he went, his marriage certificate.
Like, we found everything.
And there's no...
Well, exactly.
Why was the angel of death protected?
And then you'd have some guard at a death camp.
Fine.
Send him to prison.
But why is the guard sent to prison?
And then Mengele could run around.
So I believe that Joseph Mengele was in charge of regions of South America.
That he was kind of in the pragmatic organization, the sailor organization.
He was in charge of regions of South America for the fascists fighting the communists.
So those that don't know, Joseph Mengele, the angel of death, one of the most disgusting
humans ever to...
Medical experiments on thousands.
Injecting blue into little kids' eyes to see...
Freezing them to death.
Taking twins and torturing one to see...
I mean, just like you can't even process.
And this man escaped and lived into old age and died of old age in South America.
And he...
What was the... from my research, they had trillions of days' money hidden, and so they
parlayed that into deep state groups.
So a few Nazis got busted here and there when they weren't coughing up the goods.
Yeah.
But not anybody crucial.
Not anybody important.
Not anybody...
The ones that got caught, they had either served their purpose and they had kind of expired
their usefulness.
Or they were such an asset that they were able to be traded and exposed and handed off like
Adolf Eichmann when he was given to the Israelis.
It was for a reason and a reason to create a better, stronger partnership with the Israeli
Intelligence Agency when we handed him to them.
So this, we know, we discover the route lines.
We found who was facilitating, who was involved, who was there, you know, and that communism...
Imagine that.
It was at the root of a lot of it.
And there's no question what these guys did after that.
Wow.
And I've got to say, this has been going on like three years, or how long has Honey Hitler
been going on?
Yeah.
The investigation has been going on for three and a half years now.
Two hit seasons, which the first was amazing historic in Europe, the second I thought was
incredible.
The third, you're telling me, really delivers, well, the others already did, how it's crazy
to have this come out in the JFK files 30 days before your show's about to hit.
Wow, congratulations.
Yeah.
I mean, History Channel called up, you know, the director of the CIA and said, hey, could
you please release these for us?
No.
I mean, is it secret?
Is it your serendipity?
Yeah, I don't know.
It was fate.
Let's just bring them in briefly.
This is me with this next segment.
You're going to be co-hosting with us.
Dr. Jerome Corsi, best-selling author, worked for the State Department in a lot of their
important work, fighting the globalist.
I know you're an expert on the Nazis as well.
One area of the JFK files, I know you knew JFK yourself personally.
What do you make of...
Trump really delivered, my view.
These files are basically unredacted.
No wonder they didn't want these to come out.
These are incredible.
By the way, congratulations on the series.
You know, I also wrote a book called Hunting Hitler, which did very well, preceded your
series of same name, Hunting Hitler.
I didn't even know that.
We've done it everywhere.
I love it.
And we agree.
I mean, I came to the same conclusion, and of course, I didn't have all the documents
you had, but I have enough of the documents to know that the FBI was Hunting Hitler in
Argentina.
By the way, this is Terry Dipponni's synchronicity.
I didn't even...
Of course, he...
20 years.
I didn't even know he'd written this.
I'm now in the Twilight Zone.
Sorry.
Go ahead.
Well, and I've admired the work you've done on the Hunting Hitler HBO series.
I think it's spectacular.
I wish I had the research budget to go down and do what you guys have done, but you've
really broken the case wide open.
And now that we have these caches of documents coming out of the FBI on what really happened
to Hitler, I think it's indisputable.
I was about to say, though, I mean, I knew you were an expert on Hitler, and so I've
forgotten...
Remember years ago, you'd actually written that book.
You'd mentioned it.
You've done so much.
It's just crazy.
InfoWars reporter, Dr. Corsi, honored to have him here.
But how crazy is it without me even knowing?
I just thought, hey, we ought to have you on today when Tim Kennedy's here, and then it's
just all...
But separately, what do you make of Trump?
Because we'll get into the whole indictments with Tim and you in the next segment.
Why is Trump doing this?
This is so hardcore, because the media's spending it that he didn't do anything.
Well, the other presidents blocked it.
He didn't.
Well, I mean, first of all, I think Donald Trump fully appreciates that he's facing
a deep state threat himself.
And this gets clear today, and I've been writing about this all day, all morning, about the
Manafort indictment.
You've been saying for six months they're going to indict Manafort, and then next they're
going to go after Trump.
That's right.
And Trump's got to watch it, because the Mueller and the FBI, they're crooked prosecutors.
And Trump is going to release these files, and I think he's not going to be satisfied
here.
There's also thousands of pages that have been released before that are still redacted.
And we're going to encourage Trump to go back over the whole file and release everything
unredacted.
And it might not hurt to send us into the CIA to look around and ask a few questions.
I mean, I'm sure that there are yet documents that are hidden and squirreled away that we
might never get at.
But this treasure trove we're getting is making it absolutely clear that when the assassination
occurred, the FBI, the CIA, and Johnson were all in a rush of judgment to declare that
Lee Harvey Oswald was the lone shooter.
Sure, even CBS has the headline that Hoover told folks, we're going to say it's a lone
gun and get that out.
Jim Kennedy is our guest, popping in as I was around Corsi, who I had no idea.
I've forgotten.
He's written so many best-selling books, wrote Hunting Hitler.
They have the host of Hunting Hitler here.
So this is true twilight zone.
We'll be back.
Stay with us.
infowars.com, newswars.com, prisonplanet.com, those are censored sites.
We've taken thousands of years of known research and put it together with our own four years
of seeking and testing to find the very best systems that God gave us through Mother Nature
to detoxify the body.
That's why I'm introducing ZShield, Toxic Metal and Chemical Defense Support.
It's made in the USA.
It's filled with known compounds from nature that are absolutely associated with detoxifying
the body and it supports the info war.
It is a classical 360 win.
This is the formula that I personally have been taking for over a year.
And now we believe we have come as close to perfection when it comes to a detoxifier as
you can possibly get.
You owe it to yourself.
You owe it to your family.
And you owe it to the future of this country in the world that patriots stay as healthy
and as clean and as focused as you can be because we need you, the remnant of America, to reignite
those brush fires the next level and to be healthy and as focused as you can be.
Thanks to your support and your prayers together, we're changing the world.
Now it's time to change our bodies with ZShield InfoWarsLive.com.
This week, the FBI released over 1,500 heavily redacted documents concerning the Sandy Hook
investigation.
In many cases, entire pages are redacted, but unredacted portions of the Sandy Hook
documents continue to support the narrative.
20-year-old shooter Adam Lanza was a lonely, tech savvy, high school dropout and experienced
shooter with an interest in weapons, a functioning autistic with a personality disorder and a
recluse who like to play video games all day.
But there's one key update on page 41.
A source told agents that Lanza, while in the ninth grade, was visited at his home by
either CIA or FBI agents after hacking a government computer system.
The source said authorities told Nancy Lanza that if her son was that smart, he could have
a job with them someday.
InfoWars has the documents.
Read them right now.
They're posted in their entirety at the article.
FBI releases heavily redacted Sandy Hook investigation docs.
Leigh Ann McAdoo, InfoWars.com.
From over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal
function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at InfoWarsLife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the InfoWars.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated, containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Imrex Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker source.
Go organic today with Imrex Essentials.
Visit InfoWarsStore.com to learn more at InfoWarsStore.com.
Everything they do to us, they then say we're doing.
They're a bunch of Russian agents, sold out to every country that will buy them off.
They say we are.
Well now, shock video on InfoWars.com, this just broke.
Trump supporter Mose Down Dreamers, in Soros funded ad, it's a little black kid and a little
Muslim girl.
As a Muslim girl, she wouldn't be allowed outside.
And she also wouldn't be going to school, so sorry.
Exactly, and you've got a guy with a Gadsden flag license plate, and then he's got the
name of a guy, Galybsby, who's running for Congress on the back of it with a rebel flag
and he runs them over and they claim tenuously that they can use what happened in Virginia
in Charlottesville as the pretext when all three leaders of the white supremacist groups
turned out were working for Obama just a year ago.
I want to roll this shocking ad with children in fear porn, in murder porn, being run over
on America's streets by the evil white man, and then we've got, I forgot to show it, we've
got the Austin Chronicles, this is a show, this is this week everywhere, every American
city, it says armed white male, that's the new Halloween horror person, Halloween mask
on the cover.
Talk about hitlerian propaganda, it's happening, here is the new George Soros ad.
Nice little kid playing basketball, there comes the rebel flag, total race wars what
they're pushing, poor Hispanic child, it's just been running, here comes the truck, here
comes the white man, man Soros is a joke, they're running, it's Gillespie running for
Congress, run run run, the portable Muslim girl, of course it's the Muslims using the
cars everywhere to run people over, but again, that's what you do, you project it onto America
and the evil white man, now the big Ford, heavy duty, is that a Ford or is that a Ford?
That's his nightmare, it was just a nightmare, poor.
Is this what Donald Trump and Ed Gillespie mean by the American dream, Latino victory
fund paid for and is responsible for the content of this advertisement, it's like yeah, we'll
go to an Islamic country and you really will have that happen to you, I mean, this is next
level.
At best, like you could wish that little girl, I bet she wished that she got run over by a
truck because otherwise she'd be sentenced to a lifelong of enslavement, she couldn't
go to school, she wouldn't have a backpack, she wouldn't be walking down the street, none
of those things would be happening in any of the places that I go and work, her genitals
would be cut off, it's complete mutilation, so every instance of whether it's London
Bridge or it's France during the Patriot parade, these have been radical extremists
hopping in vehicles and running over people, I tell you what, if you're scared and you're
a Hispanic, Latino and you're walking down the street and you're worried about somebody
coming and getting you, I'm driving a big white Ford truck right now, run to my truck,
you're gonna be safe.
And by the way, get your own second amendment, you're an American.
Here's mine right here.
Yeah, that's how it works, but my best friend sitting in there, he also drives a massive
big Ford truck, run to him.
I do too, I'll put it out of the silver one, Ford should be pissed off by this ad.
I'll be infuriated, but what I'm saying is the people, the freedom-loving Americans,
those are the ones that I would, I've put my life on the line multiple times.
Well, this just shows how desperate they are.
It's incredible.
You were pointing out that you think this will drain the swamp, they've bitten off more
than they can chew, it looks horrible, they're totally about the corruption, Dr. Jerome
Corsi, your story is top linked on drudgerport.com, dealing with the fact that to FBI reliance
on discredited fusion, GPS, Russia dossier threatens manifold prosecution.
The next five minutes, give us the data boil down, the inside scoop we broke yesterday
who would be indicted today about what's really happening here.
Yeah.
And also I meant to say the history channel for your special, and I've taken all the,
I've taken the shows and watched them multiple times, we're a complete agreement, you're
doing a good job.
Let me break this down.
What has happened is that the FBI went and used this fusion GPS, RCA, which they paid
for to the FISA court as the basis to get a wiretap, electronic surveillance on Manafort
for well over a year, and they didn't tell the FISA court that the FBI had paid for this
or that the Democrats had paid for it, Hillary's campaign, Perkins Coy, the DNC, running it
through Perkins Coy so the Hillary would have deniability and the DNC would have deniability.
It violates campaign laws and from the FBI's point of view, if they obtained a fraudulent
FISA court warrant and they then proceeded to do electronic surveillance on Mueller,
and by the way, leaked it to CNN, which again is another crime, I mean there are at least
two crimes.
Let me ask you this, did they speed it up because all the news came out, did they speed
it up because all the Uranium One came out last week, did they speed this up to cover?
Yeah, I see that my point is all this FISA court will be thrown out, in other words,
this is a very serious impediment for Mueller.
So your point is this is unadmissible because it's based on a fraud?
Exactly, and so now the whole thing is Mueller was, I think, rushed by the Hillary people
saying we've got to change the news cycle so you better indict somebody and you better
do it now.
I don't think they were ready to indict a man of force.
To agree with Tim Kennedy, the swamp has now really stuck its arm in the wood shiver.
Yes, absolutely, and they're now reacting from a scared and frightened position because
they know that they don't change the news cycle.
Now, the other thing that happened this afternoon was really important is that Podesta, Tony
Podesta stepped down from his firm and remember we were the first to report that Tony Podesta
was working for the same group in Ukraine that Maniford was working for, and right after
we wrote that report last week or a week before, Mueller announced suddenly he was investigating
Podesta.
That's right, and now, again, the Podesta brother has pulled out and he's a front for
John Podesta.
This is a big deal.
Yeah, it's a huge deal, and it shows the ultimate corruption of the FBI, the determination
to go on this witch hunt, because basically there's no tie between these so-called problems
that maybe Mueller had with taking money and wire transfers and how he handled it, although
I suspect Maniford had very good legal counsel when he did all of that, and I'm going to
be very interested.
Well, I mean, I've read the documents.
I'm no foreign elections lawyer, but he's operating in the good graces of U.S. government.
He's paying for the whole campaign operation.
He sets up companies there and does it.
It looks like what everybody else does.
It's obviously he knows he's under scrutiny.
Well, you know, so far, it's being presented by the mainstream media, you know, like they
found the hatchet that committed the murder in the bed with the killer, and it's got blood
all over it.
Well, that's why we have trials, because so far, you're just hearing the government's
version.
Well, I mean, number one, criminals wouldn't be transferring money in public ledgers that
were already given to Congress as they admit they swat teamed them just for the aesthetics
for the jury to say, oh, look, swat team right.
And by the way, we don't have nearly as clear records for all the money laundering that
the Clintons were doing.
And I also pointed this out that the Russians were money laundering to Clinton Estah through
this company that was in the Netherlands and shows up in the Panama Papers and through
this Metcom bank.
But let's interview her.
Oh, I'm sorry.
This is her car blubbering half ago.
What does that signify?
Some of the witnesses being murdered.
It's been nonstop.
I jokingly with a TV show that's coming out, I'm going to be doing some really dangerous
jobs.
And I joke that like, maybe I should just go work for the Clintons because nobody dies
more than them.
In fact, do apply.
You didn't want to talk about it, but tell folks about your new show.
You're not just co-hosting on history, you got your own show coming out.
Tell folks.
I'm going to go do the most dangerous jobs in the world and I can see if I can survive
doing them, but it's the bread and butter of being American.
But I think the most...
And that would be working for the Clintons.
That would be because...
Not the bread and butter of being Americans.
Because if you're...
No, no.
Working for the Clintons would be the most dangerous.
They kill everybody.
I cannot count on hands, feet, your hands, my feet on any of these papers, the number
of people they've had executed and every time there has been a leak or an opportunity for
somebody to reveal something about the Clintons, they die.
And let me ask you both this question because I mean this.
He calls me dark heart, evil, all this stuff.
Why am I still alive?
Because we're in the light, or...?
Yeah, man, it is...
You're actually a hard guy to reach.
You're a hard guy to...
You've said so much.
It's not the threat of doing it.
You're already doing it.
And if you died, if they came and killed you, if your car blew up, it would be a pretty
difficult thing to not tie that back to the people that want to...
That's what I've been told is it highlights everything I've done, too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So instead, I just want to assassinate our names.
Yeah, the character attacks is the best way to get...
All right, Dr. Corsi, we've got Owen Shroyer in an hour coming up.
Jack was so big, great patriot.
He's gonna be hosting next time, but please get on that show.
Tell us more about what's coming up and what's unfolding because I know you're right at the
tip of the spear on this whole investigation.
But let me ask you briefly when we come back, how is it going for them?
Because I don't want to be too positive.
But it seems even in mainstream news, even you've even got Dershowitz and you've even
got CNN reporters and people, you've got Panetta, former Heather CIA, saying, this looks criminal
what Hillary did.
What does that mean?
Are the rats leaving the singing ship?
Is this too late for Mueller?
Stay with us.
We're not just going to have to end the next week, the BrainForce Plus special 50% off.
I'm gonna have to end even sooner our caveman, ultimate paleo bone broth, turmeric chaga
mushroom, bee pollen, and more.
Concentrate.
You talk about next level meal replacement, next level compared to whey, and it's great
to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible.
My son is growing like a weed using it, it's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible.
It is amazing.
In FullWarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand
the stakes are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves, so don't thank me for what I'm doing, I want to thank
you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Bologna Labe T-shirt, you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear again.
Visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the Info War.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Used for face and body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the
day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used, and
we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
A truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products
to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Start listening to the Alex Jones show.
A little bird told me the name of the new show, Tim Kennedy.
Defending the Republic from enemies, born and domestic, it's Alex Jones.
All right, I've been pressuring Tim Kennedy.
He's about to go shoot it.
Maybe the last time I get to shake this guy's hand, you were telling me during the break
what you're going to be doing, and from all your green beret operations and other secret
things you've done, this sounds, and the UFC sounds easy compared to this.
Good luck, buddy.
We're going to be praying for you.
You didn't want to talk about it, but tell folks just briefly before we finish up with
you and Dr. Corsi, what's going to happen on hazard pay?
I love America, and Americans are the greatest men and women on the planet, and we do some
pretty amazing jobs.
I'm going to go and do those jobs.
I'm going to do the jobs that are integrated and interwoven in the fabric of our society
that people don't even think about.
The definition of rugged individualism?
That's right.
Individual responsibility.
We forge our existence out of the forest, finding Indians, French, and then later the
British to make America great.
Then we kind of lost that.
Well, I'm going to revisit it, and I'm going to show just exactly how amazing Americans
are and the jobs they do.
Do you have my snake feet?
Some of the jobs, well, I'll go deep sea diving and tech, try mixed stuff, and weld some oil
pipes.
I might jump out of some airplanes into fires to make fire breaks, flying some experimental
jets that people take for granted that you just get on a plane and flying from LA to
San Francisco or to New York, that somebody had to build that.
So you're going to Chuck Yeager it, you're going to do some even wilder stuff like disarm
bombs.
Yeah, yeah.
You're signing some major waivers for this.
Yeah, I am.
Well, if people stopped trying to blow up Americans, we wouldn't have to have EOD guys,
but that's just been a common thread.
Well, when is the schedule to air?
It's fast.
It'll be end of January.
We'll be the first episode of Hazard Pay.
Hazard Pay, first look, buddy, you are awesome.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for coming in to give us that big first look at season three of Hunting Hitler.
My pleasure.
All right.
Thank you, sir.
Stay right there.
We're over in three minutes.
Dr. Corsi, closing comments.
You're going to be on coming up during war room today with Owen Stroyer, but big breaking
news.
Well, I think that this is just the beginning.
The Democrats are in panic because the Manafort indictment does not include any charges of
collusion.
It includes some financial issues that deal with 2004, 2006 Manafort, I'm sure, can explain
how he handled those transactions, I'm sure a lot of legal help.
But there's no allegations whatsoever that Manafort colluded with the Russians or the
Trump did, whereas with Hillary, with this dossier, with the foundation, with the uranium,
with pay that's gone on money laundering to Podesta and to Hillary, collusion is all over
the board with the Democrats.
They obviously colluded with the Russians, lied about it and covered it up.
That's what's coming to fore.
I'll be very surprised if Mueller's around to actually prosecute Manafort.
I wouldn't be surprised if the entire case gets dropped.
So instead of a nothing burger, we have a new term, a Mueller burger.
Yes, that's right.
It's a Mueller burger.
It was supposed to be a Russian collusion, and Manafort didn't properly account for
certain things 10 years ago, and I'm sure he had excellent expert advice, and I want
to hear his lawyers explain why he did it because it's out if there's any crime there
at all.
What happened to the whole Constitution bit where you were innocent until proven guilty?
It seems like at every opportunity, we were trying to find a way to destroy the Constitution
where we have an indictment.
That does not mean that this man is guilty.
That means that charges have been brought.
But we're just throwing-
Well, this is also Mueller's technique.
Mueller, Comey, I've been pointing it out in this case of Billy Walters, I'm gonna be
writing more about this.
We have proof that this corrupt Department of Justice tries to win their cases in the
press.
We have a case of this on Gambler who is in prison right now from insider trading, and
for four years systematically, the FBI leaked-
They leaked him from the press.
...the New York Times Wall Street Journal.
Well, this is their Waterloo.
America's awake, so nothing they do is going to turn around.
Thank you, Dr. Corsi.
Coming up is Jack Pyssobik, hosting, and then the War Room.
Coming up with Owen Schroyer, and Dr. Corsi will be there as well.
Tim Kennedy, thanks for coming in with the exclusive.
Wow, amazing.
Can't wait to see the third season of Hunting Hitler and more.
I'm Alan Jones.
This is the house you built.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best
selling product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle, and we're now purchasing so much of
it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able
to get it for less, so I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off, and I thought I could
offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is, a whole bunch
of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you, and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com, or simply call toll-free, triple-eight-two-five-three-three-one-three-nine.
The Heart of the Resistance, it's Alex Jones.
Jack Posovic coming to you live from here in Washington, D.C.
I am situated very close to the swamp itself, where today is a very, very swampy day for
the United States, and a very swampy day where the swamp is trying very hard to smear President
Trump, to drag him down into it, but we're not going to let it happen.
We're not going to let anything stop this movement, stop our president, and stop the
reawakening of liberty and actual democracy and justice in this country that has been
sweeping the nation since the president's election almost exactly one year ago.
What we know today is that charges were filed against Paul Manafort and his deputy Rick
Gates.
He just broke those charges yesterday and actually on Saturday, even, but of course
the mainstream media will not give him credit for this group, even though he broke out specifically
the names of who would be charged today.
First to do so, but of course never given the credit from the mainstream media.
We are also hearing indications that charges will be filed against other people associated
either with the Trump campaign, such as General Flynn.
There's a rumor going around about that, but I would classify it very much as a rumor
before anything takes place, as well as charges potentially against the Podesta group who Paul
Manafort himself worked for while working with Ukraine.
And now I want to also break down a little bit something about these charges on Paul
Manafort because you see, the left has spent the last, I don't know, year screaming Russia,
Russia, Russia, Russia at us.
However, if you go through and read the actual indictment, and I've read all 31 pages of
it, 12 counts, he played not guilty.
If you go and look at a map or read anywhere in the indictment, none of it has to do with
Russia.
The entire 12 counts have to do with either Ukraine or condos and different real estate
properties that he has in different parts of the United States, New York, Florida, Virginia.
So I don't know if CNN has ever seen, I don't know, a map or paid attention into what's
going on in foreign policy for the last generation or so, but Ukraine is not part of Russia.
And I've actually made a new geography guide for CNN that I'd like to put up for them so
we can all go and double check.
There's Russia, you can see Moscow, and then there just to the next part of it is not Russia.
That is Ukraine.
So CNN really has a lot of questions to answer for themselves because they told us that all
of this was about Russia.
In fact, Mueller's mandate, his purview, is only to look into Trump connections with the
Russian state and whether or not there was collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.
That is why this investigation was brought up.
That is why Mueller was hired.
That is the specific purview of his investigation as handed to him by Rod Rosenstein, the deputy
attorney general.
I'm going to be breaking down a little bit about that here.
But why was it then that the charges were brought dealing with Ukraine and yet nothing
to do with Russia?
And now they're going to try to paint it over by saying, oh, well, there were people in
the Ukraine that were secretly working for Russia, so you see it all leads back to Russia.
But again, the charges have nothing to do specifically with Russia.
So that is what we're left with today, this fiction, this fable, the Russian collusion
delusion as Roger Stone, a good colleague and friend of ours, who was recently shut
down by Twitter, likes to say, because that is what it's been all along.
There was no Russian collusion between President Trump, his campaign, and the Russian state.
There was no collusion between Trump and Russian intelligence.
There was no collusion between Trump and Vladimir Putin.
What we've seen again and again as laid out by this investigation and other independent
investigations is that any collusion, if it took place, was between the Obama administration
and Hillary Clinton and her organizations and her personal swamp in which she inhabits.
We know she is the swamp creature of swamp Clinton.
That is the one with Russian ties and $145 million in rubles floating around in the Clinton
Foundation with another half million going to Bill Clinton around the sale of Uranium
1.
This is, and I know this smacks of whataboutism, so I'm sure people are going to be sitting
at home and saying, well, Jack, this is just whataboutism.
The charges are on Mueller.
The charges are on Mueller.
Okay, right.
But again, the charges from Mueller on Manafort were about Ukraine.
They don't mention Russia.
What instead, the thing that no one seems to be looking into today and the entire mainstream
media is bereft of is any investigation into the Clinton's organization and efforts with
the Russian state, the Clinton's organization to fund the dossier, this dossier, which was
used, we're learning more and more now by the FBI, by James Comey and others there to
open a wiretapping investigation of not only Paul Manafort, but others within the Trump
campaign, as Trump famously tweeted out back in March, I've just learned that my wires
were being tapped in Trump Tower.
This is what I've told, now I've talked to a lot of sources here in Washington, D.C.,
and New York, and other places about this situation.
And there's a lot of things to break down.
Why were these charges filed today?
Why do they seem, and to anyone, any legal expert who's looked at this, they're saying
two things.
They're saying, look, number one, this doesn't match the narrative at all.
Of what the left and what the mainstream media has been saying all year about Russian collusion.
It does not match that.
It matches not acknowledging certain payments for work done in Ukraine, which was years
and years prior to the Trump campaign and tax documents filed for certain real estate
charges.
So tax charges for real estate, again, does not fit the narrative of collusion with Russia.
Plus, someone, can someone please explain to me, first of all, what part of Russia is
Ukraine in?
And can they also explain to me what part of Paul Manafort's condos have to do with
Russia helping Trump win the election?
I'm not really sure what the connection is there.
I know one of the condos was in Manhattan, and I'm fairly certain that Manhattan, even
though Trump is from there, even though he's from there, they did not vote for him in any
meaningful way.
So these are a lot of the questions that we're gonna break down today.
A lot of the questions that we have.
But really, what seems to be the situation is that these charges and the bringing forward
of these charges, the making public of it, was brought early in the timetable because
of the massive and damning revelations that the FBI had the uranium one deal under investigation
all throughout the Obama administration.
They knew what Clinton was up to.
They know that the FBI informant who is due to testify in front of the Senate Judiciary
Committee very soon is going to have damning testimony, which will likely bring up the
names of Robert Mueller, former FBI director at the time, and Rob Rosenstein, who was the
US attorney for Maryland at the time that looked into so much of this because one of
the firms was in Maryland.
So you're seeing how a lot of these players in the DOJ and FBI are tied very intimately
to the uranium one deal and then suddenly there's this massive leak from the Mueller
team to CNN on Friday night, right at the same time that the New York Times piece comes
out on the Russian dossier being funded by Hillary and never Trump or Paul Singer.
Now we're also seeing a leak to CNN specifically of charges to be brought on Monday, trying
to suck up all the air in the room, trying to suck up the entire conversation, change
the conversation away from ties to Mueller and his financial ties that we were also learning
about that he has with Russia through various hedge funds and companies that he invested
in.
And we're also seeing leaks from the Mueller team to so many people.
From what I've heard from my sources is that Mueller's team was blabbing all over DC this
entire weekend trying to do everything they could to prime the pump for this morning's
charges with any legal advisor has looked into and said, this is really light stuff.
This is basic tax issues.
This is filing stuff.
This has nothing to do with electioneering.
It has nothing to do with collusion.
They're actually not sure why the charges were brought so early.
So it seems in the analysis of many that these charges were ramped up.
The timetable was brought forward in an effort to change the headlines.
Well, we're not going to change the headlines here on the show today.
We're not going to cut it down.
We are going to continue to break this down for the rest of the hour.
We're going to get into a few more sources.
I want to talk about Rob Rosenstein's role in all of this, Jim Comey's role in all of
this.
And we're going to explain just why the charges were brought today and we're going to explain
not only that, but what we can do about it.
Let's stick with it here, we'll be right back on Infowars Big Fourth Hour, hosted by myself,
Jack Pasovic.
Hello, Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother, get virtualshield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at virtualshield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Fully cooked, ready-to-eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center-cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA PAC technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready-to-eat right from the PAC bacon, or warm and served.
Life-saving, ready-to-eat bacon.
10-year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size, pour incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com, or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists, get back to nature, expand your horizons with
the highest quality, most versatile, unique slingshots and slingbos on the market at slingbo.com.
Slingbo products are compact and models start from just 1798.
They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle.
Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbo, a new frontier in
archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool.
Feel the thrill, only at slingbo.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and
overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
Survival Warslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver
designed to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charged your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the information war it's Alex Jones.
Jack Posovic coming in live today.
Fourth hour.
Massive fourth hour here on what is going to go down for the left as a massive failure
of a day.
I really, I really think because today they did not get what they wanted.
Today they were told was going to be the day that Donald Trump would be taken down that
impeachment would be in the wind.
That everybody would be thinking that the Trump election would be negated and relegated
to a footnote of history.
That somehow some way they could change reality and allow Hillary Clinton to win.
You actually go on Twitter at the sometimes and it's kind of creepy but they'll actually
go and put tweets up talking about these fantasies they have about Hillary Clinton being appointed
president by some arcane policy process and it takes them like hundreds of lines of some
kind of code they're putting together to make it that so that she would become president
to all the hoops they would have to jump through legally.
It just goes to show you how much these people don't live in reality, don't live in the real
world.
Well folks, we're trying to explain to you what's happening here in reality but in order
to do that, we have to explain this false reality that CNN and others would try to have
you believe.
Now one very specific actor that I'd like to discuss here in this segment is Rod Rosenstein.
He's currently the deputy attorney general under Jeff Sessions.
Prior to that, he was the US attorney for Maryland.
He's actually one of the United States' longest serving US attorneys.
So very, very respected, a lot of credibility in terms of that legal background and he was
considered as being extremely popular when he went through his confirmation hearings
because he was able to get Republicans and Democrats both on his side.
But what it turns out is he's someone who's been working very closely with Mueller all
along.
Now to take people back on this, Rosenstein is the one who wrote the letter that specifically
allowed for President Trump to fire Jim Comey.
He wrote out the entire memo that laid out the specific failures of Comey with the Clinton
email investigation and other email investigations he was part of.
And all of this is explaining the backstory of how we got to today and the Manafort charges,
how these Manafort charges came to be and where they come from.
So Rosenstein writes this memo and basically supports the idea of Trump firing Comey.
Sessions at this point has already recused himself of any involvement in a Russia investigation.
And so Sessions decides that he thinks that because Rosenstein is an experienced and credible
prosecutor that it should be no problem for Rosenstein himself to overview any investigation
into these matters because Sessions, as we know, played a part in the Trump campaign.
And so it would be considered improper for him to be investigating his own campaign,
right?
And a campaign that he played a part of.
So he steps down, recuses himself, allows Rosenstein to take over the investigation.
However, Rosenstein seemingly in a preplanned move decides to not investigate the matter
himself or run it himself, he then took the bold and unprecedented step of naming a special
prosecutor, the special prosecutor by the name of Robert Mueller.
Robert Mueller, who was prior to that, someone who worked very closely with Rosenstein while
in the US Attorney's Office there in Maryland and someone who directly gave overpower of
the FBI to James Comey.
So Mueller is the one who is basically above the entire fray and all of this.
And he was working with the Iranian one, had that in under investigation, most likely knew
in some form of the Russian dossier due to his ties with Jim Comey, his very close friendship
that's been described as the two of them work together, move their way up in the ranks through
the FBI with each other.
So it makes no mistake that that is why Mueller himself was named the special prosecutor here.
Normally when a special prosecutor is named, you pick someone who has no connection to
politics, has no connection to anything in either campaign, either party, someone who
can be seen as neutral.
Well now we found that Mueller very specifically was not chosen because of impartiality or
neutrality, he was chosen because he would do the dirty lifting for Rosenstein and for
the deep state.
Mueller of course, they're now charging men for with conspiracy, they're charging gates
with conspiracy.
So who are the actual conspiracy theorists when it comes down to it?
Now Mueller is claiming that there were conspiracy and basically this is a very salacious word
that's been used as a very sensational word.
What it comes down to is tax documents that were filed in many ways, complying with different
forms of disclosure statements for LLCs.
And a lot of this, we could go into that, but honestly, it's quite an in-depth discussion
and I'm not a tax scholar by any means.
But what I've talked to with my legal sources is that a lot of what Manafort did on the
tax front, while it does seem complicated, is not necessarily illegal.
And that his lawyers remain confident with their plea of not guilty today.
That they will not be eventually convicted of this because they believe that it was trumped
up charges, to pardon the phrase.
But actually being done specifically to comply with US laws, simply using the laws that were
passed by different Congresses, passed signed by different presidents, all laws that were
available to them.
Manafort actually said months ago when a lot of this started to come up, the Intercept
had an article on this back in February, and one of the things Manafort said was, I hate
to disappoint the Russia conspiracy theorists, but this is simply how real estate is done
in New York City.
Everybody does this, it's business as usual.
So if you don't like it, change the laws.
But don't say that I did something wrong just because it's different than from how most
people do it.
That being said, Rosenstein, Rosenstein knew that all of this was out.
Rosenstein knew that this situation was going out there.
To call it money laundering, again, the Intercept's article, it's a great article, it details
all this stuff.
A lot of this was known.
It was known the day that he signed on with the Trump campaign.
It was known that all throughout the campaign, he then left the campaign after getting the
delegates.
Remember, Paul Manafort was not involved with the Trump campaign at the start.
He was not involved with the Trump campaign back in 2015.
He was only involved with the Trump campaign during the RNC and a little bit thereafter.
He actually was fired from the Trump campaign after more details about his Ukrainian connections
came out.
So this is the specific reason that Donald Trump fired him from the campaign.
So for all these Democrats and everyone on the left who wants to say that Manafort is
gonna bring down Trump and all this stuff is gonna bring down Trump, well, actually,
all of this stuff is going back to 2012, 2013, when if you actually look at what was going
on, he was working not only for Yanukovych over in Ukraine, but was also working with
the Podesta Group and Uranium One.
So now we're hearing that the charges and more investigations that might be coming out
could actually have to do with Tony Podesta, Tony Podesta who just stepped down as the
head of the Podesta Group today while under this investigation.
So let's keep an eye on this whole situation because the idea that Trump is going somewhere
in all of this, I think is a bridge too far to say the least at this point.
Tony Podesta now in the crosshairs of all of this Democrat, Clinton supporter, Tony Podesta.
Stick with it right here because we are cutting through the narrative.
We are breaking this all down.
The Empire is on the run.
Power for Info Wars.
I'm Jack Posovic, your host today.
Stick here.
Hello, Mr. Anderson, the NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news
sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother?
Get VirtuaShield.com, the world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at VirtuaShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, VirtuaShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Hey, Daniel Brieman, why new manna, storeable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong, independent families to endure what's ahead.
And we take this charge seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today.
Call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775, online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com, www.powerprepper.com.
You deserve a deep rest whole sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
It packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
We're not just going to have to end the next week.
The BrainForce Plus special 50% off, I'm going to have to end even sooner our caveman, ultimate
paleo bone broth, turmeric, chaga mushroom, bee pollen and more.
Concentrate, you talk about next level meal replacement.
Next level compared to whey, and it's great to mix with whey and then make shakes.
It's incredible.
My son is growing like a weed using it, it's bigger than I am already, 15 incredible.
It is amazing.
InfoWarsLife.com, 50% off caveman, but only a few days left, it's about to end.
And folks, the globalists hate it when you do this.
We're the tip of the spear because we're fearless, we're bold, because we understand the stakes
are too high.
The globalists win, we're all slaves, so don't thank me for what I'm doing, I want to thank
you.
We're all in this together.
And when you get the great Molan Lobby t-shirts, you get the great books and videos, you're
fighting the tip of the spear again.
Visit infowarstore.com today and commit to helping the info war.
This week the FBI released over 1,500 heavily redacted documents concerning the Sandy Hook
investigation.
In many cases, entire pages are redacted, but unredacted portions of the Sandy Hook documents
continue to support the narrative.
20-year-old shooter Adam Lanza was a lonely, tech-savvy, high school dropout and experienced
shooter with an interest in weapons, a functioning autistic with a personality disorder, and
a recluse who liked to play video games all day.
But there's one key update on page 41, a source told agents that Lanza, while in the ninth
grade, was visited at his home by either CIA or FBI agents after hacking a government computer
system.
The source said authorities told Nancy Lanza that if her son was that smart, he could have
a job with them someday.
Infowars has the documents, read them right now, they're posted in their entirety at the
article.
The FBI releases heavily redacted Sandy Hook investigation docs, Leigh Ann McAdoo, Infowars.com.
The Alex Jones show today on Infowars breaking down everything that's going on in Washington
D.C., breaking down so many of these scandals upon scandals that are now being uncovered
through the Department of Justice scandals regarding not our president, not anything
to do with our movement, our pro-America movement, but actually to do with the past administration
and scandals that had to do with the past of how Washington D.C., look, we knew.
We knew Washington D.C. was a swamp.
President Trump laid it out.
He laid it out and said it's time to drain the swamp.
So all we're doing now is finding out just how much of a swamp it is.
Is it really shocking to anybody that a D.C. lobbyist was working with Ukrainian officials,
was working with other foreign officials?
This doesn't make any difference to anything that our president said on the campaign trail,
but we can't do this by ourselves, folks.
We need your help.
We need your support, and that's why I want to direct you to InfowarsStore.com.
It is so important and imperative for you to go to there and help us out.
Help support the Info War. There are so many specials on sale this week.
Now just as we move into the later weeks, the later winter season this year of 2017,
winter sun is now 50% off.
Winter sun, D3, the temperatures, they are dropping low, but of course the prices are
now also dropping as well, 50% off down to 1747.
We've seen Alex put this one on sale in the past, so he's dropping it out because he knows
that people get these products seasonally, and winter sun is a seasonal product.
It's your best source of vitamin D3, and if you're going to go in those other products
that you might use only might give you the D2.
This one actually goes so far as to give pure vitamin D3.
So it's promoting bones, it's boosting your immune system.
This is exactly what you need as we get into those winter months.
When you're getting out of bed early in the morning, you're feeling it, you're feeling
it.
People always say, I feel the cold in my bones, right?
That is exactly what winter sun vitamin D goes to help you with.
As the cold is creeping in, these gives the vitamins and everything directly to your bones,
to your health for what exactly you need.
And again, it's now been extended.
The Brain Force special, the Super Charge special, so they've extended it.
I know we talked about this last week, but it's been expanded, it's been expanded into
this week.
So the Brain Force Plus Super Charge special, 50%, another 50% off all the way down to 1996.
Brain Force, as you know, one of the highest rated and best selling Infowars Life formulas
that it has been on the market since they've had it out.
Over 5,000 reviews, almost a 5.0 rating, it's 4.6, probably one of the highest rated.
And that's over 5,000 reviews.
And those are verified reviews that is not just people, trolls getting in there.
Those are people that have actually bought the product and actually used it.
So if that's something that you guys are interested in, if that's something that you want to promote
your own mental health, your clarity, your energy to get you going, to get you motivated
to go about your day, to actually read some of these crazy headlines, to actually read
some of these headlines and laugh, Brain Force is the way to go about it.
So I read some of these headlines and laugh, but I also do read some headlines and weep.
So the one headline today that someone actually passed me, so we read about Kevin Spacey.
And Kevin Spacey's, these accusations and then his, of course, admissions about unwanted
sexual advances on a 14-year-old.
From Kevin Spacey, Kevin Spacey lauded as a man of the left and now has apologized.
So he's simply admitted that this is true.
He's admitted that sexual assault did take place, this alleged misconduct.
He's apologized for it.
And this same misconduct, of course, he is now trying to paint it into a situation where
he's come out and said, well, today he's decided to also come out as a homosexual.
So he's trying to get ahead of those headlines, accusing him of pedophilia, accusing him of
unwanted sexual assault of a 14-year-old and he's saying, well, I'm homosexual.
Actually, there's a lot of people in DC, a lot of people in the LGBT community that
don't want to hear that.
They said, don't confuse or conflate even Zachary Kinto, another Hollywood actor, said,
excuse me.
Just because someone's LGBT, that doesn't mean they're a pedophile.
So why would you conflate the two?
Why would you try to spin this as a way of breaking away from what you're done?
Because he's trying to save his career at this point.
He's trying to save his own career prospects, his own legacy as the entire Hollywood spins
around the entire drain as the PETA would scandal extremely, extremely goes forward.
And one thing that I brought up earlier today that we found out is that, yes, Kevin Spacey
and Bill Clinton flew together on the Lolita Express to Jeffrey Epstein's Island down there
in the Caribbean that they not only flew on the plane at separate times, but also flew
the plane together.
Kevin Spacey and Bill Clinton, their friendship goes back many, many years.
This is something that people know all about that it has been very much in the open.
These charges about Jeffrey Epstein, these accusations, and he has been convicted of
this.
Keep in mind, these are not just accusations of Jeffrey Epstein.
This has been proven.
So now Kevin Spacey, and we broke this story many months ago, years ago, when the Lolita
Express logs came out, when everybody knew this was happening, people knew what was going
on.
People said Kevin Spacey is there flying on the same plane with Bill Clinton.
Why is nobody investigating this?
Why is nobody bringing this out?
Because Spacey was seen as one of the heads of Hollywood.
And then, of course, they make a movie about Spacey being the president, essentially being
the leader of the United States in real life, which as a lot of people basically see as
they watch the TV show House of Cards, well, now we're finding out how their House of Cards
is crumbling because of the ties of Kevin Spacey to Bill Clinton, his ties to Washington
elitist groups now accused of pedophilia.
And one piece that I wanted to bring up as well, Brian Singer.
Brian Singer, he's a director in Hollywood.
He was involved with the X-Men movies.
He was involved in so much of this, and this is an article I found from the Hollywood
Reporter 2014 that you dig down in this.
His accuser, very, very big when this came out, he was accusing Brian Singer of taking
him to adult parties, a 14-year-old of raping him, of having his unwanted sexual assault
just like with Kevin Spacey.
If you dig down into this article, it actually shows that his accuser, Egan, sent certified
return receipt letters to none other than Robert Mueller at the FBI building, FBI's J. Edgar
Hevree building, Washington, D.C., then yet they were completely ignored.
So Robert Mueller, all the way back 2014, or prior to then, at least we found out in
2014, April 21st of the news conference, that Robert Mueller knew about Pito Gate, that
Robert Mueller, the FBI director, knew what was going on.
He was alerted to what was going on.
Certified letters sent directly to Robert Mueller, and yet nothing was done.
And yet nothing, no charges were brought.
It sounds like no investigation was actually done.
These accusations went against Kevin Spacey.
They went against Bill Clinton, and yet no investigation, no one looking into this.
People put out these apologies.
They come up with these PR games to say, well, I'm actually this, I'm actually that.
There's a new documentary that's coming out, talking about the Hollywood pedophile ring
that preyed on child actors, Link to Brian Singer and others.
This huge documentary that came out all the way back in 2014, Michael Egan specifically
was the one who talked about this.
Robert Mueller didn't look into that.
He'll look into charges on anyone connected to Trump.
He'll look into, but he won't watch Open Secret.
He won't tell you what's going on there.
Instead, when Robert Mueller was informed of this situation, he didn't even respond.
He didn't even respond, and did everything he could potentially to make it seem like
it wasn't a big deal.
Well, we know it's a big deal, and we know that the truth is now finally coming out the
ties between what is going on here, Open Secret, Robert Mueller, Brian Singer, Kevin Spacey.
These accusations must be investigated, and I'm going to bring that up in the final segment
here in hour four to explain how you at home can help to call for an investigation into
the activities of Robert Mueller.
If you're a Jack Vesovic, hour four coming up.
It's a good deal at $39, it's $19.96 at infowarslife.com, or simply call toll free,
call toll free at infowarslife.com, or simply call toll free at infowarslife.com, or simply
harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA
made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using EmRick's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new EmRick's Essentials line of organic
products.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
InfoWarslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Vitamin mineral fusion.
Visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemister.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix.
At infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals
and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield x2, super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and resecured you're finding the tip of the
spear in the info war.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption.
This is Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war.
Jack Pacific coming in live here, info wars big fourth hour.
I wanted to direct you guys before we break down some of this stuff or direct you guys
very importantly go to infowarstore.com support our efforts.
Support our efforts to combat the fake news from CNN combat our efforts the fake news
and misleading articles and tweets and everything else from fake news and Jake Tapper and all
these places go and support the store go support what we're doing support our fight.
There's so much you can do you go over to infowarstore.com so many great products on
there.
It's a win-win situation because you can support the info war and you can also support your
own health you can also support and all these these have all been checked all of these products
have been dug into investigated by the mainstream media by independent labs by everyone under
the sun and they all agree that these all do the exact things that they claim they make
and actually are better than many other leading products on the market.
That's why infowarstore.com you know you can trust it you know you can go with these products
you can get them there's so much on there one thing specifically put it in there one
last chance that that that Alex has given a to buy secret 12 at 40% off they're almost
at the very end almost at the end of the stock I actually when they sent me this the file
today to they said guys we still doing the secret 12 we're still doing the sale and
secret 12 I thought that was you know I thought that was two weeks ago and they said you know
we've just got a little bit extra so they extended out they're going to do a little
bit more it's just 2397 so extended out it's only until the end of this week I'm told that
they're going to be doing this this contains so many other bio bioactive characteristics
for people it's got the vitamin B12 over 3000 reviews 97% these are verified reviews
not the kind not the kind that that people when the trolls go on Amazon put everything
one percent no these are actual people who have purchased the product who then responded
to it and said 97% would recommend this to a friend 4.8 rating of 3000 reviews when people
try the secret 12 with that vitamin vitamin B12 supplement there are so many people that
want to recommend it that so many people that enjoy it for their own health consciousness
it's going to be in sale just until the end of this week so just going in past Halloween
going into the first of November 40% off if you guys want that super flu excuse me the
vitamin B12 get the super blue two are there but check out that vitamin B12 there's so
much good stuff now with today's new cycle with all that's been going on in Washington
DC these charges and the left screaming Trump Trump Trump Trump Trump but you'll actually
notice that none of the charges had anything to do with Donald Trump today there's that
that sort of flyaway charge about George Papadopoulos that were an arrest actually took place back
in January but the news was held till today to make it seem like there was some conflation
right so he this guy Papadopoulos was arrested in jet in July excuse me July but the news
was held today and then leaked to make it appear that there was a connection between
himself and the charges being brought against Manafort today Jake Tapper and CNN actually
made a big mistake about this Jake Tapper posted an image of Paul Manafort and said
ex-Trump official pleads guilty today when that actually wasn't the case I called him
out on it and CNN went went back so far as to actually change the article using old Pravda
tactics of admitting that they intentionally misled people because originally he put it
about Matt he put up an article about Manafort and said this is Jake Tapper's own Twitter
but in screenshots last forever folks he said Manafort plead guilty right is and that's
what it looks like and then CNN went back because I called attention to it they went
back and changed it to a picture of Papadopoulos he claims that he had no idea that that's what
was going on and Jake actually admitted that to the mistake himself he admitted that it
was misleading I don't understand why he wouldn't take the tweet down he actually had CNN go
to the trouble of changing it because we called them out we called them out on their fake news
and their misinformation they're deliberate deliberate manipulation of these headlines
that are being pushed out by Mueller and keep in mind this is what Mueller wanted Mueller
wanted you to think that it was Manafort that was pleading guilty or that the Papadopoulos
thing had anything to do with Paul Manafort there has been no evidence whatsoever linking
Papadopoulos to Manafort no indication of emails or discussions between the two of them
but it doesn't matter because CNN is trying to connect them and make you think that it's
connected that's why the news was put out on the same day so we've caught them being very
sloppy and lazy with their manipulation of the news we've caught them being very sloppy
I've got them to actually change what they've written up what they'd written up and it just
goes to show you that this is the length that CNN and the establishment will go to conflate
these things so people get the same to be all the time and say Jack what can we do what
can I do what can I do as a single person who loves his country who wants to see his
country succeed who wants this place I'm getting married on Sunday folks I'm getting married
in literally six days girl of my dreams we're getting married and I want to live in a country
where we're safe from this kind of crap as a country that is safe and strong borders we
don't have to worry about terrorism where we don't have to worry about unvetted immigrants
coming in and refugees we I want my family to be raised in a country where I don't have
to worry about these threats the family that I'm starting this Sunday back up in Philadelphia
where I'm from and so that's why I agree that with Senator Chuck Brasley and I read so many
on the Senate Judiciary Committee that we do need a prosecutor we do need a special investigator
for Paul Matt or excuse me a special investigator for Robert Mueller that his ties to the Iranian
one deal need to be brought out was the dossier connected to the Iranian one stuff that entire
situation the amount of money the amount of corruption the fact that it had to deal with
us national security assets in terms of our uranium folks uranium which is used number
one to power the United States we get about a fifth of our energy from uranium so the
fact that we're selling off 20% of it to the Russians just right there it's in our strategic
disinterest to do that why would we take something that was such a strong asset for us and sell
it only to buy it back in terms of our own energy purposes doesn't that seem kind of
stupid why would somebody do that if they had the United States best interest at heart
why would we sell it to a foreign power and then buy it back from them for an energy and
secondly of course the obvious that uranium has much more impactful military capabilities
to be used in a nuclear weapon Russia a country that does support rogue regimes now we need
to call our senators we need to call our representatives we need to let them know and let them know
immediately that a special prosecutor into the uranium one situation must and I repeat
this must be appointed either that or Jeff sessions himself needs to start an investigation
of Jeff sessions can't do it well maybe then we then maybe we can find an attorney general
who can because this entire situation it stinks to high heaven it ties into Mueller it ties
into Rosenstein it ties into Obama it ties into Clinton honestly it sounds like everybody
was getting a piece off of this deal everyone was colluding on this deal other than Donald
J Trump because this way as we know folks is how the swamp works the swamp finds literal
pieces of our country actual right land right land in the United States and is selling it
off to the highest bidder the highest bidder in that at this point happened to be a man
by the name of Vladimir Putin the head of the Russian state so that is why that is gonna
I would also urge people to tweet and if you use Twitter go to the at White House account
and tweet at that account tweet to that account because I have heard from my sources that
that is an account that the highest levels of the White House get a report on every day
so the at White House account that's being looked at at the highest levels of the White
House specifically the chief of staff level is taking an eye on this account so if you
want to use Twitter if you're not using the phone call situation tweet at the at White
House account and I guarantee you that it will be seen by the highest levels of our
government it will be seen by the chief of staff it will be seen by the administration
because they specifically look at this at White House account not as many people pay
attention to it because it isn't as prominent as the real Donald Trump account but folks
that's why you listen to info wars because we tell you the information that isn't out
there in the mainstream media we have the sources planted all throughout the US government
throughout the military we have people patriots who come to us and tell us the truth about
what's going on and aren't sure what to do about it because we're fighting a corrupt
state that has been in place that has been pulling the wool over so many people's eyes
we saw that from the time of the JFK files coming out that came out last week we see
that going on today we see that going on with these charges stick around listen to war room
with Owen Troyer Jerome Corsi is coming back I might pop on to war room someday this week
I'm Jack Passovic I'm getting married in six days best time of my life so happy to be here
on info wars hosting the fourth hour stick around we got Owen Troyer coming right back
don't miss not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to
do it why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty
much scares me the most I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and
water and beverages in my system but right now we're dealing with massive parasites which
is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with
all the refugees spreading disease around we have biological warfare going on everywhere
these are all parasites tell us about all the stuff I said there's so many things that
are in it you have the neem in there you have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood
I recommend doing a parasite plans at least twice a year all right well I'm glad we've
got some back in because I'm going back on it today it just came back in yesterday living
defense info wars live.com and folks you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body
period and you support the broadcast info wars live.com thank you doctor group from
the global healing center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product
please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number
one when you choose auto ship before checkout we give you 10% off on your order info wars
store.com number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're
giving you free shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for
years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month just
go to info wars store.com select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know I coined the term 360 win
and with the new auto ship feature in info wars life.com this is a sure win 10% off on
auto ship win win win at info wars life.com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and
all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship you're listening
to the Alex Jones show.
