Trump will never be president, so said the fake news from the front lines of the information war
It's Alex Jones
Ladies and gentlemen, I'm your host Alex Jones
We're in the middle of the 34 hour broadcast, it just started three hours ago
The day of the night and the real news, it's every weekday morning 8am
I'm Alex Jones, this is the info war
I'm gonna be here for the next four hours
And then I'm coming back tonight
8 o'clock, but in between then we've got Leanne McAdoo and Paul Joseph Watson and Owen Troyer and a bunch of other guests
And your phone calls
Something I'm thinking about doing is starting to have Skype calls
Segments every day where people can call in on their Skype and be on air with us live
That way, yes, quite a few interesting things we've got in the works here
Ladies and gentlemen
There's a lot of positive things happening, obviously we're gonna have some cringe worthy compilations of the left saying
Trump will never be president
Madame Hillary
Then they're melt down that night, lots of screaming at the sky
No, that's not true, that's impossible
Search your feelings, you know it to be true
In fact
That's all coming up
But that said, I've got really serious news here
Quite a bit of it, quite frankly
We have a source who got picked up by the FBI last night
I know who the source is
And he's actually been in the news before and has been a prominent member of the military and the intelligence community
And he is a private contractor now with another group
And I could tell he was real calling in the last year or so because of how accurate his information was from our own sources
But then the last few weeks I learned who he was specifically
And the FBI came, picked him up two hours after he was on as a caller
Took him in to a military facility
And he's there
He's even still got his phone, they took it away and downloaded it and took his laptop and home computer
And he's got a lawyer now
Over the information he shed on air
Now obviously folks, I don't violate national security laws
But as a journalist, you've got some special protections and basically are
Ibbots in the interest of the country and if it doesn't endanger critical infrastructure and all this other verbiage
But he specifically got into Las Vegas and who he believes and who the military sources he talks to believe were involved in it
And everything he says matches up with my other sources in research
And then he talked about how there was about to be a big shakeup in Saudi Arabia, which you saw happen
And then he talked about how Yemeni terrorists have been decapitated with what the Saudi king and the US have done the last week
There's a civil war ongoing and about to be a hot war between Iran and Saudi Arabia
Well that's in the news
But just that the word is Yemeni terrorists are getting ready to strike in Europe and the United States as part of this civil war
Within two hours of him saying that the FBI was at his house, had transcription recordings of his last seven or eight phone calls
In the last few months here
He'd already been called in a few weeks ago to the military base to be questioned but he was basically forcibly taken in
He didn't resist it
And I love how I see some commenters on him full wars or commenters over at media matters going
Those claims he has this source, yeah right, just like we claimed the president told us that he was going to release the JFK files
And the next day announced he was
Our sources are real and the media hates it because we're real media and they're fake media
And this is a big deal because the fact that they snatched him up so quick
Trying to claim that he may have violated his national security clearance shows you they do not want him talking and letting you know what's going on
This is all really really serious information. Stay with us
It is amazing we also been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality probiotic
It's 25% off out of the gates back in stock but for a very limited time
So you get the highest quality the very cleanest stuff out there we're really really proud of it DNA force and biome defense
Probiotic now back in stock in full wars life.com when you buy products from globalist it's an act of trading with the enemy
It is an act of war it is an act of standing up when you spread the links the articles and buy products from us
And then we commit rampage against the enemy totally
This program contains language and sequences some viewers may find disturbing
If you don't if you want
If you fail to understand
And the same incredible terror that's menacing me will strike at you
The function of all life is survival
Sleep
Sleep
Sleep
Oh my God
Lock the door
They're coming
Help
They're coming
They're coming
Listen to me
Listen
You're next please
You're next we're in danger
Please listen to me
Something terrible
Please you're next here they are
They're already here
Help
You're next
They're coming
They're coming
Mr. Dunzo
Sleep
The seed is planted
Sleep
Sleep
Terror
Gross
Elizabeth wake up
Get you when you sleep
Sit up
Invasion of the body snatchers
All of a sudden they're growing like parasites
Is it contagious?
Real homies
It looks right at me
You're looking at it as if it was human or not human
Now the classic fear begins to grow
We're being cornered
In a modern masterpiece of science fiction
The barricaded street
Invasion of the body snatchers
The land of the walking dead
Here we are
It is the one year anniversary
Ladies and gentlemen of the massive defeat
Of the globalists and their propaganda armies
And the $3 billion they spent
The $400 million that Trump spent
The American economy turned around
Our sovereignty turned around
The VA getting fixed
70% reduction in illegals coming across the border
And you know how real Trump is by his enemies
The total panicking
The total freaking out
The total insanity
Eight special elections that were highly contested
Have gone for Tea Party, Patriot, Libertarian, Republicans
In New Jersey and Virginia
Both states that Trump lost a year ago today
It went to the Democrats
The media's spinning that
Oh my gosh, it's over for Trump
It's over for the House
It's over for the Senate
It's all being reversed
No
The Democrats have lost
In many areas that they actually won
During the last election
And the fact that they put all their money
Three to one, four to one
Against these Republican candidates
And then won
Is a testament to the fact that
Trump didn't endorse them
And they were neocons
And just like we saw in Alabama
The Libertarian, Conservative, Patriot
Make America Great Again movement
Is not gonna vote for Republican in name only people
We're punishing that political party
For taking it over
There's new polls out
So the Democratic Party
Is the most unpopular in its history
And is the most unpopular institution in America
The Democrats are even more unpopular
Than the mainstream media
Huge
So this is all coming up today
Now, we have a source
Who was formerly in the Army
And in special operations in Florida
And he never gave us any secret info
But I knew he was accurate
Because I have sources in that same group
And sources all the way up to the president
As you know
And to many of his advisors
So I knew what this caller, Zach, had been saying
Was dead on, dead on
Well, I learned a few weeks ago his identity
Looked him up the news
He's a decorated, well-known individual
In intelligence
Going back over a decade
He's now out of the military
He didn't give us anything secret
But he talked about what was public information
That pointed out how to connect the dots
The FBI came and basically arrested him last night
They took him by force, he didn't resist
They said you have no choice
They took his computers, laptop
And took him to a military base
He was given his phone back
Able to call us and call his lawyer
He's asked me not to give out his identity
But the information we're going to be breaking down
Is very, very serious about Yemeni's terror attacks
Imminent in the US, he says
First, here we are a year later
Mainstream media told you Trump would ever be president
Here it is in their face
There's not going to be a president, Donald Trump
That's not going to happen
Donald Trump will not become president
He's not going to be president
He is not, Donald Trump is not going to be president
Of the United States, take it to the bank
I guarantee it
Trump's the president here, make it great
Because the state is already going
I think that man will be president in the United States
Right about the time that space ships come down
He's filled with dinosaurs and red capes
I'm not like Tom
Take it from me
And then of course there's Donald Trump
Donald Trump has been saying
That he will run for president as a Republican
Which is surprising, since I just assumed
He was running as a joke
Donald Trump just last week
He confirmed to the national review
That he is again considering a run in 2016
Do it
Do it
Look at me
Do it
I will personally write you a campaign check
Now on behalf of this country
Which does not want you to be president
But which badly wants you to run
So when you stand and deliver
That state of the union address
In no part of your mind or brain
Can you imagine Donald Trump
Standing up one day and delivering
A state of the union address
Well I can imagine it
In a Saturday night's skip
I continue to believe Mr. Trump
Will not be president
He will never be president at the United States
And we better be ready for the fact
That he may be leading a Republican ticket next
I know you don't believe that
But I want to go on
Okay, here we are
And which Republican candidate
Has the best chance of winning the general election
Of the declared ones right now
Donald Trump
And so, right now, Mr. Trump
To answer your call for political honesty
I just want to say
You're not going to be president, alright?
It's been fun
It's been great
I love you
But, but
Come on, come on buddy
All let's say cow poo poo aside
There is zero chance
We'll be seeing you being sworn in
On the Capitol steps with your hand
On a giant golden Bible
I'll make a prediction note for you
I don't really get into predictions much
But this one I'll go way out on a limb
Donald Trump will never
Ever be president
Of the United States
The Trump should not be in this race
He's an absurdity
He is a travesty
Donald Trump will never be elected
President of the United States
Donald Trump is here today
Going tomorrow, candidate for president
Of the United States
Donald Trump is not going to be president
Of the United States
Of a respectful of the fact that
The people have not voted
He's not going to be president
Of the United States
Let's be clear, Donald Trump will lose the election
He had a really good chance to be different
And really have a chance to change things
But he doesn't do the work, he's lazy
We talk about him every day and we
Continuously bash him
He's not going to be the president, don't worry about it
Exactly
I have to be a wake up call to the Republican party
Thinking that Donald Trump could win New York
The presidential race is over
Can I just cut through
I have one thing to say, one thing only
And that is that this race
Is over
Tomorrow morning, the money will dry up
The Republicans will start to hide
Trump has no place to go
This race, effectively
As of tonight, is no longer
A presidential race
Everything I know about presidential politics
And I've been through five of them
I've never seen one like this
This race is over, you might as well accept it
And the question now is
How do you minimize damage
And the only way you can do that, it seems to me
Is to try to grab hold of some old
Conservative value things
And do what Mondale did in 1984
Which will try to save a few people down ballot
But as far as Donald Trump's concerned
It will never, ever, ever happen
President Obama will go down as perhaps
The worst president in the history
Of the state's exclamation point
At real Donald Trump
At real Donald Trump
At least I will go down
As a president
The answer to being in control
Of your own healthcare is
Freedom from insurance
Become part of a group of self-pay patients
That come together to share
In each other's medical expenses
Individual share amounts begin
At $107 a month
And $347 for families
Choose from three health sharing programs
Holistic treatment may be eligible
For sharing, see guidelines
Discount programs available for dental
Vision and pharmacy
LibertyOnCall.org
This is Dan Pilla. Do you have the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case. Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem. Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website.
DanPilla.com
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor? That's right. Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers. Go to inforstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something. It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire meals. Woo! That's what I'm talking about. And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest Rights is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer. So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at inforstore.com.
You deserve a deep rest whole sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
This will be a day long remember. We've seen the end of the Clintons. We'll soon see the end of the globalists.
Donald J. Trump is now president of the United States.
It's not true. That's impossible.
It's the feelings you know it to be true.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
Move, bitch! Get out of the way!
We pledge allegiance to one flag and that flag is the American flag.
InfoWars helped fuel the rumor that President Obama is an ISIS supporter.
It's been a cozy relationship from the beginning.
This means that Donald Trump will be the 45th president of the United States.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones.
Well, he's not let us down so far. Not on the Second Amendment, not on borders, not on sovereignty, not on taxes, not on regulations.
He's just done everything he said he'd done or been like a bull in a China shop trying to get it done.
He's overperformed and he said, I will not let you down.
And I think we'll be speaking a lot. And he's done everything he said he'd do.
One year anniversary. By the way, we just joined us. This is not satire.
This is a story on infowars.com from Paul Joseph Watson.
They were going to have a Scream at the Sky Fest November 4th, but they canceled that.
They did have their demonstrations and their attacks on police and things, but it kind of fizzled out.
Then the media came out and said, Jones made it up. Nothing happened November 4th.
Revolution fails. Oh, they recycle it and say we made it up.
They never fail. They just say they never even took the field.
But today, I guess we're going to get some new viral videos out of this.
Nationwide anti-Trump temper tantrum takes place today.
They changed the date to the one year anniversary last week.
Liberals will scream helplessly at the sky. That's the name of the event.
Scream helplessly at the sky.
It's like the university's handout Play-Doh and construction paper and etch-a-sketches.
If you get triggered by a pocket constitution or by a Halloween costume, the university's nationwide and in Europe,
you go into a toddler room with a load desk like when you were three years old and you play with Play-Doh and Crayolas.
By the way, I'm not joking. I'm not joking. Here's a clip.
Anti-Trump social justice warriors are planning events across America on the anniversary of the election
during which they will scream helplessly at the sky.
And you thought we'd seen the last of the autistic screeching.
Now we get to enjoy it all over again.
The biggest event will be in Boston where thousands of people have indicated they'll be attending.
Similar events will take place in Austin, Philadelphia, New York and Chicago.
They're even telling people who can't attend to just scream in their own backyards.
But the attendees themselves are excited.
And to illustrate how sensitive these snowflakes are, one of them got triggered by the fact that the organizers chose to illustrate the Facebook event page with a picture of white men.
Who cares?
They even identified with the screaming woman who became a living meme after the inauguration.
And she wrote, hopefully feeling that like every day.
So we're nearly a year after the election and still, still, all the left has in terms of a counter-argument is to call everyone Nazis
and engage in public temper tantrums where they yell into empty space like deranged mental asylum escapees.
Literally, I'm gonna die. I need an ambulance. I can't believe it.
Yeah, good luck attracting voters with that platform.
And no, this is not fake.
Although people have started creating fake, identical events to troll them, the organizers of the original event in Boston are both anti-trump activists.
This is actually happening. People all over the country are arranging their own autistic, screeching, hissy fits.
And please don't tell them how stupid this is gonna look because I can't wait to use the footage.
It could literally be the best video I ever make.
Also, it's gonna look pretty damn good in those Trump 2020 campaign ads too.
So don't let them know how ridiculous they are until it's over.
By the way, this is not a joke.
There are 4,000 people on a event page in Austin will put on screen for TV viewers that are interested in this.
In general, there's a ratio of about 10% show up.
So that's hundreds and hundreds of people that are gonna show up, scream, help us light the sky on the anniversary of the election.
And that's 651 say they're going.
See, my ratio was about right. 4.1 interested.
I mean, they've been trained to be helpless mental patients by the social engineers.
They go get three, four worthless degrees to sabotage them.
The university engages in psych warfare to create jellyfish that are into being victims but don't know who they were victimized by and then march out against the living.
Now, when we come back, I've been covered in this for 20 plus years.
This didn't just start, but they're coming out with it now.
The sun is reporting on it.
It's top linked on Rudge.
Scientists are implanting tiny human brains into rats.
Now we know how the Democrats are gonna get their voters back.
They're gonna create them.
Also, EPA approved bacteria infected insects to kill mosquitoes.
Can anybody say the Andromeda strain we're making new alien life forms here on earth?
This is not going to go well.
Lyme's disease is weaponized Rocky Mountain fever from ticks.
That's admitted.
I mean, it's just like, wow, wow, we're going to destroy ourselves.
If this doesn't stop, of course, we've got more of the big epic fail compilations, more clips of Congress saying shut down free speech starting with info wars.
I mean, you know, the Chinese communists meet the secret and talk about it here.
They just say it on television.
But briefly, we are doing a 34 hour global transmission right now on AM and FM stations, TV stations and pick us up.
You name it.
But the internet where we can really reach new people.
So on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, info wars.com, forward slash show, take the live video links to the 34 hour broadcast that we're now three and a half hours into and send it out to everyone.
You know, and say, this is the forbidden information.
American rebirth and renaissance one year after the historic victory.
See what Democrats want banned.
Find out the kryptonite they fear.
Find out why they hate it so much.
Be part of the rebellion.
Every time you get excited, we do these live shows.
We did one Saturday, you only had like a million views, which isn't bad for internet only thing.
That's great, actually.
But we've had these before where 10 million people tune in in just a few hours, 30 something million in a day extra.
That's when you do a chain reaction that the globalist fear and spread the live video links on your own Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, email and in person.
So let's jam their operation.
Attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack, attack.
Hey, Daniel Bremen.
Why new manna?
Historical foods.
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead.
And we take this charge seriously.
We got options.
Organic.
No gluten without the chemicals.
Great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today.
Call 888-597-0775.
888-597-0775.
Online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties.
Call Life Benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
America is an information-based civil war.
That's why now, more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
Natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Pylitol, nano-silver, and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Out of stock is back in stock. 25% off our flagship product. Also, biome defense, the great probiotic, that is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out, and a lot of things are still at record sales.
That silver bullet, super high quality colloidal silver, is still 50% off, and there's other sales that are still going, but they're all about to end. Whether it's DNA force, or whether it's silver bullet, it's all available right now at infowarstore.com, or by calling toll-free, 888-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of the infowar.
That's the way that I made it up. I didn't. It's out of the sun today. EPA approves bacteria-infected insects to kill mosquitoes and cause all sorts of serious chain reactions. That's coming up.
Exclusive leak. Deep state to launch massive terror attacks in the United States using Yemenis Islamic cutouts controlled by deep state assets inside Saudi Arabia.
Trump's been basically rolling up those groups, and so the deep state, our intel is, was connected to the Vegas attack using these groups. They've launched an ICBM attack on Saudi Arabia's capital.
There is just a lot of this unfolding, a lot of this going on. Now we're going to go to Roger Stone here in just a few minutes with what happened in Virginia and with what happened in, of course, New Jersey.
Is it signaling the end of the global populist role? The answer is, of course not, but the media is spinning that.
We'll give you the cold hard facts in a moment, but we're having flashbacks to the campaign last year and to campaign night coming up next hour.
We're going to air some of the MSNBC, CNN host, when they got the word that Trump was going to win, versus info wars when we did.
You can also just Google Alex Jones and Roger Stone toast Trump victory. They hate that champagne, champagne shot, believe me.
That's why it's important to remember what we're fighting for, the fact that Trump has delivered, but the fact that they are gunning for all of us, we are in the thick of battle.
But going back to the campaign itself, this video ad we did got about 20 million views on Facebook, a couple million on YouTube, just on our platforms,
and really affected the campaign in a big way. You see, they lied about Barry Goldwater in 1960s and said that he wanted nuclear war with the Russians because he was a patriot.
And they ran an ad, the little girl with the daisy pulling the pedals off with a countdown to nuclear war, and a hydrogen bomb gets dropped on her.
And it says, vote Johnson. Well, if you look at Hillary saying, I will bomb Iran, I want war, we're going to fund the Arab Spring,
all the things she'd done in the past, attacking Serbia, Iraq, the list went on and on, that she was the one that really deserved an ad like this.
So we made our own ad based on this, Darren McBreen did with Leigh Ann McAdoo. It's pretty powerful. Here it is.
The bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the president gives the order, it must be followed.
There's about four minutes between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear weapons to do so.
As president, I will make it clear that the United States will treat cyber attacks just like any other attack.
We will be ready with serious political, economic and military responses.
They're voting for peace on planet Earth if they vote for Trump, but if they vote for Hillary, it's war.
We came, we saw, we died.
With her, you'll end up in world war three.
I want the Iranians to know that if I'm the president, we will attack Iran.
Right now, Senator, for us to control all of the airspace in Syria would require us to go to war against Syria and Russia.
The U.S. military has just raised the threat level to DEF CON 2. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton is still threatening Russia with military action following unconfirmed reports of further hacking.
It's like she's not even concerned about the repercussions.
Of course not, because she's really loud.
Alright, looks like we're having a little bit of technical difficulties. We'll try to get Leigh Ann back on in a few minutes.
When the president gives the order, it must be followed.
Mushroom clouds November 4th. Vote like the world depends on it.
And you did. Now, remember what they did. And I've got even New York Times here in my stack admitting that the same pollster companies that lied and said Hillary was going to win in a landslide are over sampling Democrats again, targeting Democrat voting pools for their polls to create the illusion that Trump,
let's just say Trump has a negative 5,000 instead of saying he's a 40. The bots, the Google AI system, the Bloomberg business consoles, as they're called, have Trump at about 65 points right now.
He's not having his support eroded. In fact, his presidency is succeeding now. And that's why they're panicking. And it's been confirmed that millions of people voted in the names of dead people and over a million illegals and everything's being verified.
That's why they're panicking. So how did they win New Jersey and Virginia? How did they run those governor's races? How did they do it?
Well, here with the answer, not the spin, but the answer he predicted this would happen is Roger Stone. It's twofold. He's going to break down the twofold reasons why this happened.
They're claiming it is a referendum on Americana and Trumpism. Is CNN lying to me because they never do that, Roger?
No, Alex, I would have to concede that this is a crushing, stunning defeat for the old establishment Republican Party that despises Donald Trump.
I would point out to you that Ed Gillespie, the Republican candidate in Virginia, former Republican National Chairman under George W. Bush, had George W. Bush actively visit the state and campaign for him, did not ask the president to campaign for him.
At the grassroots, Tea Party activists, conservative activists, Trump supporters saw no particular reason to turn out despite a very poor campaign by the Democrat, Alex, this was a repudiation of the Rhino wing of the Republican Party.
I would point out that President Trump did not carry Virginia in the 2016 election. So this is a rush. This is not a net loss.
Now we turn to New Jersey, where this was sadly, even though he didn't particularly like this, a referendum on outgoing Governor Chris Christie. Christie could be today the single most unpopular governor in the United States.
Again, Donald Trump did not visit the state, did not campaign for the Republican candidate, Lieutenant Governor Kim Gardano, who was inexorably linked to Christie. Pence did not campaign there.
It was not a major thrust. Sure. And these are both states that, I mean, these are areas that went for Clinton. And so that's why you're saying it is a wash and Trump has come out and said that Gilebsi did not embrace me or what I stand for.
And again, you see populist candidates being elected all over the world. This is a global phenomenon against globalism, much bigger than these two races. That's why we see what eight other special elections where the outsider has won in every case.
No, I think you make an excellent point, which is the Trump candidate has won in every special election we have had since his election. In the case of Alabama, Trumpism seems to have survived and thrived and succeeded without Trump himself.
So reading too much into these two left-leaning states, blue states, both of which did not go for the president, trying to act like this is a giant setback for Trump. No, this is a setback for the Bushes.
You know, you'd think that Gilebsi…
There's plenty of hands and attempt to regain control of the party. Forwarded again. We had no investment in Ed Gilebsi. He is not one of us.
You'd think Ed Gilebsi would know bringing in George W. Bush is like bringing in the kiss of death or bringing in the black plague or bringing in gonorrhea, bringing in… I mean, what's wrong with these people?
No, I mean, look, George W. Bush literally crashed our economy. The housing meltdown, the fuel and fuel are based on a fake pretext of nuclear weapons in the hands of Saddam Hussein.
That is a failed presidency and the American people have had it with the Bushes. They're done. Finished.
Roger Stone.
They're going to get read by booked up Bush crime family.
That's right. You're going to be hosting the fourth hour and doing an hour of the war room part of the 34-hour special coverage of flashback election 2016. The election heard around the world.
Thank you, Roger. We'll talk to you again coming up in a few hours. We'll be right back with the impending terror attacks.
If you go to infowarstore.com and get game-changing, amazing products, we've been sold out of DNA force for almost four months because the ingredients are nutraceutical grade, the highest quality, the bio-PQQ, all of it.
It's 25% off. The truck got in this morning and it's back, but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all the rest of it. It's the highest quality. Read about what it'll do for you and your family. It is amazing.
We've also been sold out for three months on biome defense, super high quality, probiotic. It's 25% off. Out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really, really proud of it. DNA force and biome defense, probiotic.
Now back in stock, infowarstore.com. And when you buy products from globalists, it's an act of trading with the enemy. It is an act of war. It is an act of standing up.
When you spread the links, the articles and buy products from us, and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gum and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 bucks water.
Emeryx Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine. It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores. Go organic today with Emeryx Essentials.
Visit infowarstore.com to learn more. That's infowarstore.com.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
That's infowarstore.com. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowargelife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say, I don't know what's going to happen at the end of this, but you want to fight, you better believe you got one.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
365 days ago, we were all tracking the latest numbers, seeing the fake polls, studying the actual sampling rate and knowing that Trump, barring massive election fraud, would end up being president.
And despite the 5.7 million people who voted who were dead or were illegal aliens, that's way higher than what Trump said 3.6 million or 3.7 million.
That's the numbers he had last year. Despite that, despite State Department of Public Safety's groups in six states catching Homeland Security, breaking into the computers electronically, remotely trying to steal the election, Hillary was only able to seal five states.
And of course, she stole the nomination from Sanders. That's all public. Their whole house of cards is coming down.
And they know time and time again, info wars is patient zero. Info wars is the first domino. Info wars is the first to get the intel and punch it out there.
That's why they fear us and they hate us.
Last week, they were having congressional hearings after an Islamist brought in on the diversity lottery by Obama, by his program with Chuck E. Schumer, plowed his vehicle into eight people he killed, 11 he mortally, severely injured.
Some are still fighting their lives. And they spun it that it was fake news that the Blasio had been warned and didn't do anything.
And then we linked to news articles and tweets and Fox News when the Imam was on weeks before warning him.
Remember, he had people in his parades that were connected to cop killers and connected to Islamic groups. I mean, this is crazy.
And the reason I raise this is they're trying to shut us down.
And that's why when you share the links to info wars dot com, when you share the live feed for this 34 hour broadcast on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, you're getting around their bots, you're doing it by hand.
When you tell folks at work or at church or wherever it's changing the world, the data we've got, the the intel we've got is the globalist number and it's bringing them down.
So spread the link info wars dot com forward slash show and we had a million extra people tune in on a special broadcast Saturday.
And the regular show has six, seven, eight million people a day tuning in.
People said, why do you care about a million on a Saturday? Because those are mainly new people.
That's who we want our folks that are ready to be awakened but aren't yet.
So that said, brain and others put together a little piece.
Remember Veritas a month ago, they got the video where they said our main job shut down all shows.
Well, then now we have Congress saying, and they have the heads of Twitter, Google and Facebook admitting, yes, sir, we saw him forced at lunch.
We blocked it, sir. This is sensational.
This is the Streisand effect if you take action. So here is this important piece.
We confirm suspicions at Veritas. It's not a shock to you, but to get the employee at YouTube on tape admitting that they do it.
I mean, you must be a threat if they call you out by name.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
After just a short time ago, and I'm talking about when this meeting started on Twitter.
If you clicked on the hashtag NYC terrorist attack, which is quote trending,
bark with a red button saying quote live.
The top tweet links to an info war story with the headline and mom.
I warned DeBlasio about New York City terror. He was too busy bashing Trump.
I don't know what happens in somebody's mind or how dark their heart must be to say things like that.
This is a real time example of when we talk about this information being weaponized.
But Trump doesn't challenge these lies. He actually went on Jones's show and said,
your reputation is amazing. I will not let you down. You will be very, very impressed. I hope.
How quickly can you act and what's your responsibility to set the record straight
so that the people who saw this know that it's fake news and at least at some point in time
it can't keep spreading like some sort of virus through legitimate world.
That's something we're thinking about all the time because it's a bad user experience
and we don't want to be known as a platform for that.
You have RT. You have Sputnik. You have Rupley.
And then I think you have them feeding other entities. Info wars comes to mind where those are echo chambers.
The system self corrected. That shouldn't be the first tweet you see anymore.
It should be a USA article the last time I checked.
But you saw this.
USA Today. At lunch I did. And I also saw the system corrected.
That man's a threat to this country.
They didn't call out Fox News by name. They didn't call out anyone else by name.
They said, when it comes to Alex Jones, we need people to scroll and manually find him
and manually have to find that video. We're not going to allow that video if it gets 10 million views
to be on the front of the so-called news carousel.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
It's Alex Jones.
I'm going to say this very slowly to the listeners because I know you've been in this battle a long time
and you're the reason we're winning and we're in this together.
But we are seen as a capital ship. That means a flagship in this fight.
And we're the ones they're trying to shoot the rudder off of. We're the ship under main fire.
And that's why we need you to financially support us.
But to realize it's the information we cover that's got them on the run.
Of course, the Blasio was warned that jihad attacks were coming with trucks.
Of course, he's hurt by that. So they just say it's evil ban info wars for saying the sky's blue.
And they have the head of operations for Twitter who at lunch is shutting down a Paul Joseph Watson article
and saying, sir, we put a USA Today article instead in trending force feeding,
rigging the whole thing with a weirdo who looks like a villain out of a movie named Quigley,
named Wiggly.
You got Pigley Wiggly at the House Intelligence Committee.
This is why we're in so much trouble with people like this.
And they're having 2016 election hearings last Friday and then just no evidence, no nothing.
I'm a Russian agent. So I'm not human. I've got to be shut down
because I'm the opposite of a Russian agent. Everybody knows it.
Everybody knows everybody knows it.
Look, you don't get more Americana than info wars. It just doesn't happen.
Aggressive, freedom based, committed, fearless, vicious, foaming at the mouth, creative, full of energy.
That's America.
And if they can shut us down, they can shut you down.
That's why I need you to go to infowarstore.com today during this 34 hour broadcast
where we have the biggest sales we've run in probably six months.
We only do this a few times a year, these big 24 hour plus broadcast American rebirth and Renaissance 34 hour broadcast
limited time specials plus free shipping.
Oh, hadn't done that in a while on top of the record specials.
It's been an amazing year for info wars and selection.
We want to show our appreciation for all the patriots and info wars that make this possible.
Our fight for liberty and truth is not yet over.
We're dropping prices dramatically to help you get great products and support our broadcasts at the same time.
Help celebrate the election anniversary of President Trump and show your support for alternative news
with these incredible specials and infowarstore.com.
Super male vitality, even though it's close to selling out, we never do this.
50% off with free shipping.
Boom, super female vitality 50% off with free shipping.
Boom, biome defense just got it back in it being sold out for three months.
50% off, by the way, with the free shipping.
And if you sign up for auto ship, it's a loss leader.
Yes, you heard me.
We lose money on that sucker.
All apparel 50% off and free shipping.
All ball caps, all t-shirts, all sweatshirts, all everything.
50% off, vitamin mineral fusion.
50% off, free shipping.
That's so good for your children, but also for adults.
Secret 12, highest quality B12, rated the very highest quality out there by third party sites with free shipping.
Super blue, fluoride free, mouthwash with colloidal silver and iodine in it.
Super good deal.
50% off with free shipping.
We lose money on that one, but I want you to see how great it is.
DNA force back in stock, sold out for almost four months, 25% off with free shipping.
And ladies and gentlemen, we can only run these specials for the next few days.
A lot of the other specials you notice are over now.
We had to stop them.
But there's no excuse at prices like this.
I want you to wear the shirts to spread the word in the Info War and meet like-minded people.
I want you to get products that I've never tried and really see how good they are.
This is the time to get super blue mouthwash.
This is the time to get super blue toothpaste and we have it for children.
But whatever you do, commit to pray for the broadcast and commit to spread the word and commit to support our local affiliates.
Whatever you do, spread the links, infowars.com forward slash show.
Everybody you know, let's just not have a few million extra listeners of yours today.
Let's have it go super viral and defeat their algorithms.
Let's rip the robot's brains out.
Let's smash the globalists.
Let's win. Let's wake up. Let's rise.
Yeah, stay with us.
Super male vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products.
And this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean. That means it's pure.
And rest secured, you're funding the tip of the spear in the Info War.
And vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
Emeryx Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emeryx Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
We've got flashbacks coming up this hour from the leftist and the globalist, the elitist, when Trump won.
At 2.30 in the evening, then we've got my little victory speech, where I said watch Trump's going to deliver.
We've been proven right there.
And we've got so much more.
We've got live reporters on the ground with a big screaming fest, where the left's going to scream at the sky helplessly in their own words.
But here are some excerpts of top Trump media meltdowns 365 days ago.
This is the time for real wisdom, lightning round.
If Trump wins, how about bursting into tears and screaming fuck for the next 45 minutes?
America is crying tonight.
I'm not sure how much of America, but a very, very significant portion, I mean literally crying.
Everybody is crying and so upset, and it is the end of their world.
Feels like the end of the world.
We were on Lifetime last night, and I was slowly getting drunk is what happened to me.
How do we explain how this is possible?
How did this happen?
Experience politician versus racist, fake gynecologist.
Everybody hates you, lady.
Get your abortions now.
Such losers.
Such scum.
We're going to be fucked, and we're going to have to live with it.
You're awake, by the way.
You're not having a terrible, terrible dream.
Also, you're not dead, and you haven't gone to hell.
This is your life now.
This is our election now.
This is us.
This is our country.
This is a different Earth today than it was 24 hours ago.
It's a different place, because it just is different.
The woman who President Obama called the most qualified person ever to run for the White House
couldn't break through.
The question remains, who can?
Deeper concerns tonight that the world's shining light of democracy has gone dark.
Decency lost last night, and that's what's so hurtful about this.
This was a white lash.
This was a white lash against a changing country.
It was a white lash against a black president, in part.
And that's the part where the pain comes.
I kind of push back against the advancement of African Americans, of Hispanics, of women, of Muslim Americans.
It is a mourning moment for those people, and it is a moment filled with fear.
I'm on this network, and people know my attitudes about things.
They come up to me, and they're scared, depressed, despair, desperate even, almost clinging to me.
It was a rough night for everybody, I think.
Yeah, we're worried, the people are worried, you know, okay, he's the president, now what?
It feels like we're trying to avoid the apocalypse, and half of the country is voting for the asteroid.
Is there a doomsday plan for a time like this?
Am I right to ask about a doomsday plan?
Do you see this as a doomsday scenario?
So if Donald Trump is democratically elected, and your son is serving as a Marine,
you wouldn't trust his life under that commander in chief, and Kane said, I wouldn't.
That's a pretty extraordinary thing to say.
If you have a son in the Marine Corps, and that you don't trust the commander in chief,
there are people in the military that defend the Constitution.
I cannot put a happy face on that, and that's my job.
This is the first time throughout this entire race where I'm officially shitting my pants.
I genuinely do not understand how America can be this disorganized or this hateful.
How do you govern when your whole campaign was built on the hatred of somebody else?
From slavery to, you know, Nazism, we have faced challenges before to who we are as a people.
Plus the Supreme Court, who knows where that's going to go.
So the only checks and balances we have are us, the view.
How are you supposed to be able to handle the country if you can't handle a pussy?
It's not hard. You learn it in like middle school.
She had the best ad campaign, the best ground game.
This is a shot against meritocracy, I think, because she married it everything.
The normal way you standardize these things, she was supposed to do the win.
You know, she was Hillary Clinton, the most qualified candidate, the best suited for the job, the best temperament.
Now we're hearing not a good candidate.
History is put on hold yet again.
We have no idea who won.
And to cover our bases, we take two different show opens.
First up, here's the outcome I'm hoping for.
Hillary Clinton is the next president of the United States.
But just in case the unthinkable has happened and Donald Trump is our new president,
the show open would look something like this.
Oh, hello.
I'm a conservative nationalist.
A libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women,
as well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
This will be a day long remember.
We've seen the end of the Clintons.
We'll soon see the end of the globalists.
This is the heart of 1776.
Get a white male!
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
Move, bitch! Get out the way!
We pledge allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag.
Infowar has helped fuel the rumor that President Obama is in ICE's support.
It's been a cozy relationship from the beginning.
I will not let you down. You'll be very, very impressed, I hope, and I think we'll be speaking a lot.
Donald Trump and Alex Jones.
This means that Donald Trump will be the 45th President of the United States.
Waging war on corruption is Alex Jones.
Alright, coming up in the next segment, I'm going to air just some excerpts from live and continued coverage at 2 in the morning
when Trump came and gave his celebration victory speech.
I'm going to air some excerpts of that from when I and Roger Stone were sitting here in this very studio 365 days ago,
or a little less than 364 and a half days ago.
But we're going to relive all that tonight with live coverage throughout the evening with myself,
Leanne McAdoo, David Knight, Paul Joseph Watson, Darren McBreen, Rob Dew,
Michael Zimmerman, Millie Weaver, I mean, all this goes on and on. Jake Lloyd, I obviously can't list everybody here.
And I'll be on tonight at 8 o'clock nearing that for what's basically commercial-free.
We'll play some promos and have some breaks, but it's just free to air to radio stations and TV stations that were on satellite and TV affiliates already with.
I'm going to do a Reddit Ask Me Anything. I haven't done that in about a year.
I also did that last year on Election Night, I think the day before Election Night.
So we're going to repeat that with a Reddit Ask Me Anything on the Donald.
That is coming up as well tonight.
We have 34 hours of live continued coverage. I need to hit some other geopolitical news.
There's some really serious issues here before we get back into celebrating the one-year anniversary of Trump.
But I got to say this, people really are looking a gift horse in the mouth if they don't thank God for what's happening with Trump.
Because he has appointed a lot of swamp creatures, but also a lot of good people, to government that are carrying out the restoration of this republic.
But the only argument is, well, Trump's appointed some people that were for Goldman Sachs or this or that.
Where do you think you get people at the highest levels to run things who know how the system works?
That's where you get them. What I cared about is the results.
But the people he's putting at the Fed are anti-globalist, EPA anti-globalist, over the Federal Trade Commission, anti-globalist.
He's killing land grabs, water grabs out west and across the country.
He's reversing the regulations, fighting like the devil to try to cut taxes across the board and make us competitive,
turning our energy back on, bringing our coal-powered plants back.
That is so fundamental right there alone, that it makes my head spin.
In fact, there's so much data I get lost in translation. Paul Watson did an article a few months ago titled,
The First 100 Days of Trump, and it's got like 50 things Trump did.
The White House put one out too. I should probably get that and go over some of those on air.
And then what's happened since then as well.
And also, you know, we go into these big productions, and I kind of preach to the crew here on air in a good way.
But everything's transparent here. You know, you spend months making something. We're going to air it.
Walker did a great job putting together like an hour-long documentary.
And I said, listen, we're way past The First 100 Days. You've got to finish it someday.
And he said, well, there's so many accomplishments. And I said, I know. Just pick the big ones.
So next break, I just remembered that. I'm going to go over there and say, where is that?
Because we're going to air it. That's how this works.
We're going to put the stuff out there.
Because there's so much amazing stuff that's produced here that you never see.
Not by conspiracy. It's just that we work on something, work on something, and then so much happens we never get back to the other stuff.
It's so important. So throughout the next 30-plus hours.
It's a 34-hour broadcast. We're about four hours into it now.
David Knight did three hours taking it off this morning with the real news, as he does a great job every weekday morning at 8 a.m.
But that's what you're going to be seeing is our best promos, our best pieces, our best many documentaries that have never aired.
And just a lot of powerful info, your calls, special guests, all of it, infowars.com, forward slash show,
and on local stations across the country, some of which are picking us up 24 hours live today.
And that's why we're being good boys and girls and not using any potty language.
Now, let me get into the really serious news here.
There is an individual who recently got out of the Army and Special Operations Command out of Florida
who's been calling in the last year or so with just really accurate information.
The reason I know it's accurate information is because I do my own research.
He was going to come on about two weeks ago officially as a guest.
And he got called in by the military to, I guess, drive into Tampa and be questioned about what he was going to talk about on the show.
And so he said, okay, I won't do the interview.
Then he called back in some more in the last week and talked about a lot of really important things.
And he said, okay, I'll come on your show tomorrow.
Within two hours, the FBI showed up at his door and took him away to the military.
Now, they let him call his lawyer and they let him call us and he sent us a message.
And by the way, we know who this individual is. We've confirmed from others that this is happening.
And we've been basically told we ought to watch what we're doing, too.
Now, you've seen major persecution of the press under Obama.
But why is Zach, who's now a contractor, doing all this?
Zach, who speaks Arabic fluently, and I'll just leave it at that.
Zach, who's actually been in the news before.
Zach, who's well known.
And I'm going to stop right there. His first name's Zachary.
There is a civil war going on in the Middle East between Shiite and Sunni.
There's a civil war within the heart of Islam, Saudi Arabia and Mecca, there in Riyadh and Medina,
between the royal house and the globalist arm that funded ISIS and al-Qaeda.
Trump went over there, made a deal, said no more funny business, shut it down.
The U.S. policy of funding radical jihadis is over.
The king came to the table, they parlayed, and they made a deal.
Then there were raids in Yemen to get the documents to be able to roll up the networks
so he could present the king with the evidence of who was double-crossing with Iran and others.
Now, we told you that Saturday night with Roger Stone, he talked to a very high person in the White House,
very high up, about as high as you can go in the White House.
The point is, and we told you what was behind it, it's all come out in the news now.
Zach just echoes that info, didn't give us anything secret, told us as an intelligence analyst
and a guy that's been involved heavily in a lot of obviously clandestine stuff,
that's why they don't want him talking to us, they're afraid of what he will say.
I already know basically all of it, I don't need to get it from him.
I'm already a reverse engineer, the whole thing.
But there's a civil war spilling over and the Saudis were having a military convention in Vegas when that happened.
We were already on that.
The ISIS rescue team was already looking into it.
And that this was blowback with this very sheik who got arrested, the prince, who hates Trump and is fighting the Democrats
and the never-trumpers and works with the Bushes.
And their whole New World Order global network is being rolled up.
Their helicopters are blowing up, they're getting killed in firefights.
I mean, this is happening.
And the word is, there's Yemeni's terror networks, the same ones that fired a missile last weekend in Saudi Arabia
that are headless now because they've been cut off, that have been dead man switched to launch attacks in the Middle East and here
if they were ever decapitated and that that's about to happen.
And he wanted to warn everybody of an impending Yemeni's terror attacks in the West and the US.
And right now he's locked up in the military base basically.
Katie Armour has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market and we've succeeded.
With the release of our CQB technology, we now offer the most comfortable concealable rifle threat body armor available.
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmour.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at katiearmour.com.
8-8-6-3-6-5-3
8-7-7-8-8-6-3-6-5-3
8-8-8-6-5-8-6-5-3
Twist on this Primitive Survival Tool.
Feel the thrill, only at SlingBow.com.
This is Dan Pilla.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you,
there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs,
there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX
or my website, danpilla.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem
that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins
from food and water and beverages in my system,
but right now we're dealing with massive parasites,
which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now, with all the refugees spreading disease around,
we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that's said.
There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse
at least twice a year.
All right, well, I'm glad we've got some back in
because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose, it's full of stuff
that's great for your body, period.
And you can support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work
serving this great product.
My fellow freedom lovers, Alex Jones here
with a very important message.
Secret 12, 40% off the best vitamin B12 out there
from our research.
Take it under the tongue, simply amazing.
That sale is continuing.
Supermelt, vitality, for stamina, libido, energy,
that's 30% off, that's continuing.
And the other really, really good news
is that, yes, we're having to end the sale of 50% off
on Anthroplex, but DNA force after almost four months
out of stock is back in stock, 25% off our flagship product.
Also, Biome Defense, the great probiotic,
that is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out,
but a lot of things are still at record sales.
Like Silver Bullet, super high quality colloidal silver
is still 50% off.
And there's other sales that are still going,
but they're all about to end.
Whether it's DNA force, whether it's Silver Bullet,
it's all available right now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll-free, triple-A-253-3139.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You are listening to an infowars.com front-line report.
If you are receiving this transmission,
you are the resistance.
From deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6,
you will be able to find out what's going on
and what's going on right now.
And if you want to know more about what's going on,
you can go to infowars.com.
And if you want to know more about what's going on,
from deep in the heart of FEMA Region 6,
Austin, Texas, transmitting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
We're now about three and a half hours, four and a half hours
into the live 34-hour worldwide coverage
of the American rebirth and renaissance.
We have a lot of callers to the broadcast,
but one caller in the last year became personally known to us
as who he said he was, someone who'd worked
in intelligence operations against different radical
jihad organizations across the world.
And he never gave us anything classified on air.
He just pointed out things that were already
in public knowledge, but that we should connect the dots on.
And he was gonna come on as a guest today
and announced on air he would.
We confirmed, of course, in the last few weeks
exactly who he was.
And he is a whistleblower saying that deep state
left over from before Trump was running al-Qaeda and ISIS.
There's a civil war in Saudi Arabia.
Trump is moving with the Saudi King to clean that up
and end that, but the Democrats and globalists
and John McCain, namely, are using that breakaway network
of Yemenis, terrorists, and others in Europe and the US
to prepare new attacks in Saudi Arabia and here
and that those attacks are imminent.
Now, within an hour and a half of him getting off the air,
the FBI came to his house and took him
to a military base.
He was able to call his lawyer and send a message
and send us a message.
And I have the messages right here and we talk to him.
So it's not to the point where they put a bag over his head,
but they took all his computers, everything,
looking for him, giving any classified material away
so they can throw him in prison.
And this individual has been a whistleblower before.
Like Tosh Plumlee was a famous CIA contractor
and exposed everything about Benghazi on this show first.
They called him and threatened to put him in prison.
He said, go ahead and do it.
In this case, they have grabbed Zachary,
who's asked us not to give out his full name and information.
If we did give out his full name and information,
he's well-known in the military, honorable guy,
but has been involved exposing corruption before. So this is
very, very credible.
And the media author making jokes about this, listen,
this is serious because he exposed connections
to the Vegas attacks to the breakaway rogue Saudi groups
that are backing Yemeni terrorists and others and gun
deals, confirming our own research and our own data
from FBI sources and others.
Now there's a civil war going on,
a missile fired at the International Airport
in Saudi Arabia in Riyadh, fire fights,
helicopter explosions, deaths.
The whole globalist pro-ISIS, pro-Al-Qaeda network
is being rolled up right now, is being taken out.
The globalist arm funding and running radical Wahhabism
is being destroyed by President Trump.
And so this patriot calls in to say his sources and his
research and his intel, and that's what he does now
as a citizen, telling the American people,
I mean, his intellect isn't classified.
But we really do have a new First Amendment
that Yemeni terrorists have been decapitated,
their leadership's gone, but they've got dead men's
switches, which is standard, to launch terror attacks
and people need to know that.
And the deep state wants to embarrass Trump
with more terror attacks.
And it's all connected to the anti-fuck,
this individual, Devin Kelly, in mental institutions,
the Air Force put him in, trying to go to bases with guns
to kill his commanding officers.
That's the Associated Press and CBS News,
and protected and allowed to assault his wife
and other people and children, and to be a pedophile,
and then protected and then turned loose.
You know he was told, you're our little secret agent now,
the deep state, you're not gonna go to jail,
don't kill your commanding officers,
we have a job for you.
And just like a wind-up toy, right out of a government
mental institutions, allowed to get guns,
the files not put into the NIC system on purpose,
so their wind-up toy, classic Manchurian candidate.
Let's put Devin Kelly on screen.
And what did our source start talking about yesterday?
He said, I can't get into this, and I can't get into him,
and I can't get into his background,
but it's all in the news.
And absolutely, there it is, mind control.
If they can't hype up a revolution on November 4th,
they'll activate their sleeper cells,
and let me tell you something,
they got hardcore drugs, they got programming,
they got it all, and the proof is,
they put him in a mental institution
for trying to kill his chain of command with weapons,
and they let him out, and then they let him
continue to attack people and did nothing.
They protected him, just like Major Hassan at Fort Hood
for two years, was talking to the number two in Al Qaeda
about his attacks, and the CIA knew and did nothing.
Because look at that mind control, look at that guy.
I bet if you did it on top,
see he's been under electroshock therapy, you name it.
That guy tried to kill his high command,
and they said, put this guy into a black project,
scramble his brain, this guy's a perfect candidate
as a wind-up toy.
You wanna be a killer, son?
You're gonna get to be a killer now.
You're in the program whether you like it or not.
And that's how the ball bounces.
And that's why they grabbed Zachary up,
because Zachary knows how to cow ate cabbage.
And that, my friends, is the rest of the story.
If you just joined us, imminent,
Yemeni's terrorist backed by break-off splinter groups
of the CIA tied to the old Clinton globalist Obama guard
and John McCain, who funded all these terror attacks
across the world.
Bandar Bush, who told Russia four years ago,
if you get involved in Syria,
will launch terror attacks against your tourist zones,
and they've been hit now.
The whole thing's right there,
and the same message they gave Russia
is the same message they gave Trump.
You roll over and you back off,
or we're gonna blow up casinos.
We're gonna shoot people and ruin America's businesses.
You know what Trump said?
Watch you all get arrested and killed.
Boom, hit back.
Oh, you hit us at Vegas?
You just got hit again.
And there's people that don't want you
to know that information,
but I can tell you right now, I'm not stupid.
It's not like Zachary would just magically
get all this on the show by himself.
This is a total civil war within the government,
and people are telling you what's really going on
so it can be stopped,
and you know it's been authorized.
Cause mama didn't raise a fool.
I see the whole thing, don't you?
So that's where we are.
Breakaway terror groups,
breakaway deep state, leftist CIA,
Ford Foundation, Carnegie Foundation,
Soros, type back groups,
same ones over through Ukraine would have violent uprisings.
They can't get leftists to go out and do anything.
They're too busy wearing pampers.
They're too busy sucking pacifiers.
They're too busy whining.
And so they've got their Islamic wind-ups,
and I want those Islamic wind-ups to know.
Most of them are scrambled brains like Mr. Kelly.
You need to know, stupid, that you're being set up.
You need to know, you need to just stop.
You need to just disappear.
You need to just go away.
Because dead men tell no tales,
and you're gonna be in a black site getting tortured
till you don't even know which end is up.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, I'm Alex Jones, your host.
This is the most hardcore transmission there is,
because the truth is the only thing
that's gonna set us free.
Truth conquers all,
and we're gonna conquer the globalists.
We're gonna win this civil war.
We're gonna win the Info War.
Powerful information from election night.
On the other side, straight ahead,
I'm Alex Jones, please stay with us.
We are on the march.
The empire is on the run.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's a no-brainer, a Big Berkey water filter
is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine,
fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA,
and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name
in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems
using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99 Berkey,
or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99 BERKEY.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years,
someone has finally come up with a better way.
The Bug Assault, a miniaturized shotgun,
which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition.
Non-toxic and no batteries required.
39.95 plus shipping and handling.
Use discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase
at bugassault.com.
Fire your Fliced Water and get your Bug Assault today.
Men, give your body the support it needs
with InfoWars Life Prostaguard.
It's time to start assisting the body
in regulating proper prostate balance.
InfoWars Life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there,
but formulas that you can use on a daily basis
to give your body the natural herbs and extracts
that our experts recommend.
The Prostaguard formula does just that
with its mixture of plant-based nutrients
and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene,
plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium, and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men
on the InfoWars crew take every day,
and from our research, it's something
that men should really be adding to their daily regimen
in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostaguard on your side today,
exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
America is an information-based civil war.
That's why now, more than ever,
we've got to hit the streets of America
and let these globalists scum know
we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations
in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist,
a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate
is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot
who's pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom,
who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of Thomas Jefferson's class of liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends,
and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs
of high-quality t-shirts for men and women,
as well as more Patriot Feral at InfoWarsStore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution
at InfoWarsStore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep
with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made
from high-quality natural ingredients,
such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch
to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world
experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life,
we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands
at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com
and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
MUSIC
MUSIC
365 days later, the shockwaves,
the flashbacks from the front lines
of the Information War.
It's Alex Jones.
MUSIC
The video we're about to air was from 3 a.m. in the morning.
I was totally exhausted.
I had a couple glasses of champagne, but it wasn't alcohol.
I was just totally shot.
I've been on air like 15, 16 hours.
I had to do one final transmission that night.
We're going to air some Hex Serb 7
here in just a moment.
Then start the next hour and open the phones up
and play compilation clips of them all panicking
and freaking out.
But back to the impending terror attack,
according to our source and the civil war going on in Islam,
it all comes together.
You can see why they wanted to shut that source up
because they're afraid of what Elsie might say.
But he didn't say anything secret.
But hopefully, once he gets out or his lawyer approves it,
we'll have Zach via Skype or in studio with us.
But they're threatening to take his job away
and his security clearance.
You know what?
People have a right and they have a duty
to stand up against the globalists.
And the deep state clearly has been behind Islam.
They've been behind radical Islam.
They've been behind the destabilization
in the Middle East, the Arab Spring.
John McCain funded and helped create ISIS with Hillary and Obama.
And so, of course, they would be suspects and launch attacks
inside this country.
And yes, I'm saying it, the people that control them.
Now, before I go any further, we're
running the biggest specials.
We run them like six months and free shipping
store-wide at infowarstore.com.
And when we sell products at this lower price,
we've got to sell a lot of it to fund the operation.
But I know the products are so good
that even though we make a very small profit on each item,
you'll like them and then order more.
Especially things like the coffee that's so good
or our toothpaste or our mouthwash
or our vitamin mineral fusion, a fruit punch drink
that's got all the amino acids and multivitamins,
our probiotic, all of it.
Supermill vitality, 50% off, never done that, and free shipping.
Boom.
Superfill more vitality, 50% off with free shipping.
Boom.
Bound defense, 50% off with free shipping.
With the free shipping, folks, it's a loss leader.
You sign up for auto-ship.
We're losing like $6, $7 on this.
Bound defense, amazing probiotic.
We just got it in, sold out for almost three and a half months.
Doesn't matter, I just want you to see how great it is.
50% off, free shipping.
Vitamin mineral fusion, 50% off, free shipping.
Secret 12, free shipping, 50% off.
Super blue fluoride, free mouthwash with colloidal silver
and iodine, incredibly powerful concentrate.
50% off and free shipping.
It's a big bottle, so the shipping's a big cost in there.
DNA force sold out for almost four months, 25% off,
out of the gates, free shipping.
These specials cannot last long because some of these items
are about to sell out.
And quite frankly, folks, again, some of these
won't even have back until the new year.
I just want to absolutely blow it all out
and let you see how great Secret 12 works,
see how great vitamin mineral fusion is.
And the t-shirts, these are just advertisement for the truth.
So I'd love to put them out at cost.
I mean, that's when we sell 100,000 t-shirts.
We've sold 100,000 of the Joker variant shirts,
three different shirts, 100,000 total.
But I sold most of them at $5.
You lose money at that after all the costume, everything,
especially when there's free shipping.
So look, I can't sell them for $5.
But 50% off, a lot of the shirts are like $7.
We've got the limited edition shirt
that's $13.
I think we're discounting it on top with free shipping.
It's just ridiculous.
We've got the anti-shirt that says anti-fascism
and anti-communism with the anti-fastile symbol.
That's the American flag and the Gadsden flag.
Great way to trigger them.
That's only sold in the month of November.
It's now 998 and free shipping.
And it's a high quality shirt.
So infowarstore.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three,
one, three, nine.
See, it was already, I guess 40% off.
Now it's 50% off, 998 and stickers come with it.
And free shipping.
I mean, we lose probably $5 on that.
But I don't care.
I just want to get it out there.
I want to spread the word.
I want to win the info war.
So infowarstore.com, infowarslive.com
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Store-wide free shipping.
On everything but like the storeable foods,
that's so heavy.
And the few other things that are drop ship.
But free shipping infowarsstore.com
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
And sign up for auto ship.
Get an additional 10% off.
And then you know every month or every six days
or nine days, you can cancel any time with one click.
It's not like those old encyclopedia things
or whatever you were a kid.
You get the book club and then it was so hard to cancel
or whatever.
This is one click digital, 10% off.
Sign up for 14 days, 30 days, 60 days, 90 days.
Every six months.
And it just gets delivered to your door
and additional 10% off a win-win infowarsstore.com.
Please commit to support the broadcast today.
Please spread the link.
If you're not listening to us on local radio station,
spread their local link.
If you're not spread the link to infowars.com,
or slash show, we are now four and a half hours
into the worldwide broadcast, America Rebirth
and Renaissance was so much coming up today.
Okay.
Let me get to this.
I'll have to play part of it in this segment,
part of it in the next segment.
Then I'm gonna get into some of the geopolitical news
and financial news and election news
and election fraud news, vindicating Trump further.
And then the big news,
scientists are implanting tiny human brains into rats.
Told you that 20 years ago.
In fact, they're not implanting brains.
That's old technology.
They are putting human genetics into where the rat brain
has human genetics and human characteristics.
You notice I'm always made fun of this
because I'm 20 years ahead.
And I'm not bragging anybody could be 20 years ahead
if you read policy papers.
They treat you like idiots, folks, like mushrooms.
They keep you in the dark.
So here I am at three something in the morning,
365 days ago, predicting that Trump would deliver
and that I had completed my mission.
I still had more to do,
but this whole chain reaction of nationalism,
crushing globalism, we're not gonna win overnight,
but it's the beginning of the tide turning.
And boy, a year later, has Trump delivered?
Have I been proven with my gut as right?
But I said, the big fight's coming.
I told Roger that that night and you're now seeing it.
So here's the start of the video.
It's almost three o'clock in the morning, central time.
And we now have President-elect Donald Trump.
Donald Trump is no angel, and neither am I.
But Donald Trump's will is that you be prosperous
and that you be successful.
Donald Trump is not satanic.
He does not want to see you poor.
He does not wish to ground you under his treads.
And that's why Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan,
all the big megamags, have set themselves up against him
because they believe they own you.
I knew a year and a half ago
when I endorsed Donald Trump, he was going to win.
And I've talked to him about why I knew that.
But people I know and people I trust
that are patriots, that have defended this republic,
confirmed to me, and I've seen it in Donald Trump's actions,
that he wanted to restore this republic.
But I want to be very clear to you, very clear.
There isn't about credit, it's so that you know the danger.
You've seen the stupid ads with the bunny rabbit
that says Energizer inside.
If you want to know what powers Donald Trump,
individually it's a love of liberty
and a love of standing up to corruption.
He's not perfect, nobody is.
But what powers the movement is info wars.
They want to establish a private corporate
global government.
Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP.
We come on my show 15 years ago
when he barely had a few members of parliament.
Now he's a hundred times bigger or more.
And he would say, it's your listeners
listening to you in the US when I go knock on doors.
That's why we're getting the UK Independence Party.
It's info wars, thank you.
He said that on the show.
We'll be right back on the other side
where it gets pretty hardcore.
Stay with us infowars.com, newswars.com,
Congress, the globalist and Democrats admit
they want to shut us down.
Only you can stop them by spreading the links.
You are the resistance, you are the hope.
They're trying to stop you, don't let them.
That's total truth you just heard.
I am very proud to announce the introduction
of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum
of high quality known probiotics that have been proven
to improve overall digestion and health
and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion
live and active cultures from over 23 different
probiotic strains that are known to support
digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able
to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength
or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years
but this is the limited first round of the public
so please take advantage of it today,
support your own health and support the info war.
You go to infowarsstore.com
and get game changing amazing products.
We've been sold out of DNA force for almost four months
using gradient spark,
nutraceutical grade, the highest quality, the bio PQQ
all of it, it's 25% off.
The truck got in this morning and it's back
but it is a limited run because of all the testing
and all the rest of it is the highest quality.
Read about what it'll do for you and your family.
It is amazing.
We also have been sold out for three months
on biome defense super high quality probiotic.
It's 25% off out of the gates back in stock
but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality,
the very cleanest stuff out there.
We're really, really proud of it.
DNA force and biome defense, probiotic.
Now back in stock infowarslife.com
and when you buy products from globalist,
it's an act of trading with the enemy.
It is an act of war.
It is an act of standing up
when you spread the links, the articles
and buy products from us
and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
My fellow freedom lovers,
Alex Jones here with a very important message.
Secret 12, 40% off the best vitamin B12 out there
from our research.
Take it under the tongue.
Simply amazing.
That sale is continuing.
Super metal vitality for stamina, libido, energy.
That's 30% off.
That's continuing.
And the other really, really good news is that yes,
we're having to end the sale of 50% off on Anthroplex
but DNA force after almost four months,
out of stock is back in stock.
25% off our flagship product.
Also biome defense, the great probiotic,
that is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out
but a lot of things are still at record sales.
Like silver bullet, super high quality colloidal silver
is still 50% off and there's other sales
that are still going but they're all about to end.
Whether it's DNA force or whether it's silver bullet,
it's all available right now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free, triple A 253-3139.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products
with Emmerich's Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection
of organic based household products at infowarsstore.com
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen,
date free herbal bug spray,
concentrated peppermint mouthwash,
unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo
and long lasting natural deodorant.
Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins
that may harm your body.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients
to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products
to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural
without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself
and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more
about the new Emmerich's Essentials line
of organic products.
That's infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We are on the march.
The empire is on the run.
Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network.
We're living on the edge.
All right, folks, get ready for this coming up in the next hour.
Facebook wants your nudes to combat revenge porn.
The government wants to basically start the program
but then force you in Australia to take nude photos of yourself
and put it online so that they can have bots go out
and stop revenge porn if anybody ever did anything bad to you.
Talk about pre-crime.
Talk about AI controlling everything
so we can, quote, protect you.
Talk about nightmare.
That's coming up.
That's a Merkel-failing article at infowars.com
directly linking to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.
Scientists are implanting tiny human brains into rats.
That's the sun.
We'll get into that.
EPA proves bacteria infected insects to kill mosquitoes.
That's just some of the new self-driving cars.
They're not in Kansas anymore.
But first, let's go back to that 3 a.m. transmission
where I laid out the fact that already infowars had done its mission
and been successful and really turned the tide thanks to you.
And then I believe Trump would then deliver,
which we're now seeing unfold.
But the fight is just beginning.
Here it is.
The leader of UKIP.
We come on my show 15 years ago when he barely had a few members of parliament.
Now he's 100 times bigger or more.
And he would say, it's your listeners listening to you in the U.S.
when I go knock on doors.
That's why we're getting the UK Independence Party.
It's infowars.
Thank you.
He said that on the show.
He thought about us bragging.
He said the spirit of the info war across the world from Australia
to the UK and Russia from Nigeria to Mexico is spreading.
And it's the Renaissance idea of freedom.
And that's why they're trying to shut us down.
Because we're not perfect, but we're not out to get people.
We believe in lower taxes.
We know empowering the people is the answer.
We don't want to break up families.
We're not out to get people.
And Donald Trump is not out to get you.
That's all.
He's not some weird a** who wants you to abort your kid
or take a dangerous vaccine or submit to their system.
Now that said, it's three o'clock in the morning.
I'm going to shut this down.
I'm exhausted.
But this historic occasion has happened.
I should warn you.
Donald Trump is more a figurehead of liberty than ever before.
And he has the Holy Ghost protecting him.
And no weapon formed against him will prosper
as long as we pray for him.
We're here.
And the evil of the globalist is ongoing.
And Donald Trump isn't some panacea.
He's only a manifestation of our awakening.
So listen to me, and I'm going to close this out.
They are going to try to collapse the world economy.
They've already been prompting it up for a while.
They're going to blame it on Donald Trump, a global depression.
They knew they couldn't stop the movement.
So now that he's in, they're going to implode the economy
and blame him when they're the ones who created the derivatives.
When they're the ones who created the end of Glass-Steagall
when Hillary Clinton and Larry Summers did it all,
they're going to blame Donald Trump.
How do I know that?
They threatened the UK.
They said, you try to leave this un-elected thing.
We'll implode your economy.
We'll take your jobs away, just like they did in Iceland or Greece.
Some countries fold, some fight back.
We know their plan.
If you're just conscious and want to know the truth, it's all there.
It's not my opinion.
I want self-determination.
I won't be held hostage.
So this isn't like buying a lottery ticket
where you elect Donald Trump and beat the establishment
and then expect the whole gravy train to continue on.
Who wants this fake gravy train?
We need to get back to what makes us human, what makes us real.
And if we're getting ahead of the expense of some third-world people,
we shouldn't do it.
If we're getting ahead of the expense of our kids, we shouldn't do it.
Donald Trump, for all his gold-plated planes and everything he does,
his sin is that he isn't out to get you.
I saw the enemy truly against Donald Trump,
spiritually hating him, so I backed him.
And I've interviewed him on air.
I've talked to Donald Trump, but I've talked to other people.
I've talked to other presidents.
Governor Bush tried to get me to work with him.
I didn't do it because he wasn't a good man.
Trump, my spirit tells me, needs to be supported.
And he could falter. He could waver.
But all of us are prodigal sons.
And I can tell you, if you want freedom, it's not free.
The storm is coming now.
This victory is part of the destiny of the Republic.
This country is the vision of incredibly pure people
who wanted to build up society and create a launchpad
for the technology we now enjoy.
And they believe we would be pure and appreciate this technology
in their incredible crystal visions and not a bunch of lazy...
So let's make those pilgrims right.
And let's build what they envisioned because we're their children.
And let's never look down on people that aren't as smart as us
and are weak and say, use them as animals, they're dumb.
Because the minute we stoop down to do that, we become cannibals
and we lose our humanity.
It's not some New Age term because they use this term,
but it's God.
Christ's energy is dumping into this planet right now.
There's a wave in the ambionic fluid of the birth of something magic
that all of us individually have to collectively decide.
We want to give birth to what God talked about, the Bible,
that the eye has not seen, the ear has not heard.
So let's decide we care.
And we can do anything, anything we want.
But we can't hurt the innocent.
All right, I'm done talking. I'm exhausted.
It's 2.43.
I want to thank you, Josh.
I want to thank this whole crew and the viewers and listeners.
And I may not have all the answers.
Thank God I'm not one of these people like Lady Gaga and John Podesta
and all the stuff they're doing.
Can you imagine me?
I'm so fallen that you think corrupting children gives you power.
You're like burning your own hardware up, your own circuitry.
You think, oh, I'm dying spiritually.
Oh, I've got power.
But it's our weakness and subservient to them
that let them think they were God.
And I realize it's those of us that have the spark of creativity
and intellect that give in to these people that are their enablers.
And the fact that we won't take control and rule and build is our fault.
We are the real people that did all this by creating a vacuum
and putting these demons in control.
We ceded control.
We committed the crimes.
I committed the crimes.
And I will no longer commit those crimes.
It's time to take charge of this third dimension and beyond.
Donald Trump is only a childlike, as we all are, manifestation of this.
We have the keys of the universe because God gave them to us.
God who has dreams for us.
God who loves us.
God who gave us knowledge of good and evil.
But we must thank God and then take those keys in our hands
and have the will to open those doors.
The big challenge now comes because the promise to this country in Providence
was that if you'll hit your knees, you'll ask God, you'll get it.
But if we now don't deliver, you won't ask God for Providence here to not deliver.
Now we are bound forever.
And if we don't deliver this plan and free humanity,
we will be bound to the night circle of hell.
I'm bound to this truth and I will never stop delivering.
It's time for you to transcend Hollywood and all these other weak people
and submit yourself to God.
You won't find God in these schools.
You won't find God in these churches.
They're all there to deflect.
You're going to find God in your heart.
I've said it.
I've already run my course.
I already know my entire life purpose has been completed.
I will continue on.
But now I realize I've won.
And now your later Trump is only delivering.
Yes, we're living in epic times.
It's real.
It's real.
It's real.
It's real.
It's real.
It's real.
Defending the Republic from enemies born and domestic.
It's Alex Jones.
Now we've got a bunch of clips of mainstream media whores crying and begging and freaking out coming up.
A bunch of science and technology news as well.
Human brains being implanted into rats.
It's all coming up.
I already aired this, but it's too important.
I'm going to air it again.
I aired it at the very start of the broadcast today.
Or my leg of it.
We're going to be live for the next 30 hours still with a special transmission.
But here are the Democrats telling you and their operatives and the fake comedians
and the fake news that Trump would never be president.
But you bucked their mind control.
And now they don't know what to do because they're all about running your life,
running your mind and telling you what to think.
But sorry, you broke the conditioning.
There's not going to be a president, Donald Trump.
That's not going to happen.
Donald Trump will not become president.
He's not going to be president.
Donald Trump is not going to be president of the United States. Take it to the bank.
I guarantee it.
All right, all right.
I think that man will be president of the United States right about the time that
space ships come down filled with dinosaurs and red capes.
I'm not like Tom.
Take it from me.
How about that?
And then, of course, there's Donald Trump.
Donald Trump has been saying that he will run for president as a Republican,
which is surprising since I just assumed he was running as a joke.
Who's laughing now?
They probably love him.
Donald Trump just last week, he confirmed to the National Review that he is again
considering a run in 2016.
Do it.
Do it.
Look at me.
Do it.
I will personally write you a campaign check now on behalf of this country,
which does not want you to be president, but which badly wants you to run.
So when you stand and deliver that State of the Union address in no part of your mind
or brain, can you imagine Donald Trump standing up one day and delivering a State of the Union address?
Well, I can imagine it in a Saturday night skit.
I continue to believe Mr. Trump will not be president.
He will never be president of the United States.
And we better be ready for the fact that he might be leading the Republican ticket next time.
I know you don't believe that, but I want to go on.
Okay, here we are.
And which Republican candidate has the best chance of winning the general election?
Of the declared ones right now, Donald Trump.
And so right now, Mr. Trump, to answer your call for political honesty,
I just want to say you're not going to be president, all right?
It's been fun.
It's been great.
I love you.
But come on, come on, buddy.
All let's say cow poo poo aside.
There is zero chance we'll be seeing you being sworn in on the Capitol steps
with your hand on a giant golden Bible.
I'll make a prediction note for you.
I don't really get into predictions much, but this one I'll go way out on a limb.
Donald Trump will never, ever be president of the United States.
The Trump should not be in this race.
He's an absurdity.
He is a travesty.
Donald Trump will never be elected president of the United States.
Donald Trump is here today, going tomorrow, candidate for president of the United States.
Donald Trump is not going to be president of the United States.
Of a respectful of the fact that the people have not voted,
he's not going to be president of the United States.
Let's be clear.
Donald Trump will lose the election.
He had a really good chance to be different and really have a chance to change things,
but he doesn't do the work.
He's lazy.
We talk about him every day and we all continuously bash him.
It's not going to be the president.
Don't worry about it.
Exactly.
It's going to be a wake-up call to the Republican Party.
Despite Boris thinking that Donald Trump could win New York,
the presidential race is over.
Can I just cut through?
I have one thing to say, one thing only.
And that is that this race is over.
Tomorrow morning, the money will dry up.
The Republicans will start to hide.
Trump has no place to go.
This race, effectively as of tonight, is no longer a presidential race.
We're going to go to the store.com and get game-changing, amazing products.
We've been sold out of DNA force for almost four months.
These ingredients are nutraceutical grade, the highest quality, the bio-PQQ, all of it.
It's 25% off.
The truck got in this morning and it's back, but it is a limited run
because of all the testing and all the rest of it.
It's the highest quality.
Read about what it will do for you and your family.
It is amazing.
We've also been sold out for three months on biome, defense, super high quality,
biotic.
It's 25% off.
Out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there.
We're really, really proud of it.
DNA force and biome defense, robotic.
Now back in stock, infowarslife.com.
And when you buy products from globalists, it's an act of trading with the enemy.
It is an act of war.
It is an act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles, and buy products from us.
And then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
This will be a day long remember.
We've seen the end of the Clintons.
We'll soon see the end of the globalists.
Donald J. Trump is now president of the United States.
It's not true.
That's impossible.
Search the things who know it to be true.
This is the heart of 1776.
You're a white man.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
Move, bitch! Get out of the way!
We pledge allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag.
Infowars helped fuel the rumor that President Obama was an ISIS supporter.
It's been a cozy relationship from the beginning.
I will not let you down.
You'll be very, very impressed, I hope, and I think we'll be speaking a lot.
Donald Trump and Alex Jones.
This means that Donald Trump will be the 45th president of the United States.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones.
And here we are, 365 days later.
They thought by branding Trump with Infowars.
It would hurt him, but all the studies now show it helped him.
And all their fake polls blew up in their face.
Now the establishment's even more discredited.
They've lost eight special elections when patriots ran.
The Democrats have just won two elections where they won last election,
so it's not really a surprise.
But because they ran establishment Republicans,
that Dr. Edward Group, good friend of mine, is here with us today.
I wanted to get him here in the studio with us to talk about science news,
technology news, you know, about a month ago this came out, CNN.
Fluoride exposure in utero, that's in your mom's uterus,
linked to lower IQs and kids study finds.
And then of course there's other big Harvard studies about 15 point IQ reductions,
just a few years, bringing 1.3 parts per million, causing massive brain damage.
And of course the government mandates even higher than that.
Here it is, fluoride exposure in utero linked to lower IQ and kids.
Now Facebook wants your nudes to combat revenge porn, I'm not joking.
And then another report here, scientists are implanting tiny human brains into rats.
We're going to get into that a bit.
I've been mentioning it, we're going to talk about it.
We'll talk about the election, everything that's happened since then.
Nationalists getting elected around the world.
There's a lot of positive things, also a lot of negative things.
But the first off, they're making a big documentary about you.
You did an 18 day water only fast.
I got to say, you don't look like a concentration camp victim.
You look, I'd say about five years younger, but it does look like you lost 20% of your body weight.
I'm just guessing.
You have really lost a lot of weight, but you told me that it was a holy man.
And then of course God, Jesus went out and would fast for 30 plus days or whatever.
But you were talking about some of the mental things that happened,
how it basically eats up all the dead stuff in your body.
So you kind of were a pioneer because folks can die doing this.
I think obviously people need to do some research for you to do this,
but you did it, filmed for the documentary.
Tell us about your experiences.
Well, for the last year and a half, I actually hired somebody to help me as a research assistant
to try to determine what are the benefits of water only fasting,
because it's a very trendy topic.
You have a lot of people that are going into the ketogenic diet right now.
You have a lot of people that are doing the intermittent fasting,
but I'm hardcore like you, Alex.
So I wanted to say, what are the benefits of water only fasting?
And that means no vitamin supplements at all, not even a grain of salt, not even a grain of pepper.
And that means only water, distilled water, spring water and hydrogen water is what I was on for 18 days straight.
And I wanted to monitor myself, monitor my moods, monitor what was happening with my energy levels.
There are a lot of myths about fasting, but of course it's mentioned 38 times in the Bible.
It's been used for multiple cultures forever.
And the recent research that's been coming out, this is done by major universities like USC,
stated that your body in 72 hours will start producing immune stem cells.
And that means, what else in the world is there?
I've been studying natural medicine for over 20 years.
There's nothing out there where you're going to stimulate and produce stem cells in less than 72 hours.
So what happens is the digestive system completely shuts down.
When the digestive system completely shuts down, your body is then able to focus 100% of its healing ability,
because we all have a self-healing mechanism, which we talk about as being suppressed by all the chemicals and the toxins everywhere,
allows your body to go into a phase called autophagy.
And that means your body seeks and destroys any abnormal tissue,
and it goes into a regenerative mode and actually regenerates, starts regenerating your organs and your body.
And that's been proven multiple times.
It was known with the liver and the skin, but now I was reading these big studies, mainline science.
It's everything, but basically the cornea is in the eye and a few other things.
Yeah, and it's still debatable depending on the length of the fast that you do.
I chose 18 days because after I was doing a lot of research on it,
it seemed like it was a fairly safe way to do a fast in a time period that people could do.
I've been a hardcore blob. I didn't work out for 10 years.
I used to be a big sports enthusiast. I stopped doing it, just got in a rut, gained almost 100 pounds.
I've lost like 60, 70, but I still have issues.
I'm trying to get better and exercise better water.
Supplements have really helped me, but when you say I'm hardcore, I'm hardcore fatty,
I've tried to fast before and in about two days I get higher than a kite.
My brain's working really well. I can't sleep and it's like so intense.
It's like a drugs. I can't imagine 18 days. I can't go more than two or three.
What happened to you? I mean, you were sending me nice little texts and things,
but like, you know, by like day 12, Alex, I hope you're well. I love you.
You know, I don't normally get texts from you saying, and of course you were obviously in a very spiritual place.
No, it's true. And a lot of people do do fasting for spiritual reasons.
And when I was resting and relaxing and meditating, it is the weirdest thing.
It's almost like you become connected spiritually to the world and you can like feel.
You were telling me that you could almost like see the pattern of the matrix, but it wasn't digital.
It was just like shh.
And I'm pretty clean. I eat very clean. I take supplements and I avoid all the chemicals and toxins and stuff.
And the first three days are always the hardest because you do have some cravings.
But then after that, I really was not hungry. My energy levels were fine.
It's a big myth also that if you fast on water only, you're going to lose a bunch of muscle mass.
I went from 185 pounds to 157 pounds during 18 days.
Now I did not lose, but about six or seven ounces of muscle mass.
Everything that I lost was fat because your body is in a stage of ketosis.
So you start running and fueling your body only on fat cells.
People don't realize that they have a lot of fat inside their body too.
So it's not just the fat on the outside.
The brown fat is really bad.
Well, any fat, if you live a, you know, aggressive lifestyle with an aggressive, you know, poor diet,
all that those chemicals and toxins are going to be stored in your fat cells.
So your body is going to choose what to attack.
I mean, especially,
But did you go through any detox because even if you're clean, the stuff in the environment,
because I've heard people like day 10 or so, you know, like purple pee, basically,
it's just all this garbage comes up.
Yeah, I did. I did. I went through detox, emotional detoxification and physical detoxification.
Where times where I just felt like sleeping for hours at a time.
And then sometimes it was a roller coaster ride.
I would have a lot of energy.
And then and then mentally, you know, yeah, I did get into those phases where it's just like you feel
like when I was thinking about you and I was thinking about all the stuff that we're doing and what's taking place.
You can almost predict the future in a way.
It's I felt like we were in the middle of like you and I have felt for a long time.
We're in the middle of a war.
But if you look around and you see the things that are changing and the subtle things just like, you know,
the stuff that's happening in Saudi Arabia with the princes and in the money and the assets being frozen and all these little things.
It's all the global forces are getting knocked over that that that the that they're getting knocked over in the deep state is going down.
But the way that it's happening, like taking the money, most people don't know that the majority of the money in Washington is from Saudi Arabia
and all the chemicals and all the things that are happening slowly are conditioned like the uranium one scandal and all of these, you know,
these hopeful indictments that are going to be happening.
It's it's it would be hard to just come out and say, OK, we're going to arrest Hillary Clinton and we're going to arrest all these people
because the majority of the population can't wrap their heads around how you take it down.
You take down the pillars of the corruption.
And so it's this conditioning that's happening with, you know, people are starting to say, wait, maybe there is some corruption in the government.
Maybe. And so we're actually making these positive changes.
And then they try to put it on us that we're corrupt, but then it turns out they're the ones that did it.
So they even prepare the ground for their own downfall.
You can see God doing it.
It's a mysterious ways.
The Lord works.
Yes, you can see God's hand.
We'll be back.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you.
But the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here, how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized.
My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at katiearmor.com.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at InfoWareStore.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at InfoWareStore.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from InfoWareStore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
So it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWareStore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best chloride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWareStore.com or AAA-253-3139. And your person of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on for your mind.
By the way, we're going to be live for another 30 hours.
34-hour live global transmission kicked off at 8 a.m. this morning with David Knight.
We've expanded the broadcast. We have the War Room with Owen Shroyer, Roger Stone, and I'm lining up getting the crews hired to go right up until basically midnight every night.
And that's because news is breaking all the time. We're not just here covering news. We're breaking a lot of news, especially when big events happen.
You want teams of journalists and researchers who know their stuff in place.
And so InfoWareStore has been built by you and I want to thank you all.
I'm just talking to Dr. Groot during the break about biome defense, the probiotic that took him seven years to develop.
And by the way, we've gone out and researched and obviously looked at other big companies and third parties to put out, you know, other brands that aren't as much.
But the problem is, is that they're just, you know, not even as good.
I mean, there are some private labs putting stuff out.
They're $200, $300 that are sold in elite laboratories.
And this system is better.
And I was talking about it.
Ours has been sold out for months, but we're still doing an incredible 50% off because I want you to try biome defense, 50 billion live cultures in each tablet for yourself and free shipping.
And it's not because we can't sell it, it's been sold out for three and a half months.
It's because I want you to see how great it is compared to other probiotics.
I want you to experience it.
Supermell Vitality sells out all the time.
50% off free shipping.
Never done this before.
During this 34 hour broadcast, Supermell Vitality, 50% off free shipping, biome defense, 50% off, all apparel, all T shirts, 50% off.
And we're not like stores at the mall that, you know, raise it 100% and lower it 100%.
We're talking shirts as low as $495, the average price, $998, $998 on designer.
Many have made in America.
I mean, some of these shirts cost us what we're selling them for, but I want to get info wars out there.
I want to get CNN as fake news out there.
A lot of these shirts are limited edition.
They're selling out right now.
Trump is my president 2020.
That's selling out limited edition.
They're all there.
The info wars in your face, really powerful red on a navy blue background to spread the word.
Molon lobby, ball caps, info wars store.com or triple a 2533139 vitamin mineral fusion 50% off free shipping, secret 1250% off free shipping, super blue, fluoride free mouthwash with colloidal silver and iodine 50% off and free shipping.
That's a loss leader right there.
DNA force is back in stock 25% off free shipping almost sold out four months info wars store.com info wars life.com or triple a 2533139.
Who can say that was all the listeners realize this?
And it's not bragging.
It's realizing how thankful we are to God.
How info wars and our guests in this whole system has been the critical chain reaction glue along with drudge report and a few other outfits that are globally leading against the new world order that is so incredibly evil.
But just briefly tell folks about biome defense and why it's so important.
The number one reason why it's so important is because we have an a planned attack on our digestive system by the pharmaceutical companies by the big agri companies in Monsanto.
They're killing the gut and they admit it.
They know they they know that our life exists because of the life inside of our gut.
And that's why it's so important and to have good probiotic system.
You're explaining this is custom made the only company out there the only production you've done for us explain it that doesn't have chemical spray that's kept basically live.
So anybody can pull up how to stabilize heat stabilize probiotics on and look at the patents and you will be completely shocked at what you're going to read.
So all the probiotics that are culture number one are cultured on animal products a lot of times they're cultured on dairy products a lot of times.
And then they're spray dried and there's literally three or four coats of the most toxic chemicals you can find that are sprayed on probiotics to stabilize them because people.
And these companies don't want to put probiotics out there unless they can say OK this is going to contain this amount of strains.
The thing is these are cancer causing chemicals that the probiotics are being sprayed with.
And that's why it took so long for us to develop first of all find a company that would work with us and create and culture the probiotics we want just like in nature like if you were going to eat and pick your own food.
We wanted to come up with a blend in nature they're not sprayed with toxic chemicals in nature you have the perfect balance in nature they're not cultured on animal products or cultured on dairy products.
The biome defense is the only probiotic formula in the world that we have every single strain cultured for us in a non dairy.
And I noticed it's gray or brown depending on the batch just like wine or a food it's real it hasn't been bleached out.
It's live we don't spray it with any chemicals it is dairy free go around and find if you can find any probiotics out there that are dairy free.
This one's dairy free the activity level is extremely high it has the perfect balance of probiotics that you need inside your gut and a healthy gut is a healthy.
By the way I know four people in this office with all these new gut syndromes and Crohn's and the rest of it that had irritable bowel people that worked out even tried to eat healthy.
I said you got to take probiotics and they said well I've tried them it didn't really help much I said try these all four of them said why is this different it's gone within two months gone.
But they also all lost a bunch of weight it was weird.
Well because what happens when your bowel is correct and you don't have all that yeast overgrowth in there and you don't have all those parasites or you don't have all you have balance that's what we're looking for balance you're able to break.
So that's why it's so important listen this really is 50% off when you do the free shipping on top of the store wide right now it is a right at break even with biome defense is super blue it's a big old bottle mouthwash.
So free shipping on it we lose money but in fact you know the crew said why are you doing this I said I want people to try it I want to sign up for auto ship.
So they lock in the low price so they keep getting it so they love our products so we get the 99% of the audience that's on the fence that doesn't buy from us.
We have a great audience you spread the articles you spread the videos we're changing the world if I can just get more than 1% of the audience to buy products.
Yeah I mean we'll be able to really expand.
So I mean these are lost leaders like people in the store stand try a piece of our pie and you're like well why because it's so good you're going to buy a pie.
I mean that's what I'm doing here a lot of this stuff is lost leader today the t-shirts is about meeting like minded people spreading the word infowarstore.com.
And listen now the prices are low we've got with with gold foil Moana Lobby women's cut for your wife or girlfriend we've got all sorts of other stuff.
I said 60 something shirts they correct me we got over 115 different types of apparel different shirts alone sweatshirts you name it.
All politically incorrect all pro America ball caps you name it infowarstore.com or triple 82533139.
By the way my kids will only sleep in the info wars t-shirts at home because they're so soft so I'm telling you.
Well we used to have the regular ones that weren't super soft but I said well I want to get the really soft cool kind so we've kind of converted over to that thanks.
So anyway so every night they're they're patriots and they're sleeping in an info.
We still sell the old designs that are like regular but a lot of them are real soft.
Yeah they love them they love them that's their that's their that's what they sleep in.
Well again folks also our local affiliates support those local stations become sponsors send them 100 bucks a month tithe to local news that tells the truth.
We've got to shop with the good guys it's an economic war they're trying to shut down America globalism tried we're rebooting the country.
But you've got to reboot the information warfare systems that are fearless and stalwart because we're just like you we don't want to be slaves.
I'm not saying hey I'm special look at me I'm saying I'm in a war we're hitting the enemy hard we're blowing the hell out of them.
I need more ammunition my artillery is smoking high and I'm running out of ammo here and I'm hitting the enemy right between the eyes but I need more ships to come in loaded with ammunition and I will put it down their throat.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals are you happy doing laundry with detergents are you happy paying high prices find your happiness with pure soap.
These all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48 month supply or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now earth friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best happiness is five star soap dot com why not put your money up the drain for a change.
See them at five star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog Cal Bend soap company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at five star soap dot com that's F I V E star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract L tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's info wars life dot com.
A free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-america, pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more patriot apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites,
which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff I said. There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, infowarstore.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarstore.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from the infowarstore.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
I want to be positive here. People always accuse me for 20 years or so of being negative.
But no, I knew that there was a problem people needed to know about so that we could fix it.
But now that globally, nationalists, populists are winning everywhere.
And everywhere, people are demanding non-GMO and they're demanding dangerous chemicals be taken out of things.
I mean, people are really waking up. It's a very exciting time to be alive.
But I wanted to open the callers to talk about the election, to talk about one year later,
what has Trump done that's right? What has he done that's wrong?
He's done a lot of good things that have been positive. He's done some things that he said he wouldn't do.
I mean, where's the commission to expose the vaccine damage?
Why is he saying go after WikiLeaks when they help get him elected?
I think it's a great service for our republic.
There are some issues, but I want to get your take on it.
The toll free number is 877-789. Alex, 877-789-2539.
Dr. Group and I will ride a little bit shotgun in the next hour.
When Roger Stone is going to be joining us, he told me three months ago, sort of Dr. Corsi,
because they go to dinner with some of the high-powered folks in D.C.
And we're not toting up for the power structure.
We are inside of it to figure out what's going on.
When I said these guys in the big lobbying meetings and things to see what's going on,
and the word was even then that they wouldn't let the AT&T Time Warner merger happen
unless CNN was spun off so they could continue its warfare against the U.S.
And that's the Obama holdovers in the Justice Department that are doing that.
So here's Google with a true monopoly. Here's Facebook. Here's Twitter.
On C-SPAN a few months ago, and again last Friday saying,
oh, we censored InfoWars at lunch. The head of Twitter, of operations, said,
oh yes, Congressman Wigley, I'm not joking, that's his name.
We saw that InfoWars was number one and we blocked it.
Their fake news that the Blasio is soft on Islamic terror, that there was a truck attack.
It was all true. It was links to the EMOM speaking out.
Well, now today, here's an example.
They say, okay, you got to spin CNN off because, again,
we want to keep it basically where it is politically.
The Democrats want their little propaganda outfit.
So I guess they can say, look, mom, I'm on TV, even though almost no one watches,
and it's a laughing stock, but that just shows how we get the news months and months
and months and months before on Dona Brazil, the stealing of the nomination from Sanders,
or the JFK files, or the fact that he went to the Middle East and had Islamic paraphernalia in Vegas.
I mean, the real reason they hate us is, we're really telling the truth.
And we figured out how stuff works, and we have the contacts, and that upsets them.
That really, really upsets the deep state.
So I wanted to get your take on that. The toll-free numbers, 877, 789, Alex.
I wanted to get your take on that. Where we are historically right now,
and then I want to talk about nightmare technologies that are being deployed to control us.
You've got 5G news that I heard you talking about a few years ago. Now it's mainstream news.
I've also got, like I mentioned, scientists are implanting tiny human brains in the rats.
I want to get into that as well with you right now.
And again, we're not being negative here, fear-mongering.
We're saying we should have respect for animal life.
We should have respect for human life, and we should have protections for both that are reasonable.
But the no-man's land of animal-human hybrids, the reason for 30 years they've been obsessed with them,
is because there's no law in that area, and it's the Wild Wild West.
And why I'm concerned is they're going public now, which means they're going from beta into operational into retail.
This is the full rollout right now.
And so, I notice this is the thing they really hate.
We'll talk about chemicals in the water to change this by design.
Show the documents. They hate that. Talk about human-animal hybrids.
They do not like me talking about that. Why is that?
They don't like the frog scenario, too.
With all the pesticide residue.
It's just a big plan for population control, and it's a big plan to keep people sick and keep people dumbed down.
But they're losing because people are smart, and they're starting to cleanse their bodies,
and they're starting to realize and understand that their environment is becoming toxic,
and they need to cleanse their body, and they need to become aware, and people are becoming awake.
And just like you said, what's happening now is the scary part, and not to be fear-mongering at all,
but you have to understand it.
Well, the Crown Prince of England, he just came out and echoed his grandfather, Prince Philip, and said,
we need world government to reduce population.
Well, they come out and say it. It's been the plan.
Look at what's happening in Hollywood right now with the pedophilia.
Everything is being exposed in just the right moment.
Yeah, why is that? Again, it's God.
It's God. It's everything. The harder they try to fight it, it seems like everything's backfiring more and more and more and more in their face.
And people, even the people that are so conditioned that they just could not believe that our government,
the Democratic Party, or Hillary, or whoever could be involved in any type of conspiracy, or any type of, you know, negative thing against the country.
I mean, you're starting to see the connection, the global, the world order connection with individuals going down.
I think, I mean, there's obviously some military action taking place that's not being talked about right now with all of our aircraft carriers deployed.
There's things going on behind the scenes.
You're an Army veteran yourself in special grips over in South Korea. Give us your take on that.
Yeah, I know because, I mean, we actually help a lot of those soldiers and a lot of those organizations out when they come back.
We help them with PTSD when they're suffering and the medical profession wants to put them on a bunch of medications and they're committing suicide.
But from your deployment on the DMC, I mean, is this all a bunch of hot air or is this serious?
I think it's a combination of both. I mean, when I was on the DMC, there was firefights happening all the time.
No one in the United States found out about it, but that was for the 88 Olympics when North Korea was threatening to attack Seoul for the Olympics that year.
I think a lot of things have changed and I think that world leadership is falling.
Look at what's happening in the EU. The EU is falling apart. The control mechanisms that have been put in place are starting to crumble down and it's because people are becoming more educated.
And that's why they're shifting to more technological, silent killers like the 5G scenario, like the mosquitoes that they're releasing everywhere,
like the artificial intelligence now, which you were talking about, how they're able to control free speech and knock you off the first page.
And by the way, mainstream news. Top economists, the EU has already failed at will collapse.
German government prepares for EU collapse.
Junker, the heir of the Nazi fortune, just threatened Trump a year ago and said, will crush America. What an arrogant piece of garbage.
So, you know, what we have to look out for and what we have to prepare ourselves for and have to be aware of is some of these technologies that we get told about years in advance.
Oh, by the way, we know 3G gives you cancer. That's been admitted for 20 years.
I mean, they know full well what they're doing, causes mutations, breaks in DNA, causes ant colonies and bee colonies to go insane.
This is all confirmed. So what does 5G do?
So let me, this just came out. This just came out the other day. 5G is a technology that promises to put the internet of things together.
And state legislatures are rapidly, because the EPA and the FCC, we obviously know those are all controlled by the.
They're forcing robot cars, 5G that actually looks through all your walls. It's really what it is.
It's basically, they're even talking about microchipping people.
No, Sweden's making you get chips to ride the bus. It's already here. Right. It is already here. And so the 5G...
See how once it's here, it's like, okay, they're making you get chips in 25 countries. Big deal.
Listen to this. I found out that Comcast is using private home routers for Wi-Fi hotspots and they've already installed the 5G network in there.
You can actually call up Comcast and you need to tell them they need to turn off their 5G. It's a hidden network.
So that means they're using all of the home routers.
Let me stop you, because they can get such great data communicating with all your other devices.
It's an imperial probe droid beyond the smart meter on your wall doing it outside that is scanning everything in your home and stealing the data just like the Google cars.
And that's the integrated voice communications.
Yeah, let's talk about it when we come back. That's right. An imperial probe droid.
It features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Nanosilver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
My fellow freedom lovers, Alex Jones here with a very important message. Secret 12. 40% off the best vitamin B12 out there from our research. Take it under the tongue. Simply amazing.
And the other really, really good news is that, yes, we're having to end the sale of 50% off on Anthroplex, but DNA force after almost four months out of stock is back in stock.
25% off our flagship product. Also, biome defense, the great probiotic, that is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out, but a lot of things are still at record sales.
White silver bullet, super high quality colloidal silver, is still 50% off and there's other sales that are still going, but they're all about to end.
Whether it's DNA force or whether it's silver bullet, it's all available right now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free, 888-253-3139.
Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostaguard. It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance.
InfoWars Life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there, but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend.
The Prostaguard formula does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium, and copper. Prostaguard is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day.
And from our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body. Get Prostaguard on your side today, exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Prostaguard is made without alcohol, chemicals, or other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gum and freshen your breath.
His antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 yards water.
Emmerich's Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine. It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Emmerich's Essentials. Visit infowarsstore.com to learn more. That's infowarsstore.com.
We're going to get to some of that historic night's broadcast for myself and Roger Stone in the next hour, some excerpts of it.
The leftists freaking out that they couldn't control us and run our lives and they weren't the anointed super-intellectuals that controlled everyone.
Again, these aren't even real liberals. I got arrested by George W. Bush twice. I exposed the whole neocon operation all the wars.
These are corporate shills that pose as leftists and then demonize trying to cut our taxes, trying to cut the corporate tax so jobs come back to America.
These are people that think they own us. I've got a clip coming up in the next hour of Democrats just savagely tearing into a black lady that dares to expose the fact that abortion targets African Americans unfairly that Margaret Sanger set it up to do so.
I played it yesterday, but it's so powerful. I'm going to play it again. We've got phone calls here. We're going to take now and into the next hour.
Roger Stone is going to be joining us riding shotgun.
Dr. Group, get back into the routers in the cable boxes, in the switchers, in the systems, have always been carrying this tech to watch and spy and gather proprietary information, dial into things in the home and literally bathe your home in this 5G while spying on you.
And again, it's all about forcing and on us, forcing. I told people 20 years ago that they had cameras and microphones and scientific Atlantic cable boxes. It all came out later.
Google now admits they're doing it. Samsung, in your terms of service, 20 pages in says, watch what you say. We have cameras and microphones and third parties subscribe to listen to you.
So the government through a subscription can just go through your house and watch and listen to you, Dr. Group.
That's pretty scary. They know every single thing about you. If you do use those devices, and I mean, even cell phones, I mean, we're these days with everybody in social media all the time.
I mean, it's, you know, they sell that information to advertising.
And that's bad enough, though, but this is breaking into your house, doing it beyond Big Brother. So tell us what you discover.
I just like to issue health warnings to people because these are serious things. And recently it's something that I've been looking into. And it's the implementation of the 5G.
Let's just stop. I have to interrupt. They're putting scene at news, all of it, years after we told you on screen, going, oh, Samsung records the chatter and watches it and listens and sells it.
Think about if your neighbor you caught in your corner listening to you, you'd kick their butt. But again, they just do it. They just do it. They're just doing it.
And I'm even thinking to myself, I don't even watch TV hardly. Why do I have these smart TVs in my house? Why haven't I even told my wife or myself go in and turn off the permissions, which I've done before.
But it just shows like an old TV breaks, you put a new one in, it's even creeping in on me. That's just how they do it.
Yeah, that's exactly how they do it. The thing is, when you can't see it, feel it, touch it, hear it, that's the things that make me the most nervous.
Because that's having an effect like Masaru Emoto, who was doing study on the effects of water. And out of every single thing he tested in water, the most damaging effects came from electromagnetic frequencies, microwave radiation.
Yet we still microwave our foods. We expose ourselves to massive amounts of electromagnetic frequencies.
By the way, I just thought of this.
Electromagnetic frequencies.
You're getting into how it's bad for us. I'm getting into how they're spying and dialing and everything.
Remember all the old movies where like you go in the creepy castle and the eyes are following you through the painting?
I mean, why do we put up with this?
But think about this.
But how about how we're vindicated?
But the eyes aren't following you now. They're radiating these things going toot toot toot toot toot.
So instead, it's like Zod's shooting lasers.
It's shooting a harmful microwave radiation into your body, which, look, the coming upgrade to 5G is likely going to lead to disastrous biological effects because of the amount of dehydration inside cells that it was caused.
So they're putting systems to fry us, just in our houses, and then we accept it and we get cancer and die, and they go, liberal, liberal. As long as you go liberal, liberal, it's okay.
It's more dangerous than that.
No, epsilon and Newsweek make jokes and say, why are they obsessed with pedophilia when they're all getting arrested and why do they care about getting cancer?
Well, just why do they care?
So think about all the news every single day about terror organizations and terrorist groups.
This is more dangerous than a terror group because this one kills you without even knowing that you're doing it.
Terrorist organization found in most U.S. homes. There's your headline.
Yeah.
But again, it's the magnitude and the organized evil of it when even 40 years ago when they were first coming out with cell phones.
I remember the top engineer over the program went public and said, this needs to be studied.
Our early studies show increased cancer in rats, and that was much weaker.
If they came and knocked on your door when you called for Wi-Fi for them to come and hook up internet access at your house,
and they said, do you mind if we put a small cell phone tower in your house to where people can access it if they're driving by and it's in access around, or what would you say?
And oh, by the way, the cell tower also dials in everything you're doing.
It also listens.
Yeah, we're putting a Wi-Fi system in your houses and making you pay for it while we're at it and spying on you. How's that sound?
You're basically hosting a mini cell phone tower in your home is what you're doing, and you're paying for it.
You're actually paying them.
We need to take this minute.
You just said and put it on the front of this because this is so important.
Cell phone tower in their house.
And the sad thing is they're doing it with schools, and they're paying schools to put these 5G.
Imagine if aliens landed and put little antennas in your house that slowly kill you and spy on you.
We'd smash them, but because it's corporations that we've been trained to love it and buy it, we pay to die.
We pay to be spied on. We pay. We pay.
Yeah, and they're just laughing.
They're like, they're paying for it and we're killing them, and they're going to be sterile because one of the things that your aunt Jenna does,
prepare to meet your maker, it will help kill you slowly.
So you know how everything is an attack on the brain, right? The fluoride, chlorine, bromine and everything.
So the cell phone towers and cell phones rattle the DNA until it breaks within minutes.
Attack four things.
Our health brain function dumb us down.
Integrity of our genomes breaks the DNA strands and our ability to produce healthy offspring,
which means it creates sterility again with all the phthalates with all of the endocrine disrupting chemicals that we're exposed to
that are all attacking our hormonal system to cause sterility with the glyphosate and all of the GMO foods and the attack on our gut and all the chemicals.
And the sperm counts down 90%.
Like we were talking about last time, they're going to be looking for people and people are going to be paying a million dollars an ounce for clean sperm.
I mean, like that's going to be a big time business in the future.
So anyway, it is something that people should be aware of if you do have wireless routers.
Look, if your city is not implementing, I'm not against the fact that Obama's a sperm bank.
How much would you pay for Obama's sperm?
We're trolling the media folks as a joke.
Okay, let's stop right there.
I want to go to some phone calls.
I got to do it.
Okay, let me read one thing.
The California Medical Association, the branch of the AMA wrote this in 2014.
Peer-reviewed research has demonstrated adverse biological effects of wireless EMF, including single and double-stranded DNA breaks,
creation of reactive oxygen species, immune dysfunction, cognitive processing effects, stress protein synthesis in the brain, altered brain development, sleep and memory disturbances, ADHD, abnormal behavior,
so they can sell you the mental drug, sperm dysfunction, and brain tumors.
Be aware.
And here's the bottom line.
20 years ago, I would read articles about cell phones within one minute breaking DNA in the DNA strands, and then there it is in the new report.
Yeah, I mean, that's been out people, been getting tested.
20 years ago, they admitted that a few minutes a day on a cell phone raises brain temperature up to a degree.
Yes.
It actually heats your brain.
They knew back in the 40s when they first got radar, they didn't think, and guys would stand in front of it to warm up, but then they'd be dead a month later.
The military put out memos saying, don't stand in front of the radar.
They'd heat their food up in front of it, too.
It's the same deal.
And now you can't sue the wireless companies because they already have all those government protections.
Can you imagine being in the Army Air Corps in 1946 and you think, I'll just stand in front of the radar.
Boy, it makes me warm.
Did he know?
What about Los Angeles?
All the scientists knew, though, that, hey, boys, don't stand in front of the radar.
It'll kill you.
Look at what's happening.
Look, here's another study.
Chemotherapy may damage fertility of patients' children, which means if you have chemotherapy now, off the offspring.
And we've always known the chemicals do that.
I mean, we are under a major effect.
72% fewer babies.
We're going to break.
We're going to come back, I promise, and go to Michael, Noel, Scott, Al, Danny, Jason, Kevin, and others.
Don't forget, store-wide free shipping.
We hardly ever do that.
Infowarsstore.com and 50% off on a whole bunch of our best-selling items.
Some of those are lost leaders now.
A lot of them are at cost, so buy a lot of stuff.
We need to fund our operation.
Super mail.
50% off.
Super female.
50% in for shipping on all of it.
Bomb defense.
Back in after months being sold out.
Still, 50% off.
That's a real 50% off.
We don't raise the price and lower and play games.
All apparel.
50% off.
T-shirts, ball caps, everything.
Vitamin refusion back in stock.
50% off.
Secret 12.
Super blue fluoride mouthwash.
50% off and free shipping.
DNA force back in stock after almost four months.
25% off and so much more.
Commit to go to Infowarsstore.com today.
And help fund our operation as we just sit here like sane people.
Raising the alarm and actually getting a lot of folks to listen.
The good news is, if humanity wakes up, we can, as consumers, change all this,
but not if we wait much longer.
We'll be back.
Hour number four.
Your phone calls.
Dr. Groove, it's the 34-hour transmission we're four hours in.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from Infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at Infowarsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine.
And you cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
And we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun
and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
The Information War. It's Alex Jones.
All right, Roger Shows and me, Roger Shock.
Anyone with us here in a minute?
We're seven hours in, Nico appointed out to me.
I was thinking of my own show, four hours in, but David Nice heard it at 8 a.m.
We're celebrating the big win, but also looking at the big problems we face.
We're also talking about the successes we've had with Trump,
but also the places he hadn't done the best job.
But Michael, Noel, Scott, Al, Danny, Kevin, everybody, we're going to you.
Danny and then others here in just a moment.
One of the callers wanted to get into Soros,
but he just hung up how to defeat Soros.
But right now I just want to point something out.
I'm just not out to get humanity.
I don't want to put many cell towers in all your houses.
They admit you have us all cancer, but I'm not in a trance.
So many other people are kind of in a trance,
and they think if you try to warn them, you're like trying to mess up their daydream.
And that's actually medically happening.
The average person has lower brain waves than they did just 50 years ago
and is in a near hypnotic trance.
And so we're here to get people to break their conditioning.
We don't have the NPR sleepy time.
Everything's okay. Stay where you're at. Everything's fine.
I'm like, like a record skipping or a car wreck happening.
I'm here to get you awake, Dr. Group.
No, well, if you notice what's happened over the last 50 to 100 years,
it's more of an attack on the children these days now
because what they're trying to do is try to prevent people like you from showing up.
And so they're trying to get all these kids mentally screened,
diagnosed with bipolar, diagnosed with mental disorders
so they can always say, oh, he had a mental disorder.
He was diagnosed and he was screened when he was eight years old.
That's what they're doing now. That's how sick they are.
They disrupt you. They give you all the red dyes, the chemicals, the electromagnetic,
the culture that the TV shows for kids have no attention span or mentally ill on purpose.
Nickelodeon, Viacom, admit to fry their brains.
Everything is a total attack. Let's go to calls here.
Let's talk to Danny. Let's talk to Dr. Group. You're on the air, Danny.
Hi. The nascent iodine, the B12 and the SuperMail are incredible products.
Thank you.
I would like to ask Dr. Group, are there any supplements or products that help promote
the growth of stem cells and would you consider making one if there is?
Well, the DNA force is probably the biggest product that's designed to do that.
But the fastest way to stimulate stem cells, and this was a study by USC.
Fasting.
We were talking about it earlier, is water only fasting.
I haven't found anything in my over 20 years of research that can actually stimulate stem cell production
as fast as water only fasting can do it.
According to USC, in 72 hours you can regenerate your entire immune system and it reboots itself.
Think about that. You can go overseas to Thailand to get $120,000 stem cell treatment
or maybe a $50,000 stem cell treatment or you can do it for $1.99 a day with spring water or distilled water.
And let me be clear.
And do a water fast and regenerate your organs.
Let me be clear. There's hundreds and hundreds of studies just on bio-PQQ alone that's in DNA force
that we're allowed to talk about because it's so powerful, but it regenerates nerves in some cases.
So an area that was dead, like your knee, your back, it may come back, it may hurt worse for a while.
I had a finger that was chopped off and was still numb up on the front.
I took DNA force after a few months. It came back, sort of tingling. The feeling is back.
So, I mean, you can actually say that and it detoxifies the cells.
So it doesn't grow telomeres. It keeps them from shrinking as fast, correct?
Yes. And I mean, the cleaner your body is and the more you detoxify and the healthier you become on a daily basis,
the better your body is at producing stem cells because your body has to eliminate pounds,
literally pounds of dead cells every single day.
Danny, you've got to try DNA force for yourself. As Dr. Grip said, the fasting is amazing.
Each person is different, so consult your physician or do your own research.
But you did like the other products?
Oh, they're incredible. They're incredible.
And I'd like to ask you if you could make the bone broth unflavored because for some reason the flavorings bothered me.
You know, we've got a lot of requests for a flavor-free, not strawberry chocolate bone broth.
And you know what? We'll do that for you. We're going to work on that, Danny. Thank you so much.
All right, Noel, Al, Michael, others are going to ride to your calls on the other side.
Kevin in Florida as well. Stay with us. And Roger Stone's coming on with the latest.
Read about what it'll do for you and your family. It is amazing.
We also have been sold out for three months on Biome Defense Super High Quality probiotic.
It's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really, really proud of it.
DNA force and biome defense, probiotic. Now back in stock, infowarslife.com.
And when you buy products from Globalist, it's an act of trading with the enemy.
It is an act of war. It is an act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles, and buy products from us.
And then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Next year's news today, that's infowars. Don't need a time machine, just need common sense to study the Globalist and their architecture, their program, their operation to know what they're going to do next.
That's how they ask, how do you know all this classified information? How do you know all these secrets?
Because we do the research and then we already know what's going on.
And then people that are in corporations, high-level intelligence operations, tune into us because they know what we're talking about.
And then we get information from them and it's a symbiotic symbiosis.
And why do you think we have next year's news today?
Because you figure it out. I mean, you figure it out and you have connections and you have the people that...
There are people out there that want to whistleblow and that want to expose and want to tell the truth.
And it's all about people that have this information that want to share this information and get the truth out there.
And that's why there's such a war to suppress the truth and suppress the people that are telling the truth and to try to prevent the next Alex Jones or the next person that's actually going to expose this information.
I love that. Next year's news today because it's so true.
You get the information as fast as we get the information and we get information every single day.
And now you're starting to see it in mainstream news. Look at CNN reporting on the fluoride.
I mean, I have all kinds of documentation support.
Why do you think CNN's come out now and admitted that fluoride causes massive brain damage?
I don't know why they came out. I mean, I think to a certain degree they're losing a lot of viewership and they're because they're not reporting on the truth and they probably have...
They are fake news. I mean, and people are starting to realize that hopefully. I mean, I know there's the CNN, you know, lifers and everything like that.
But I mean, come on, some of the stuff is just so far out. People are waking up and the consciousness is rising.
Some people are waking up. Other folks, even if they're on phones and computers so much, that it's all just more data.
So if you say, hey, this is important, this is going on, it's not like it's real. They don't then follow through is what I've noticed.
And it's something that just absolutely, you know, is a plague on those of us that are trying to get people to actually wake up.
Roger Stone's riding shotgun with us for the hour. He's going to be hosting another hour of the War Room with Owen Schreuer coming up in about 51 minutes.
And I want to go to Michael, Noel, Al, and Kevin that we're going to punch out of here and let Roger take over.
But Roger, we're going to have a bunch of compilation videos we haven't gotten to yet of the media crying on the night of the election, whining and then calling for violence.
We're also sending Millie Weaver and Gavin Wins down to the demonstration where hundreds of people said they're going to show up just scream at the sky is what it's called and just act like complete maniacs.
What is going on with the left here?
First of all, I'm toasting the first anniversary as so many others are of the historic achievement of Donald J. Trump, the most improbable upset in American political history and celebrating great memories of that night.
But also pointing out that you, like he, when he said, look, we may have won the election, he said that night, but the fight is just beginning.
Little did we know how right he was.
And you were among the few who anticipated the extraordinary efforts by the left to disenfranchise him to undermine his destabilizes presidency and so on in the spasm of their epic loss.
So and the fight goes on, but it is it is really it's it's a signal of an American Renaissance.
It's when the American people people finally rose up and said to the two party duopoly enough of your crap.
You know, they're they're tired of endless war.
They're tired of the erosion of our civil liberties.
They're tired of the billions of dollars of debt and borrowing that they load on our shoulders.
They're tired of immigration policies that leave their neighborhoods unsafe and their streets unsafe.
They're tired of trade policies that have given the jobs to a foreign nations and suck the jobs out of America.
So we've got the big the big Googles and Facebook's and Twitter's last week and video will play coming up later in the hour.
That's extraordinary saying we censored info wars at lunch.
Congressman quickly goes I saw him for was was number one on the suicide attack.
They would even say that they said that there was no attack in New York. Jones is fake.
The Blasio didn't you know isn't soft on terror.
And they actually say this is crazy.
And they go, yes, sir, we know we banned it.
We blocked info wars.
Now it's a US in a day story, sir.
And in live time, they're just admitting like they robbed the bank culturally that they're doing this in live time.
It is just absolutely insane.
And so now they want to block the AT&T time Warner merger, which is fine with me.
Trump's getting an anti trust guy in at the Federal Trade Commission.
But what about Google and all these folks that are monopolies and then use it to literally screw over the First Amendment?
I've got to be honest with you, Alex, I'm in favor of the AT&T time Warner merger.
I really think the arguments against it from a technical and legal point of view are incorrect.
I know what it is. They want the same power Google has to operate and bring competition.
Google doesn't want it. That's what I'm saying.
They're the monopoly. They're the new dominant group.
Why don't they get their nose bloody? Why doesn't Trump hammer their ass?
Well, here's why I think it's significant.
However, perhaps the new management that AT&T puts at time Warner would look at their owned assets CNN and make some leadership changes there.
Maybe they should take that back to being a journalistic venture as opposed to a left-wing propaganda front.
I think they should dismiss Mr. Zucker and he would probably show Jake Tapper and Don Lemon and Anna Navarro and the other briniacs there, the door.
So, in a sense, I would like to see the merger go through if for no other reason, for the selfish reason of cleaning up the most vicious, violent, vituperative, false attacks on our president.
By the way, they're so discredited. It's almost good to keep them there like Hillary, but I agree.
Justice be done and the habits fall. Noelle in the great city of Chicago.
Noelle wants to talk about year in review for Trump. What's your report card?
I'd give him an A plus for effort. I'd say on delivery about a B, but man, I tell you, he's gotten better than I thought. What do you think, Noelle?
Um, geez, in terms of a grade, you put me on the spot there, Mr. Jones, but I'd have to say, I'd say B minus A for effort.
Yes, a little concerned about the swamp factor of the District Columbia, but overall in terms of trying to build back America on the world stage, he's doing a quite good job with other world leaders.
But Mr. Jones and Roger Stone, it's quite fascinating to see a tale of two debates and the media perception of then candidate Trump at the bowels of the casino basement
of the Venetian hotel after one of the debates in December, the Republican debates.
And most of the corporate media hacks thought, and this is when I worked in Wyoming at the time, all the corporate media hacks thought that Trump's campaign was a joke.
No shot of waiting. They wanted Bush to speak. They all thought Jeb was going to bounce back and Scott Walker this and yada, yada, yada.
But yet at the end of the night, Trump was the last person of all the other morons that were candidates at the time was the last one to speak to every media outlet that was there.
And I saw it with my own two eyes and I thought at the end of the night, boy, Trump really does have a chance of winning.
I was about to say just the stamina and the entitlement of them trying to force feed Jeb with him with 5% rates in the early part of the election and still most of the money being given to them.
Just like they tried to force feed Hillary, it shows their Marie Antoinette level disconnect. Great point, Noel Rodgerstone.
Well, in that period, I think it's important to point out Alex, the most dangerous place on the face of the planet would be between Donald Trump and a television camera.
I mean, he is a master of the media. He knows the media that they're giving him is worth literally millions, including the coverage here at Info Wars and he plays to it like Strativarius.
And now the Wahhabists are getting their butt handed to him for Vegas and a lot of big things are happening.
Noel, thank you. Michael, Kevin and others straight ahead and Rodgerstone takes over the quarterback out of the Info War right into the war room with Owen Schreuer.
This is part of the 34 hour broadcast InfoWars.com.
Fire your fly swatter and get your bug assault today.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
877-886-3653, goberky.com.
Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
And throwplex, but DNA force after almost four months out of stock is back in stock 25% off our flagship product.
Also biome defense, the great probiotic that is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out, but a lot of things are still at record sales.
White silver bullets, super high quality colloidal silver is still 50% off and there's other sales that are still going, but they're all about to end.
Whether it's DNA force or whether it's silver bullet, it's all available right now at infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
How you like me now? How you like me now? How you like me now?
Roger Stone's co-hosting with us will be going into the war room for around 34 hours live here. We're like seven and a half hours in.
A lot of exciting things and surprises coming up today at infowars.com.
You want to be watching the live feed tonight? No, not for me doing an hour of Ask Me Anything reddit at eight o'clock.
Yes, I'm going to do that at eight o'clock tonight central. That's going to be good, but we've got some really good stuff coming for you.
Trying to get your phone calls right now so Roger Stone can take over and get all the meat and potatoes he's got, but not the group sitting here with me.
Look at this new article. Dems win in Dem states that voted Dem in 2016. Kit Daniels strange. MSM claims it's a setback for Trump as Dems sweep blue states.
Again, you and I were not even Republicans. We just see a real rebellion with Trump, a global rebellion happening.
Why do you think everywhere globalists are being kicked out of office? I mean, every week countries are removing globalists and then prosperity just comes in like day following night.
Well, again, I think the people are waking up because of, you know, everything that you've been doing and everything that all the other alternative media has been doing and people are.
I mean, look, like you said, you can find on the Hill, you can find in Reuters, you can find in CNN. I mean, even all the mainstream media are starting to report the same exact things that we've been reporting on for a long time.
I mean, the illegals that are coming out. I mean, how do you, you know, all of this stuff that's coming out is coming out in little tiny pieces so people can actually digest it.
And the more little tiny pieces that are coming out over and over again, that's that's conditioning. But this is more or less conditioning in a good way because these are all things that the lies of the mainstream media are being exposed.
Oh, there was not any illegal. There was my maybe 250,000 illegals that voted. Oh, now later on. Oh, it's confirmed by Harvard. There was a million over a million illegals.
You know, all of these, these different elections, people are coming out and they're saying we want change. Okay, we are pretty much living in some in a designed socialist republic.
And the only thing left to where we're not pretty much under the Nazi style regime is the fact that we still have our guns. That's right.
And now what's happened is it's like the Truman Show. He discovers that it's a matrix and there's this whole ruling class that knows they're engineering us.
You know, Roger and we're going to go calls. That's what's so fascinating about the election process was the WikiLeaks coming out and all the other documents.
And now that's made it safe for other whistleblowers to come out and to see the Democrats going, we've got to keep them desperate and poor.
They're starting to wake up. Let's use culture war to control them. I mean, they're like scientists messing with guinea pigs cold bloodedly, like a bunch of sociopathic vampires or something.
What you've got to do is go back and look at Julian Assange's incredible interview where he has asked several times whether the murdered Seth Rich is a source of WikiLeaks.
And he's very skillful. He says, our sources are under great physical danger. We don't confirm who our sources are, but let me stress.
Yes, they risk their lives. And oh, by the way, I, Julian Assange, am posting a $25,000 reward for information that leads to the apprehension of Seth Rich's killers.
Now comes Donna Brazil, who believe me, this book is a bombshell. The mainstream media is trying to ignore her confirmation of things that we reported here at Infowars.
Now you have a true Democrat insider saying everything we said about the Clintons, the stealing from Bernie, indeed the murder of Seth Rich, it's all true.
And the stealing of the money and the blocking of the hacking, not letting the FBI in. I mean, she's exposing a lot of criminal activity.
I think she did it not to sell a book. I mean, she called it Hillary's High Command stealing the money. She's doing it, I think, to protect herself.
Well, not only that, but it comes down at the exact same time that William Benny, who is the former counterintelligence person, who has been the most, I think, authoritative critic of the idea that the Russians hacked the DNC.
Today, it has a very hard science-based case why that is wrong, met with the CIA director at President Donald Trump's suggestion, which is certainly a step in the right direction.
And what that, of course, is that the evidence mostly shows that if there was a download of information, it was to a portable hard drive and out the back door, most likely, by the way, via a fellow named Seth Rich.
And now he got executed. So let's go there next. As our credibility goes megastratospheric and the mainstream media becomes a laughing stock, what's the next shooting drop, Roger Stone?
Well, Alex, I think it's important to recognize that they really want to silence us here at InfoWars. And this new expansion, when I was in Austin last week, I walked through the new studios.
They are going to be state of the art like no one has ever seen.
By the way, they've been videotaping the building for days. Do we have any footage of that? Does today be the day to air that?
Well, it's possible that somebody trailed me there to your secret location, even though everybody in the car was blindfolded but my driver.
Just kidding. And the best barbecue on the face of the planet, right nearby there, in any event, there is no question that the entire Dona Brazil narrative has shaken the power structure to its knees.
Is this Brazil thing almost as big as the WikiLeaks?
Oh, there's no question because it reaffirms so much of what Assange published has been true. Look, the government's narrative that Assange is a Russian asset is the greatest hoax of all time.
He's a journalist. He does what we do here at InfoWars. He is known for the authenticity and the accuracy of his reporting.
Never once has he ever been challenged for fabricating or producing something that wasn't 100% legitimate and therefore accurate.
The New York Times cannot say that, but Washington Post cannot say that. I was very proud last week when on his Twitter feed, he was among those who objected to the fact that I have been banned for life by the Twitter.
And by the way, you're going to fall suit on that. I'm going to play a video when we come back and then go to these calls, but Roger, have you seen the congressional hearings where they literally admit Congressman Wigley, I'm not joking, that's his name, says,
have you seen the InfoWars as the top story? He goes, sir, we banned it at lunch. He goes, good. How do we ban it? He goes, well, we're getting AI computers, sir. We'll ban them permanently, sir.
He's like, good, good job. I mean, it's like watching a Soviet meeting on TV.
Well, then they had the other senator that said, well, you're going to weaponize and got your back on that, too.
Sure. He said, I've looked at this report. There was a truck attack. The Imam did warn Balazio. Balazio, whatever, Bumbo, what's the mayor of New York's name?
Get to Balazio, Bumbo, whatever. I mean, this happened. That's what's crazy, Roger, is they say we're publishing fake news when we say the sky's blue, the sun's yellow and birds have wings.
Yeah, in all honesty, I think that that video, that stunning video, shows that they willfully violated your First Amendment rights is probably the basis for an extraordinary free speech loss.
And we have the Project Veritas with the YouTube officials at the New York Times liaison saying our main mission is to ban InfoWars.
Eat you guys in court. I know we're gearing up, but I mean, I'm not a litigious person, but the lawyers are just licking their lips on these. I mean, the problem is two, three year fights.
Yeah, we're going to, we'll be right back. Stay with us. We're going to play that clip coming out of you, Mr. Stay There Callers. We're going to go to you.
VirtualShield.com. Take advantage of our free 30 day trial. VirtualShield.com. You have the right to remain private.
America is an information based civil war. That's why now more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship. Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com. Be part of the second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super blue fluoride free mouthwash and supercharge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
And it's back, but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all the rest of it is the highest quality. Read about what it'll do for you and your family. It is amazing.
We also have been sold out for three months on Biome Defense Super High Quality Probiotic. It's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really, really proud of it. DNA Force and Biome Defense Probiotic.
Now back in stock, infowarstore.com. And when you buy products from globalists, it's an act of trading with the enemy.
It is an act of war. It is an act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles and buy products from us and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
I'm going to be a good boy and go to your calls of Roger Stone here in just a few minutes, but this is critical. It's not about, oh, we're number one, oh, they're attacking us. It's why are they attacking us? Because we're on target. We've studied their own documents.
They were so arrogant, they thought no one would study their blueprints and expose it. And then by osmosis basically, we built it. You came because people want to be free. We want to oppose authoritarianism.
The globalists call me a chump because I don't want to join them and screw people over. And what, build a planet of BS? We've got enough problems. If we were good, we might blow ourselves up. If we're bad, we have no future.
So again, I'm a selfish person. I feel a connection to everybody and the future. And I want my progeny to go to the stars. I want to be a winning species, not a species screwing each other over.
But then you watch these people attacking us for saying that an Islamist has killed people in a truck last week and that DeBlasio had been warned by a famous Imam who did it in person and on Fox News.
We were reporting like saying, fire hydrants are red or Roger Stone's wearing a blue tie or, you know, I've got a big head. I mean, or is it Nancy Pelosi can hardly talk?
I mean, it's so crazy what they picked to call fake news because they're still saying it's fake news. Jones is claiming that we stole the nomination from Bernie.
Jones is claiming that he Legals voted. They said that in the hearing that I made that up. So here it is.
Let's look at unpaid content for a second. Sometimes these fake accounts are pulled down, but the fake story takes the false claims of widespread voter fraud.
For example, generated by these accounts have spread thousands of thousands of times often picked up by legitimate news accounts.
What do you do to flag that? What do you sense is your responsibility? Before any of you answer, let me just notice this, that if we're asking is, are we still in this situation?
Hey, this is the long clip. This is the long clip. We're going to kill this clip and we're going to go to the one that we put together today with Project Veritas introducing, ladies and gentlemen.
Here is the clip of where Veritas is pointing out in the Google videos, all of it internally. They're targeting us now in Congress. Here it is.
We confirm suspicions at Veritas. It's not a shock to you, but to get the employee at YouTube on tape admitting that they do it.
I mean, you must be a threat if they call you out by name.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
And after just a short time ago, and I'm talking about when this meeting started on Twitter, if you clicked on the hashtag NYC terrorist attack, which is quote trending, bark with a red button saying quote live.
The top tweet links to an info war story with the headline and mom. I warned a blaseo about New York City terror. He was too busy bashing Trump.
I don't know what happens in somebody's mind or how dark their heart must be to say things like that.
This is a real time example of when we talk about this information being weaponized.
But Trump doesn't challenge these lies. He actually went on Jones's show and said,
Your reputation is amazing. I will not let you down. You will be very, very impressed. I hope.
How quickly can you act? And what's your responsibility to set the record straight so that the people who saw this know that it's fake news.
And at least at some point in time, it can't keep spreading like some sort of virus through the legitimate world.
That's something we're thinking about all the time because it's a bad user experience and we don't want to be known as a platform for that.
You have RT. You have Sputnik. You have Rupley. And then I think you have them feeding other entities. Info wars comes to mind where those are echo chambers.
The system self corrected. That shouldn't be the first tweet you see anymore. It should be a USA article the last time I checked.
But you saw this. USA Today. At lunch I did. And I also saw the system corrected.
They didn't call out Fox News by name. They didn't call out anyone else by name. They said,
When it comes to Alex Jones, we need people to scroll and manually find him and manually have to find that video.
We're not going to allow that video if it gets 10 million views to be on the front of the so-called news carousel.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Alex Jones.
Now in the full piece that's also on inforars.com they say, and he also claims that illegals voted, which we know is fake.
And the heads of Google, Twitter and Facebook go, Yes, we're banning him. We understand. Well, they just totally banned for life Roger Stone.
They say they want a good experience. It's a bunch of leftists threatening to kill and murder the president threatened to kill Roger Stone,
threatening to burn his house down saying where it is Keith Overman foaming at the mouth like a deranged homicidal maniac.
We're all genteely exposing them. And that's why they're crapping their drawers, Roger.
Alex, look, you're absolutely right. Look, I've been around politics a long time. I'm an Italian American.
And I'm from pretty tough stock. But when people threaten to, you know, dismember or disfigure my wife, attack my children,
when people say, oh, I know where your grandchildren go to school, threaten to kill my dogs.
I can't forgive that. I cannot forget that.
So we're subjected to this torrent of hate.
I know that in certain confines of Austin, you and I can't even go out in public without being accosted by drooling left wingers who want to spew insults
that we have to move around, unfortunately, with security, which is a sad day for America.
But the left can't. They have no other answer but shutting us up.
They can't win a debate with Alex Jones. They can't win a debate with Paul Joseph Watson.
They can't win a debate with Roger Stone. They don't care to debate. They just want to silence us.
Frankly, Alex, you're lucky I have time to do the show because my phone is ringing with lawyers who want to represent you in your lawsuit
after that stunning admission under oaths before Congress. You've got one heck of a lawsuit regarding your First Amendment rights.
I'm not saying the head of Twitter, the head of operations, yes, we banned him at lunch.
I mean, my phone is ringing off the hook saying Alex's constitutional rights have just been steamrolled by the federal government and they admitted it under oath.
That's an extraordinary lawsuit.
Why are they so honest about the censorship now?
Well, I think it's because they believe they have put a black hat on us through their, you know, mockingbird project type media stooges,
whether it is Megan Kelly or whether it is fake tapper, you know, the drum beat, oh, Jones is incredible.
Jones is incredible. Jones is incredible. Stone is incredible.
In fact, they're the ones who are not credible. They're the ones where you do the back of the math addition and nothing they tell you ever adds up.
By the way, we have to blur out Keith Oberman links on our stories or we could be kicked off our ISPs.
I mean, that's how vicious this stuff is.
So look, I use a curse word now and then I would admit that my Twitter feed was pungent and pugilistic and pretty blunt.
That's just the way I am, as you know, Alex.
But it was milked as compared to Oberman.
Well, it just in terms of the of the obscenity and dropping the F bomb.
Every other word is the F bomb attacking the president personally.
I mean, it's just he does appear to have Tourette syndrome.
Well, I don't know how how do you do the I don't know how well wearing a straight jacket you can you can type.
But somehow this guy tweets he's not able to to.
I know you've got breaking news.
So does grip on grip.
You're going to jump in here.
You're going to be hosting coming up in a moment.
I'm sorry, callers.
I promise you can kill me.
Barry and James and Michael and Gavin.
But don't get to you can all I guess you kill all me.
But just briefly have not been plugging hardly any.
We got free shipping store wide.
We hardly ever do that for the celebration of the one year anniversary of the victory of Trump at the defeat of the globalist.
Are we angels?
No, but we're not out to get you.
The worm has turned.
We're all in this together.
Free shipping store wide.
Patriot apparel t-shirts, ball cap sweaters.
A lot of it's made in America, by the way.
It's all 50% off, including new designer anti anti for sure.
It's only selling for one month info or store.com 50% off on super male vitality.
50% off on so many of the other amazing products that are on the website.
I had all the stuff.
Here it is.
Super blue toothpaste.
Super blue mouthwash.
What else are we not in?
DNA force.
Secret 12, vitamin mental fusion.
My fellow freedom lovers, Alex Jones here with a very important message.
Secret 12, 40% off the best vitamin B12 out there from our research.
Can't get under the tongue.
Simply amazing.
That sale is continuing.
Super male vitality for stamina, libido, energy.
That's 30% off.
That's continuing.
And the other really, really good news is that yes, we're having to end the sale of 50%
off on Anthroplex, but DNA force after almost four months out of stock is back in stock.
25% off our flagship product.
Also, biome defense, the great probiotic.
That is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out and a lot of things are still at record sales.
White silver bullet, super high quality colloidal silver is still 50% off.
And there's other sales that are still going, but they're all about to end.
Whether it's DNA force or whether it's silver bullet, it's all available right now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free, triple A 253-3139.
America is an information based civil war.
That's why now more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know
we're not backing down from their bully.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism and pro-freedom,
who at the same time is tolerating.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women,
as well as more patriot apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high-quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are.
And they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
Live in active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known
to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop
what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra-strength or regular strength
at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
By the way, we knew that Trump was going to green light going after the pedophile networks.
He tweeted that years ago, and Newsweek asked, why are we obsessed with pedophiles?
We're not obsessed with it.
Hollywood and the globalists and the elites and the British royalty keep getting caught,
including killing little kids.
And we told you this dam was going to break.
Now, in the hysteria, there's going to be some people who are going to make false accusations,
but a lot of them are going to be real, and I'm not saying what's true and what isn't.
But with Harvey Weinstein and others, it had been reported for a long time
he was basically raping women.
I know Charlie Sheen, his dad and his brother.
That's how I met him through Emilio Estevez.
He's been pretty wild and I haven't hung out with him in years because I don't do new drugs and things like that.
But Charlie was always a gentleman and nice to the women I was around.
I never saw any gay stuff or any pedophile stuff, but here it is.
Friends of Corey Hame say he accuses Charlie Sheen of rape, of sodomizing him when he was 13.
Then he wanted to have sex with Sheen again, allegedly, and Sheen was cold and said no to him.
I'm not saying these reports are wrong.
I'm also saying, though, you have to look when things like this unfold,
just like the pizza gate where you have this huge thing confirmed in New York and the Aleister Crowley stuff and all the rest of it,
then they focus the media over on this as a rabbit trail to get people off.
And I'm not saying that's happening here.
I'm saying I never saw any signs of this or any evidence of this with Charlie Sheen.
But again, I haven't really, I guess I was there with my wife before we got married.
I had dinner with him about two years ago and he seemed really in a bad place and we just left.
But I didn't see, other than him being angry about the media line about him, I think that was it.
But I don't want to get into stuff like this, but I'm reporting on all of it.
I know Charlie Sheen and I've been friends with him like 12 years off and on because he's politically involved.
So I'm going to report on the interest of the fact that I've been reporting on all the rest of it.
Well, I mean, how long have we been talking about corruption in Hollywood and MK Ultra and the programs
and the behind-the-scenes pedophilia stuff that goes on?
And we've gotten reports of what goes on at the secret locations in Malibu and throughout Los Angeles.
I've got to say, Charlie's the guy that told me about bad stuff and how there was Satanism and really going after the Scientologists
and things that he was the guy telling me how bad it was and exposing it, not the other way around.
So I think we should really look into this.
Yeah. I mean, now you're starting to see the exposure coming to fruition.
I mean, this is not a joke.
I mean, you have people coming forward and you have, you know, police agencies looking into it.
You had WikiLeaks, you know, with the Podesta emails. I mean, who knows how deep this is going to go.
But, you know, the good news is people are, the truth is actually coming out.
And we're seeing that in a lot of different areas right now.
It's just, it's a really good time right now to be alive and to see the things that you've known about that are being exposed.
What do you think of Corey Feldman?
I think he's very articulate and very well-spoken on these shows.
He comes across pretty credible.
Yeah, I do. I agree. He comes across pretty credible and, you know, time will tell how this whole thing pans out.
But I guarantee you a lot of people are nervous right now and he goes a lot deeper than Hollywood.
He goes into a lot of the political arena and I think a lot of people are running scared right now.
Senators, high-level officials.
By the way, we ought to find that clip of him on Dr. Oz yesterday or was Dr. Oz or was it Dr. Phil?
I just heard about it earlier in my ear that he went on and called and filed a complaint on air with the...
With the Los Angeles Police Department.
Yeah, I heard about that.
Alright, let's go to some calls. I've been really bad here. I apologize.
Roger Stone's riding a shotgun about to take over in the next five minutes. Ten minutes.
Let's go ahead and talk to Kevin in Florida. You're on the air.
Thank you so much, Alex, for taking my call.
I just wanted to say I'm a huge Trump supporter, voted for him.
But the one thing I think that he's kind of dropped the ball on is the whole indicting any of these criminal politicians.
Maybe Roger could elaborate on that, of why that hasn't been done.
I think it's not necessarily that somebody gets convicted.
I think it's more or less that the majority of the people know that the rules don't apply to everyone,
including the political elite.
And I think that maybe the indictment of one of these politicians,
I mean, pick your poison of who you think he could indict to maybe change that perception.
I don't know. I just wanted to get your take on that.
That's a good question. Dr. Grubb, Mr. Stone?
I'll let Mr. Stone answer that one. He's got the inside connects on that answer.
I think the problem here is obvious, and that is we do not have a Trump Justice Department.
We have a hijacked Justice Department dominated by Obama holdovers working closely with Rod Rosenstein,
the liberal Republican former U.S. attorney from Maryland,
whose political patron in the Trump administration is, believe it or not, Elijah Cummings.
This is the skunk who has given us a special prosecutor to look into Russian collusion
and no evidence whatsoever of any crime or Russian collusion exists.
And he is the one who thwarts any effort to hold the establishment types responsible for the actions.
I mean, look, in both the BCCI scandal and later in the biggest financial swindle of all time,
the mortgage meltdown, no banker, no rich person, no one went to jail.
Robert Mueller would conveniently arrange for you to pay.
Sure, Robert Mueller is as dirty as a public toilet. So why is he still in power?
Well, because I think the American people don't know this guy's pedigree and his track record,
whether it is smuggling bin Laden relatives outside out of the country the day after 9-11,
or whether it is calling off the investigation into foreign, national...
Is it Trump going after their back door with the takeout of the Wahhabist and the Clintons
and the Bush's inside pals funneling their Saudi Arabian money in to prop up the neural order?
I mean, is it Trump really delivering when he dynamites their operations?
Oh, there's no question. And I think the net results of these tumultuous changes in Saudi
are going to be good for the United States.
Prince bin Salman is not soft on Iran. He is not soft on radical terrorism.
Now, I have many, many, many criticisms of the Saudi state.
But this is a shift in the right direction.
Well, they play a double game. We know that in our dealings with them.
But right now we have a more tenuous common enemy, a nuclear Iran, because those people are lunatics.
Well, I think what Trump's saying is no more double games.
Well, and look, he's going to ultimately hold the Saudis accountable, and they have some explaining to do.
But in essence, what the young Prince has done is gotten rid of the Bush-era allies
who sucked up millions in...
Well, I mean, yeah, the man Prince that was against Trump from the Democrats.
Oh, he's in jail now.
Yeah.
Oh, thank you, Kevin.
The baloney sandwiches in there are really good, Alweed. Really good.
Let's talk to Barry in San Francisco. Thanks for holding.
Thanks for your time here, Alex.
Say, AT&T is about to purchase Time Warner, Big Mistake,
and it ties into whether you have the courage to go with LennonMurderTruth.com or not.
Sir, I don't know what you're talking about.
LennonMurderTruth.com exposes Time and Newsweek.
By the way, selling off half their operation now as carriers of government codes and the headlines all about John Lennon's murder.
Okay, listen, listen, whatever you're smoking, I want some of it.
Yeah, I like it. John Lennon's murder. We're cooking now.
I'm not. Okay. I think John Lennon was murdered.
I think the government was involved. They have, like, Strom Thurman's signature saying,
get rid of this son of a, you know what, because they didn't like him.
John Lennon was really waking up to population control. He was writing albums about Satanist and government.
I'm not at liberty to get into it, but I have talked to the family.
They contacted me years ago, and I'm just going to leave it at that.
Yoko Ono, Sean Lennon. I'm just going to leave it. I've never said that until today, but, I mean, they...
Well, Alex, interestingly, the security guard at the Dakota, where he was gunned down, was there for two months and then left.
Strange that he worked for the Central Intelligence Agency in the Bay of Pigs operation,
and he appears to have gone back on the government payroll.
He just happened to be the doorman at the time of John Lennon's murder. How interesting.
Yeah, so you say, do I have the courage, Barry? I mean, I've...
I like reviewed the people. What is it? The government versus John Lennon? The film?
I mean, I've been all over that. Yeah.
Okay, Barry. But thank you for your call.
I'm going to admit it. I killed John Lennon. I think I was like six years old, but I remember my mother crying. I mean, bawling.
That's almost the only thing that Mueller left out of his indictment of Mueller.
He should have indicted him for killing John Lennon as well. It would be just as ridiculous as the charges he did bring.
I just, the caller's like, you have the courage to expose. They killed John Lennon.
Well, of course, I don't know. It's crazy. Dr. Group, thanks for coming in. Thanks for having me on.
Great job. We got 50% off. A lot of the products and free shipping. That's the biggest deals we've ever done right there.
Those are some great deals for your health.
We need folks to really take advantage of this.
If the holidays are coming up and try not to gain too much weight over the holidays, eat healthy.
You look great, by the way. I want to get what this documentary comes out about how you fast it for 18 days on only water.
Roger Stone's coming up with Owen Shor and more on the War Room.
Spread the links to these live shows. That's how we get around the sensors. They hope you don't.
