Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
I'm just an average man with an average life.
I work from nine to five.
Hell, I pay the price.
Welcome to the Alex Jones show.
This Sunday, November 5th, 2017, I am filling in for Alex temporarily here.
I will be your host for the first hour, Owen Schroyer with you.
We will be hearing from Alex in the second hour, as well as our reporter, actually our
news director and sometimes reporter Rob Dew, will be boots on the ground at the scene of
the fatal shooting at the church in Texas here today.
Obviously, that will be the focal point of today's broadcast.
We do have some other news we may get to.
But let's just get you up to speed in case you are not aware.
At least 20 people killed in a church shooting today in Texas.
It happened just after 11 a.m. central time today, as the congregation was gathering.
I'm hearing reports of 27 dead, but there are conflicting reports.
These numbers do tend to change, at least 30 injured, so we'll keep you posted as we
get those numbers in.
I'm not sure how they can have those official numbers yet.
But we'll continue to monitor that.
The normal pastor of the church, the Baptist church, was not actually there today.
His daughter was, though, and his daughter is one of the deceased, including young children
are among the deceased as well.
Again, a church shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas.
There is Pastor Frank Pomeroy, who is normally the one delivering the sermon and leading
the congregation, but was out today.
So he was not amongst the congregation today.
However, his daughter was, unfortunately, is among the deceased, as well as at least
20 others.
Now, the FBI has taken over the investigation, so not sure what that exactly means as far
as what we're going to be told or how the investigation will be handled, so we'll continue
to keep tabs on that as well.
There are some interesting things, and even though we have to sit here and get through
the grief and the realization that many people died today, but we do have to report on some
things about it that you just don't even want to have to think about.
But these are the things that we do here at InfoWars.
Couple of strange things, obviously, you know, the pastor not in today.
He has not, I've not heard a statement yet from him, not seen him on any of the television
interviews.
We've seen a lot of other people, eyewitnesses, etc.
The story is, we don't have any information on the shooter either.
They're just saying lone gunman over and over again.
Apparently, the story is, he goes into the church, unloads, they keep saying, I keep
hearing semi-automatic rifles, but again, we've got no details about the actual firearms
that were used or any details as far as caliber or what type of weapon.
They do say that the shooter paused to reload.
So we're hearing semi-automatic weapon paused to reload at least once, and they're saying
that he pretty much hit, or I guess we don't know if it's a he or she, but saying that
the shooter pretty much hit everyone in the congregation.
Now, Sutherland Springs is a town of about 500 people, so most likely this is one of
those small towns where everybody knows everybody, all will be impacted by this, but apparently
the shooter goes into the church, unloads a couple magazines, and then is able to get
away from the scene, flee the scene, and drive his car away, and then apparently somehow
was apprehended five blocks down the road, and he is now, or the shooter is now deceased.
One interesting angle that we're looking at right now is the fact that this church records
all of its Sunday congregations.
Every single one of them can be found on YouTube.
So one can only assume that the camera was rolling when this shooting happened.
Is that the case?
Will we ever see this footage?
What is the FBI up to?
We'll have more of it on the other side.
Don't go anywhere.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best-selling
product, Brainforce.
Now Brainforce Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle, and we're now purchasing so much of
it from the major organic manufacturer here in the United States that we've been able
to get it for less, so I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off, and I thought I could
offer this for maybe a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is, a whole bunch
of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brainforce is for you, and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time.
It's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com, or simply call toll-free, triple-eight-two-five-three-three-one-three-nine.
Welcome to the Alex Jones Show.
It is Sunday, November 5th, 2017.
Filling in for Alex today, I'm Owen Schreuer.
We will be hearing from Alex in the second hour, however.
Alex did file some reports that are going to be key that we will be hearing in the second
hour.
I'll be with you for the first hour.
We'll be keeping you updated on everything that is happening in Sutherland Springs right
now, where there was a mass shooting, at least 20 people dead inside a church in Sutherland
Springs, Texas.
In the last segment, I said that I wasn't sure if it was here.
See, they have confirmed the shooter was male.
It's funny that we don't get any other details of the shooter that's already been reported
as deceased, was somehow able to flee the scene, flee the church after killing at least
20 people and shooting at least 50 people, and it's been reported that he pretty much
shot everyone in the congregation that day.
Pastor Palmer Roy, who normally delivers the sermon and leaves the congregation on Sundays,
was not there this Sunday.
His daughter, unfortunately, was among the deceased.
This is a church that records all of their Sunday congregations.
So one must wonder, was the camera rolling when the shooting happened?
Here is their YouTube channel, First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs, Texas.
Was the camera recording while the shooting happened?
Is there any footage of this shooting?
Did the FBI confiscate what could have been possible evidence that will no longer ever
be available to the public?
Interesting angles there.
We've got some other angles that we're keeping our feelers on right now, but considering
the seriousness of this event and trying to be as accurate as possible, we're going to
wait and flesh all of this out as details emerge.
We are currently waiting on a press conference that is set to begin here, I would guess,
within the next 20 minutes.
This is from, I believe, the Sutherland Springs police station.
I'm not sure about that, though, taking a second look with the piano there.
I'm wondering if this might be just a local school.
Regardless, though, there will be a press conference soon, and we will carry that live.
So stick with us if you want to hear from the official press conference.
I wonder if we'll be hearing from the FBI, if we'll be hearing from the local police
department, or if we'll be seeing what we've seen in the past, the local police department
with an FBI agent gleaming, glaring, standing over his shoulder.
So we'll keep you posted.
We'll just run down some of the headlines here.
At least 27 people killed at a Texas church.
Multiple people injured, including a two-year-old.
So again, the numbers have reached as high as 27, as well as 30 injured in Sutherland
Springs church shooting.
Trump has tweeted out, as well as Vice President Mike Pence, obviously condolences and feelings
and prayers with the people of Sutherland Springs.
Let's go right into this.
This is coming from the Hill.
Dems renew calls for gun legislation in wake of Texas church shooting.
This is actually, this is beyond politics to me, to be quite honest with you, because
what we can report here, which is what typically happens, that the Democrats immediately politicize
these things, they immediately blame the guns, blame the truck, don't blame the guy driving
the truck, blame the gun, not the guy that pulled the trigger.
But think about this.
I'm not even going to complain about the Dems politicizing this, because we already knew
that that was coming.
Of course, they want to grab the guns, really shocking.
But this is what is sick about this to me, and what the bigger issue here is.
Folks, think of how many lives could have been saved today if one person in that congregation
was carrying, if one person had his concealed carry permit and had a pistol on his hip today.
What about two people?
What if there were three, four people, four good Americans, members of the congregation
carrying their firearms with their concealed carry, which you have to have training to
get, you have to know how to shoot a pistol at short range, imagine if you had just one
though, just one, just one American citizen in that church that had his concealed carry.
How many lives could have been saved today?
So do the Democrats really not have this common sense?
Wow, here's another one.
Oh my gosh, this story was just published by Mallory Shelbourne on the Hill.
House Democrats slam NRA in wake of Texas shooting.
Now, again, folks, like I said, this just shows the Democrats true colors.
When we say that they want the guns, they want the guns.
Here's Kamala Harris.
Kamala Harris condemns senseless gun violence after Texas church shooting.
So this is what we're saying.
They really do want your guns, folks.
They really want to come for your guns, totalitarians, authoritarians, communists have to take your
guns.
So you can't have a weapon, you can't have a firearm and be a slave.
You can't be under thumb of a big government when you're armed.
That's the entire point.
So when we go out to, you look at yesterday's protest in Austin and you've got hundreds
of Americans out there, open carrying, executing their Second Amendment right.
By the way, don't tell Don Lemon or Jake Tapper, but guess what?
No one got shot.
Wow.
Imagine that.
Hundreds of people on the streets of Austin yesterday with all kinds of different firearms,
zero, zero people got shot, zero times with a firearm discharged.
And here are the Democrats the next day blaming guns for what happened at the church.
So this shows their true colors that they really want to come for the guns.
And that's the first thing they think of when an event like this happens is, oh, how can
we virtue signal and grab the guns?
That's what they do.
And it really just shows their mental makeup that instead of the just their agenda to grab
the guns, their agenda to target the Second Amendment, their agenda to blame guns, their
agenda to blame the gun owners of America, their agenda to blame the NRA, their agenda
to demonize anyone that has a firearm, their agenda to demonize, blame with any angle guns
and gun owners is at the top of their priority so that it supersedes common sense, which
is if there was one good citizen there with a gun, multiple lives could have been saved.
So what does that tell you about people like Kamala Harris?
That common sense decency and the Constitution are all put on the back burner for the agenda
to grab the guns, demonize the Second Amendment and demonize gun owners.
There's the tweet from Kamala Harris folks.
This is approximately two hours after the shooting happened.
Kamala Harris tweets out, senseless gun violence has torn apart another community.
This time in a house of worship, when do we say enough is enough?
I think it's enough of Kamala Harris.
That's what I think it's enough of you and it's enough of you demonizing guns.
And here's another thing folks, yesterday after the march was over, there were a lot
of patriots.
Honestly, I want to thank all the patriots out there because I know that a lot of you
have my back when I'm out there and you're watching out for us.
And some of them were kind of following me after the deal as I was searching for some
of these protesters to get an interview with them that were protected by the police.
And so we're walking up the block and a couple girls walk out, four girls walk out of the
coffee shop and they literally shrieked when they saw a gun.
They literally shrieked in horror and ran across the street.
I'm not kidding you.
They didn't even look both ways.
They could have been hit by a car.
But the sight of a gun scared them so much that they had to flee the scene even though
if there was a man with a gun, lives could have been saved today.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
InfoWarsLife packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWarsLife Prostaguard.
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance.
InfoWarsLife has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out
there, but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs
and extracts that our experts recommend.
The Prostaguard formula does just that, with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants
that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3,
selenium, and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day, and from
our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in
order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostaguard on your side today, exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico, where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfoWarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee.
And it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
Available at InfoWarsLife.com.
I want to plow into all of this.
I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from InfoWarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best chloride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, InfoWarsLife.com, or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Trashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
It's being reported 27 dead after a church was shot up in Sutherland Springs, Texas.
Our very own Rob Dew is almost there.
He will be reporting from the ground in the second hour.
We will also be hearing from Alex Jones in the second hour, and we are currently waiting
for the press conference from Sutherland Springs, which is actually at a community
center there in the small town.
I want to pull up this map for a second, guys, just so we can kind of show the people where
this happened.
I'm not familiar with these two roads, but I'm told it's kind of in the middle of 87
and 593, is that right, guys, 539 and 87.
And this is, well, it's just east, pretty much, of San Antonio, just south here of Austin.
Now they're zooming out now so you can get a better idea.
There you can see it just a bit southeast of San Antonio.
Now here's something strange, and I mean, you know, get your conspiracy theories ready.
But of all of the streets in Sutherland Springs, there's only one street corner where you cannot
get a street view, and that is right in front of the church.
So I don't know if that's of any significance, I don't know why that would be the case.
Did they change that?
Can you now have a street view of this church?
Because you couldn't earlier.
Interesting.
Well, there you go, there you can see the site of the shooting today.
I guess it's like jumping over that spot, isn't it, right there?
It's jumping over that intersection, isn't it?
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't know what that's about, but obviously people were trying to get a Google Street
view of the actual intersection where the church is located and Google Street view does
not allow you to do that.
It makes you jump right over that intersection.
So just thought that was worth reporting for whatever it's worth.
Now the FBI, it's been said, is taking over the investigation.
We are waiting for the press conference.
We will carry that live.
But just look at all the Democrats that are already calling for gun control after this
event.
Truly sad.
Truly sad.
The typical candidates, Kamala Harris, Mike Thompson, Richard Blumenthal, Dick Durbin.
So you have to ask yourself, folks, are these politicians so agenda driven to come after
guns, come after the Second Amendment, that they prioritize the agenda to get rid of guns
and to get rid of the Second Amendment higher than common sense?
That is the question I'm asking these Democrats.
Do you really put your agenda, your anti-gun agenda above common sense?
Because that's what you're doing today.
And you're doing it really within hours of the event happening.
So they don't even wait a day now to hop right on this deal.
That's how desperate they are.
But when you completely forego common sense in order to push your political agenda, now
you really have to wonder what these people are.
Why is this gun, this anti-gun agenda so important to these people that they can't even deal
in common sense?
What am I talking about?
What is the common sense here?
50 people in a church, apparently 50 unarmed people all get shot by reportedly a lone gunman.
Let's say that you had one citizen in that church that had his concealed carry and was
carrying today when the shooter entered the building and started shooting.
Well, there would have been a fight, wouldn't there have been?
There would have been a little pushback and the shooter wouldn't have been able to go
in there and shoot unabated.
But that isn't the thought process of these Democrats.
It's oh my gosh, if only we could have gotten rid of the gun in the first place.
If only we could have signed that legislation.
If only the NRA didn't exist.
If only we could have pushed through all of our anti-gun legislation years ago.
If only the Republicans didn't stand up for the Second Amendment.
If only, if only, if only these people live in an if only world.
They don't even live in reality.
No, the real if only folks is if only one or two members of that congregation would have
had their concealed carry and a pistol on them today.
Multiple lives would have been saved.
Probably 100% without a doubt.
Now here's a video from the church's YouTube channel.
They do record all of their Sunday congregations.
So this begs the question, was the camera rolling and recording when this shooting happened,
when the shooter entered the grounds?
And if so, what comes of that footage?
Does the FBI hide it forever?
Has the FBI already confiscated it?
Does the church have any say in their own intellectual property?
Or does the FBI get to control that?
That's what we will find out as we are waiting on the press conference.
But here you can see the first Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs YouTube channel.
They do upload all of their sermons.
And I will tell you, obviously, these views have skyrocketed just since we've been on
air, where most of these videos were at about 200, 300 views.
Now you can see the most recent up over 2,000.
And obviously, everyone's concern is with the people of this community.
It's going to be tough going to school tomorrow, I'm sure, for this community.
It's going to be tough going to church even in this community and the other local churches.
But I wonder, because see, I have a feeling that the people in this community are thinking,
I'm going to take my gun with me from now on.
I don't think the members of this congregation now, they can speak for themselves, but I
feel like the first gut instinct reaction to this was, oh my gosh, I wish there was more
gun control.
Oh my gosh, I wish there was more gun legislation.
Oh my gosh, I wish the Democrats shut down the NRA and shut down the Second Amendment.
Because people still live in reality and they know that millions and millions of guns have
already hit the market and they don't go anywhere, folks.
Guns are very durable and they stick around.
Those guns aren't going anywhere and no matter what legislation any government wants to pass,
those guns will still be on the street and criminals will still break the law.
What was that last story, guys, as we go to break?
Yep, Democrat Senator calls for gun control after shooting before shooter even identified.
Again, it just shows you, folks, the agenda to take the guns, the anti-gun agenda, the
anti-Second Amendment agenda is more important to these people than common sense.
They've shown their true colors, we aren't conspiracy theorists, they really do want
the guns.
If they want you to have a gun, what do you think happens when they take the guns more
church shootings?
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Info Wars biome defense
probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at InfoWarsLife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the
public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the InfoWars.
America is an information based civil war.
That's why now more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these
globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism and pro-freedom
who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Geverson's class of liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote
freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as
well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
My fellow freedom lovers, Alex Jones here with a very important message.
Secret 12, 40% off the best vitamin B12 out there from our research, take it under the
tongue, simply amazing.
That sale is continuing, supermelt, vitality for stamina, libido, energy, that's 30% off,
that's continuing.
And the other really, really good news is that yes, we're having to end the sale of 50%
off on Anthroplex, but DNA force after almost four months out of stock is back in stock,
25% off our flagship product.
Also biome, defense, the great probiotic, that is 25% off as well.
So a lot of things are selling out, but a lot of things are still at record sales.
Like silver bullets, super high quality colloidal silver is still 50% off and there's other
sales that are still going, but they're all about to end.
Whether it's DNA force or whether it's silver bullet, it's all available right now at infowarslife.com
or by calling toll free, triple A 253-3139.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to infowarsstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats,
dairy products, desserts, and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Rights is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Well, I've got it because it's simply the truth.
Harvest Rights are now calling for more church shootings.
That's what they're doing today.
Yes, go ahead, tell your friends, tell your family.
Dems aren't calling for gun control, folks.
You can't control an inanimate object, it doesn't do anything.
You can sit the gun down on the table, there's your gun control.
It's not going anywhere, it's not shooting anybody, it's doing nothing.
Dems aren't calling for gun control today, folks, in wake of the church shooting in Sutherland,
Springs, Texas.
No, Dems aren't calling for gun control.
That's a misnomer, that's a misleading headline.
What Dems are calling for today is more church shootings.
That's the truth.
That's what the Dems are calling for.
More church shootings, more innocent victims, more tyranny, more criminals roaming the streets.
Less of you being able to defend yourself.
That's what the Dems are calling for today.
No gun legislation, zero, zippity-doodle, could have stopped what happened today.
No gun control legislation could have stopped what happened in Vegas.
But the Democrats don't understand that, do they?
They don't understand the concept that criminals break the law.
It's funny that they wouldn't understand that, considering most of them are criminals.
You'd think they would understand that mindset, but it seems to skip them.
Here's Senator Bob Casey.
In addition to offering my prayers and thoughts, I also believe Congress must take action on
gun violence.
Really?
How do you take action on gun violence?
I think we already have actions for gun violence.
Senator Bob Casey, it's called arrest, it's called a justice system.
And again, you know, actually this is amazing.
There were, of all of the footage that I went through of the Vegas shooting, just the people
shooting on their cell phones, do you realize how many times you could hear people in these
videos saying, I wish I brought my gun?
Do you realize how many people were fleeing the scene saying, dang it, why didn't I bring
my gun today?
I mean, what do you think you wish you had when somebody walks into your church and starts
shooting?
The first thing you want is, do you think the first thing you wish for is gun legislation?
Oh my gosh, there's a shooter in my church, gun legislation, we need gun legislation.
Or do you think it's, oh my gosh, there's a shooter in my church, I wish I had a gun.
And if you had a gun, you'd be reaching for the gun and you'd be pulling out and you'd
be putting your training into execution and you'd take down the shooter and then you'd
be a hero, but you're not allowed to be a hero.
You're not allowed to defend yourself, you're not allowed to defend your church, no, the
Democrats are going to do that for you by taking the guns, see?
And it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter that all these people usually acquire these firearms
illegally to begin with, it doesn't matter that there's already millions and millions
of guns out on the streets already, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter that the government,
the FBI, the CIA have already been caught running guns illegally, none of that matters,
we need more gun control, that's what the Democrats said.
So congratulations to all the Democrats that showed their true colors today and called
for gun control after an event where if there would have been a citizen on the scene with
a gun, a good citizen with a gun, with his concealed carry, multiple lives would have
been saved today, that is undoubtable.
We are currently waiting right now for the press conference in Sutherland Springs, Texas,
but let that sink in folks, this is the truth, this is the truth, the Democrats, they are
not calling for gun control, they're calling for more church shootings.
That's how we spin this, that's how we put this right back on them.
You want to call for gun control, we'll call it what it really is, more church shootings.
Yeah, Dick Durbin tweets out, this guy is such a piece of work, the shooter turned his
gun on people, kids in a place of worship, since when did these people care about place
of worship if it's not a Muslim, America is in the grips of gun violence crisis, really
actually the numbers are down unless you're in Chicago, a gun free zone, Congress must
act, again, what could Congress have done for the people in that church folks, this
is how loony these people are, this is how deranged and agenda driven these people are,
that they sacrifice and forfeit common sense for the agenda.
Can you pull up Dick Durbin's tweet again for me real quick?
Dick Durbin says, America is in the grips of a gun violence crisis, these same Democrats
who will say we're in the grips of a gun violence crisis will never ever once say anything
about radical Islamic terror.
This is the Democrat mind, radical Islamic terror doesn't exist, in fact, we've got
a clip from Fareed Zakaria, you know what, let's go to this clip right now, let's go
to Fareed Zakaria, because it's all the same mindset folks, it's all the same deranged
mindset, here's Fareed Zakaria apologizing for radical Islamic terror.
This week's tragic terror attack in New York was the kind of isolated incident by one
troubled man that shouldn't lead to grand generalization, pause it right there, one isolated event,
he tells you, Fareed Zakaria on fake news CNN, tells you one isolated event, no one
has ever said Allah al-Akhbar and stabbed anyone ever before, oh wait, it's happened
dozens of times, no one's ever said Allah al-Akhbar and run people over on the streets
with a vehicle, oh wait, that's happened in multiple countries, and then here's Fareed
Zakaria telling you it's a lone event, but then he discredits himself with what he says
next, pause it right there, he says it's a lone event, then references 9-11 and references
jihadi events, so he contradicts his own self in this clip, folks, I'm telling you, you
have to ask yourself, are these people that corrupt or are they really that stupid?
I mean, Fareed Zakaria, I mean forget the fact he looks like the clown out of the Saw
movie series, but don't you see folks, oh so again, a guy runs people over, chants Allah
al-Akhbar, and then Fareed Zakaria says this is just a lone event, this is just a lone
event, we shouldn't generalize people because of a lone event, then references 9-11 when
we went to war against radical Islamic terror because they hate our way of life, he doesn't
mention that because that would go against his theory that this was a lone event, Rob
Dew has just entered the scene at the press conference in Sutherland Springs, he just
flashed across the camera, but don't you see how this thought pattern is the same for
all of them?
You can't offend anyone, you don't even want to offend anyone because you're scared of
your own shadow, you're so politically correct and scared of your own shadow that you can't
even report the truth, but then it shows how one narrow visioned you are in your own PC
mind, censored mind that you refute your own statement in the very next statement.
So that's enough of Fareed Zakaria for now, and notice also, so you have all these radical
Islamic terrorist acts, no calls for immigration control, no calls for control over the visa
diversity program, doesn't matter how many immigrants stab one, how about this one, deadly
Tennessee church shooting, Sudanese immigrant arrested, FBI launches civil rights investigation,
a black Sudanese immigrant shoots up people in a church, the mainstream media ignores
it, no call for immigration control by the Democrats, it's guns, guns, guns, guns, so
today the Democrats called for more church shootings in America in their agenda to take
the Second Amendment, we will not stand for it.
If you go to infowarstore.com and get game changing, amazing products, we've been sold
out of DNA force for almost four months, these ingredients are nutraceutical grade, the highest
quality, the bio-PQQ all of it, it's 25% off, the truck got in this morning, and it's back
but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all the rest of it, it's the highest
quality, read about what it'll do for you and your family, it is amazing.
We've also been sold out for three months on biome defense, super high quality, probiotic,
it's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock but for a very limited time, so you get the
highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there, we're really, really proud of it, DNA
force and biome defense, probiotic, now back in stock infowarstore.com and when you buy
products from globalist, it's an act of trading with the enemy, it is an act of war, it is
an act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles and buy products from
us and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials, we are proud
to bring you a collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com including
non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, deat free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint
mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant, Emmerich's
Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body, we carefully select
pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic,
our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life, truly
feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality, feel good
about using Emmerich's Essentials, start saving money and stop exposing yourself and
your family to toxic ingredients, visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new Emmerich's Essentials
line of organic products, that's infowarstore.com.
Thousands of years ago there was a basic form of chivalry, our ancestors would hear the
drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense,
60 years ago when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums
of their own, air raid sirens, but in the 21st century there are silent weapons for
quiet war, pathogens added to the food and water, to the lining of plastics that destroy
our vitality, turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death, I personally counter
this onslaught with Anthroplex, Anthroplex is designed with known organic concentrated
herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body,
discover why Anthroplex has turned so many heads today, it's time for us to take our
bodies back into our own hands and it starts at infowarslife.com with Anthroplex.
Vitamin mineral fusion, visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemist, we have worked for
years with our chemist and scientist to create the most powerful and affordable, great tasting
multivitamin formula available, vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded
with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely
needs, in the history of infowars life we brought out a lot of amazing products like
survival shield x2, super male vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system
and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects, this formula is the
platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important,
the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard, that means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured you're
finding the tip of the spear in the info war, that's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral
fusion, take action now before we sell out, you're listening to the alex jones show
welcome back to the alex jones show, filling in for alex, today i am oen
shroyer, we will be hearing from alex jones on the other side of this hour, so be sure
to stick around from the latest reports from alex jones, of course he will be back tomorrow
as well for the day show, we've got rob do on the scene right now, he is in southerland
springs texas, he is at the community center where they're about to give the press conference,
we're continuing to monitor that situation, but folks in case you haven't noticed info
wars has reporters all over, we're putting reporters on the ground at all types of events,
this is how we're able to get rob down to the press conference here immediately because
of your support at infowarsstore.com, in fact right now as we're doing this broadcast we
are having our biggest studio being assembled just across the door from me right now, another
studio that alex is about to launch as part of his expansion plans for info wars that
you're seeing the fruits of already, but it's only possible when you go to infowarsstore.com
and we make it a win win win situation at infowarsstore.com by giving you great specials
on great products, brainforce plus folks is still 50% off, take advantage of brainforce
plus, the reviews that I get from brainforce plus are honestly unbelievable, we had another
lady calling to the show yesterday, actually it was a nice fella who called him in the
show yesterday who talked about his girlfriend after being in a serious car accident struggling
with brain activity, started taking brainforce and he noticed that her brain activity was
kicking up again and when she was taking brainforce she did better remembering names
and dates and places, something she was struggling with before, these are the types of reviews
we get from products like brainforce, DNA force and some of our other breakthrough products
at infowarsstore.com and brainforce is still 50% off, DNA force, you're hearing more about
telomere health, well when you hear about that think DNAforce at infowarsstore.com, that
is also 25% off, one of our best, most groundbreaking products is DNAforce at infowarsstore.com,
25% off, I've also got a little intel here folks on some of the other specials that are
going on right now, 50% off silver bullet, that is set to end soon, so if you were thinking
about taking advantage of the silver bullet special, you're going to want to get to infowarsstore.com
and take advantage of that as soon as possible because that is ending soon, also ending soon
is survival shield X2 for 40% off, this is a must have household product, I think this
is one of the biggest game changers on our website, at least for most people, for me
included, survival shield X2, 40% off, but that special will be ending soon as well,
so be sure to take advantage of that before that ends and we've also got super male vitality
for 30% off, that is also ending soon, so get to infowarsstore.com, great health supplements,
all kinds of stuff that you can purchase there to support this platform, I remember just
a few years ago when I would go to the infowarsstore, the selection was probably a quarter of what
it is now, we have seriously expanded our store and we plan to continue that expansion
as we are expanding our broadcast here with your support at infowarsstore.com, so be sure
to go to infowarsstore.com and take advantage of all of these specials before they sell
out, alright, we're still keeping tabs on Rob Dew as he is at the community center in
Sutherland Springs, Texas where they're about to give a press conference, so a crew, if
you guys could just keep me posted on that situation, it looks like they're still building
the scene there, they're still getting some mics set up, oh there's Rob Dew, he enters
the fold here, I think Rob is either live now or about to go live, that's Rob Dew there
sitting right in front of the camera, so Rob Dew is obviously covering this live himself,
guys is that on our Facebook channel, I'm gonna have the crew back there get the exact
area where you can find that of all of our things, of course we've got the Twitter, real
Alex Jones, infowars, we've got the Facebook, we've got the YouTube, we've got everything
folks and trying to figure out where you can find Rob Dew's live coverage of that.
So Rob Dew is live somewhere right now, there he is right there, okay so you can find Rob
Dew's broadcast also on the Alex Jones channel on Facebook, so we'll be covering that as
well as hearing from Alex himself in the next hour, so be sure to stay tuned to that.
I want to mention one thing, I touched on this in a segment earlier, now this is actually
a story from September, most people have probably never even heard about this story.
Deadly Tennessee church shooting, Sudanese immigrant arrested, FBI launches civil rights
investigation, so this shooter went into a small town church in Tennessee, Emmanuel
King got a Samson from Sudan and shot up the church, but it was never reported, you never
saw a lick of this on television news, now this story is from Fox News but folks I'm telling
you I'm honoring all Fox News, even Fox News barely even gave this any attention on their
television shows, and today when they're all going back remembering all of the mass shootings
that have happened, they mentioned the Vegas shooting, they mentioned the shooting of the
young guy that went into the church, I think that was in Charlottesville, I can't even remember
there's so many, was that Charlotte, I can't even recall the guy's name now either, but
they mentioned all of these shootings and somehow they just left this one out, they
just magically, magically just left this one out of the Sudanese immigrant going into the
church and shooting people, why, I wonder why they left that out, so that was strange
to me and I wanted to pull that story today because I noticed that none of the news reporting
is reporting on this story, which you would think you would report on, it's right along
the lines to church shooting, to gunmen, but they don't report on it, I wonder if that's
because the killer in that situation was a immigrant from Sudan, I'm not sure but nobody
is mentioning that, so again folks if you're just joining us, the big news today is being
reported 27 people have died in a mass shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas and at least
30 others injured, the Democrats are already calling for guns, that's how it's being reported,
the Democrats are actually calling for more short shootings because they don't want you
to be able to defend yourself in your church if somebody like this came in and started
shooting, note the answer is learn how to use a gun, get your concealed carry and protect
yourself when you're in a situation like this, and they always ignore the fact, the Democrats
always ignore the fact that in the gun free zones, just use Chicago as an example, more
shootings than in any other city, more gun violence than anywhere else is in the gun
free zones in Chicago, amazing how gun free zones don't seem to stay gun free.
Alright, well I'll tell you what we're going to do here, I'm going to just hit a couple
other headlines before this news conference gets started and before we hear from Alex
Jones on the other side, you know, Weinstein Gate continues to crumble, this was a story
from Business Insider today, all the men who have accused Kevin Spacey of sexual misconduct,
it started with Anthony Rapp saying he was assaulted by Spacey when he was 14, now there's
a whole list of them and I've even heard reports that Spacey is seeking pedophilia therapy,
think about that.
Now if you asked one Alex Jones what pedophilia therapy would be, he would point to a ball
peen hammer upside the head, but somehow Spacey, you know, I'm a pedophile, I just have a problem,
I just need therapy, no dude you are a sick, sick man that actually acted out your pedophilic
desires, that's what people are saying, you don't go to therapy for that, you get arrested
I guess unless you're Kevin Spacey, but I have a bad feeling that this is only going
to get worse for Kevin Spacey and for Hollywood, I don't know if you've heard about this one
yet, but Rand Paul's neighbor decided to beat him up, Rand Paul, I mean you want to talk
about really a centrist, libertarian centrist, you got to think about Rand Paul, but his
neighbor Renee Boucher decided he was going to assault him and try to beat him up, so
that's nice though, I mean you know, if you're a Republican you deserve to get beat up, especially
because you won't take the guns from people, oh my goodness, you know what, House GOP quietly
revises tax bill to tax income at higher rates over time, folks if you've seen this tax bill
it's actually a Democrat looking tax bill, this tax bill is a tax bill that the left
would enjoy, rejoice and embrace, I wonder if all the Trump haters that want to tax
the rich have seen this tax bill, will they come around on Trump, of course not, so then
he's going to do something else.
Dr. Grip, you developed living defense for us, it took you over a year to do it, why
is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most,
I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's
harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism, right now with all the refugees
spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere, these are all
parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff you said, there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood, I recommend
doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
Alright well I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today, I just
came back in yesterday, living defense, infowarslife.com and folks you can't lose, it's full of stuff
that's great for your body period and you support the broadcast infowarslife.com, thank
you Dr. Grip from the Global Healing Center, thank you so much for all your work sir on
this great product.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the Info War, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarsore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50, listeners have been
requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that
you need each month.
Just go to infowarsore.com, select your favorite product or products.
Click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com
this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on orders above $50 and all
out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us on this original worldwide broadcast Sunday.
Hard to believe already November 5th, 2017, we're going to be live here for the next
two hours.
Owen Schreuer is going to be joining me covering the massive failure of the George Soros funded
communist uprising that was supposed to begin yesterday culminating in the next few weeks
with the overthrow of our republic and the driving of President Trump from office.
We're going to be detailing that coming up with Owen who's going to be joining us at
the bottom of the hour.
In the meantime, we're not just seeing democratic revolutions in Catalan, Spain and Raikia
Vek, Iceland and Austria and Czech Republic and elections in the UK and Brexit and Australia
and Brazil and all over Africa and Latin America and Asia.
We're seeing major rebellions against the globalist program in the most unlikely of
places, Saudi Arabia.
The first trip that Trump was involved in eight, nine months ago when he first got in
office was to Saudi Arabia, an old famous orb thing he did that was just a controller
for a threat fusion anti-terrorism center that they built.
And he went there to expose the different royal family members that were involved with
the Bushes, with the Clintons, with Google, with Facebook and others pushing the Arab
Wahhabist Spring that threatened to even overthrow Saudi Arabia itself where that form of Islam
actually comes from.
And the deal that was struck was they would stop backing ISIS at al-Qaeda and the United
States would then stop being basically soft-handed or wearing kid gloves with Iran.
That deal was made.
And now eight plus months after that deal was made, you have these top princelings and
others that are stakeholders in news core, in city group, Fox News, you name it, being
arrested.
These are the very people helping fund the anti-Trump movements with Soros here in the
United States.
So all over the world, globalism is in deep trouble.
And we're going to break down the situation unfolding in Saudi Arabia where an ICBM also
was fired yesterday that hit near their airport, just a lot of craziness going on.
But first, when we return, the collapse of the Democratic Party establishment because
the witch Hillary refused to leave, the Soros-funded creature Hillary.
We now learn that Donna Brazil, the head of the DNC, feared for her life after top
DNC staffer over email Seth Rich was executed, shot in the back, and that basically she believed
that Hillary and the DNC were behind it and that she knew that there were reports of their
servers being hacked by Pakistan, China, Russia, you name it, and tried to stop it and that
Hillary and others said, don't do it.
That's the latest shoe to drop as Donna Brazil separates herself from these individuals.
Now, I don't just believe Donna Brazil.
I know from my own deep research that what she's saying is true.
And our listeners know we covered all this first as you get next year's news today here
at InfoWars.
So this is powerful, and this signifies that Hillary could be getting ready to be indicted.
The globalist might actually just Arkansas her before that happens, but I hope that doesn't
happen because I want to see her stay in trial.
We are seeing globally the old order fall, the old new order fall, and a new system of
nationalism and free market coming in.
This is incredible.
It's accelerated.
It's happening faster than I thought.
It's a very exciting time, but also a very dangerous time to be alive.
I'm Alex Jones.
This is the InfoWars, infowars.com, newswars.com.
We'll be right back on the other side, please stay with us.
If you go to infowars.com and get game-changing, amazing products, we've been sold out of DNA
Force for almost four months.
These ingredients are nutraceutical grade, the highest quality, the bio-PQQ, all of it.
It's 25% off.
The truck got in this morning, and it's back, but it is a limited run because of all the
testing and all the rest of it.
It's the highest quality.
Read about what it'll do for you and your family.
It is amazing.
We also have been sold out for three months on biome defense, super high quality, probiotic.
It's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there.
We're really, really proud of it, DNA Force and biome defense, probiotic.
Now back at stockinfowarslife.com, and when you buy products from Globalist, it's an
active trading with the enemy.
It is an active war.
It is an active standing up when you spread the links, the articles, and buy products
from us, and then we commit rampage against the enemy totally.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, Sunday, November 5th, 2017, and the entire Globalist
Crime Syndicate, the entire international crime order.
The New World Order is coming down because it's authoritarian and abusive of the nation
states and individuals, and Donald Trump is a leading captain in that fight.
But all of you are on the front lines of this huge awakening.
God of Brazil, the former head of the DNC has come out and said Hillary stole the election
from Bernie Sanders.
I don't need to hear that from her.
It's a fact, but I know she's telling the truth because what she's written about and
gone public about in her new book is what happened at the time.
It's all confirmed.
But bigger than that, mainstream media, CNN, MSNBC, Wolf Glitzer, Pocahontas, Elizabeth
Warren, they're all turning against the Clintons now because they know there's no way they
can cover up the crimes.
They've committed, so they're trying to distance themselves from it.
That's not going to work.
But here is the giant, brutal, massive bombshell.
We broke first that they rigged the nomination process against Bernie Sanders.
We've been proven correct in triplicate.
So again, we're the real news, MSNBC, the rest, they're the fake news.
We also broke that Seth Rich clearly was executed and murdered as the head staffer over the
emails for the DNC.
There were major Homeland Security investigations over Pakistan, India, Russia, China, the EU,
in our servers, Hillary's illegal servers.
They wanted to cover it up.
Donna Brazil has now come out and said she wanted to go to Homeland Security.
She tried to get Jay Johnson involved and Hillary and others said, shut up, don't look
at it, don't investigate it.
Incredible.
But that pales in significance to the headline at infowars.com.
From her book, Donna Brazil says she feared for her life after Seth Rich was killed and
that she basically thought the DNC or others were going to try to kill her to cover up
what she knew about whatever was happening in those servers.
This is the rats leaving the sinking ship.
Donna Brazil is controlled by Biden, by Obama and others, and they're trying to compartmentalize
now the danger.
But think about this.
We got hammered.
We got attacked.
We got demonized for being the first to expose that Seth Rich was a political murder.
Then WikiLeaks came out and said, we don't normally give up sources, but basically he's
our source and we've got a big reward for whoever finds out who killed him.
That's why they're now so desperate.
And the fact that the Democratic Party establishment is running from the Clintons right now shows
you the whole house of cards is coming down.
Who else deserves credit?
You the listeners for taking action.
Sean Hannity almost got fired over exposing all this, but he didn't back down.
The fact that we've held the line, stood firm, held fast is an example of stalwart action
in the face of tyranny.
Now I'm going to read over some of the transcripts of her book here, getting into this in a moment.
And first I want to play Roger Stone last night, first, before anybody else had read
the book and found this, he broke the news last night, live with us on air as we were
ending our marathon broadcast covering Antifa's failed, a November 4th so-called revolution
that I'll cover later.
And again, it's up to all of us to push this story out there because other than Drudge
and Zero Hedge and Info Wars, hardly anybody is covering the fact that Donna Brazil feared
for her life after Seth Rich was executed, vindicating everything we said, everything
you said.
I mean, every day, huge new developments drop, proving we were dead on.
Here's Roger Stone reporting from Florida last night.
This is Roger Stone for Info Wars.
Former DNC big, Donna Brazil dropped a bombshell in her new book when she admitted that she
feared her life in the wake of the murder of Seth Rich.
That means that Brazil knew that Rich had been murdered for political purposes.
One need look only at the interview with Julian Assange of WikiLeaks where he says three
times in regard to Rich that sources to WikiLeaks are in great physical danger.
And then he posts a $25,000 reward for apprehension of Seth Rich's murderer.
What more do you need to know?
Roger Stone for Info Wars, what more do you need, ladies and gentlemen, Donna Brazil,
the former head of the DNC has now come out publicly and said, I fear for my life.
Seth Rich was probably murdered politically to cover up corruption in the DNC and a bunch
of foreign countries inside our servers.
And I'm not involved and I'm not going to prison with the Clintons.
Just days after she comes out and confirms what already we all know, it happened publicly,
but the media covered it up that the nomination was stolen from Bernie Sanders.
He won most of the states, but then they would just give him the delegates.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is an example of pure, unadulterated, incredible arrogance
of people thinking that they were invincible and could get away with anything, but I'm
starting to get freaked out.
I mean, everything we've talked about is now being confirmed on a daily basis that Trump
was about to take down the Wahhabist and the ISIS supporters in Saudi Arabia just happened
this weekend, that China was going to have to back down in their trade war, starting
to happen, that Trump was going to release the JFK files.
He did it.
Just everything, seeing it in mid-floorides causing brain damage in children, that vaccines
are killing people.
I mean, we are seeing a collapse, ladies and gentlemen, in the globalist operation and
it's all because of you taking action.
We're seeing nationalist and pro-populist and pro-capitalist winning all over the world
minute by minute.
This is like sudden death over time in a football game that never ends.
It is so riveting.
Here's a ZRO Hedge article that we have linked up on infowars.com that came out today.
We have our video breaking it last night embedded inside with Roger Stone and let's read over
some of this.
Donna Brazil says she feared for her life, close quote, after Seth Rich was killed, executed
just the fact that Brazil says she too suspected that some nefarious might be afoot is reason
up to take a second look at his death.
Well, look at how desperate they were to demonize anybody that looked at it to say you hated
the family or you were a bad person when the family first questioned it as well, then how
people changed their stories.
I mean, this was the machine in motion.
She says top Democrats initially instructed her not to discuss her concerns with others
about the fact of how compromised the servers were.
Her fears only intensifies, she says, after the mysterious shooting of former campaign
staffer Seth Rich, who the authorities said was killed during a robbery, though many so-called
conspiracy theorists, that means questioning known liars, have speculated about the possible
democratic plot to kill Seth Rich for his role in leaking the stash of D&C emails to
WikiLeaks, Brazil's anxiety eventually spiraled out of control to the point where she feared
her own life while serving as interim chairman of the D&C.
After Schultz was removed, over the laptop, connected into Pakistan.
Of course, if it's true that Seth Rich was killed as a punishment for leaking the emails,
then that would be, of course, invalidate most of the evidence supporting the Russian
interference narrative that has been propagated by the Democrats and their partners in the
intelligence community.
Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have words to describe to you right now how incredible
this is.
Everything we've talked about, about the IMF and World Bank wanting world government,
and about the plan to bankrupt the government and get rid of the borders, and the plan to
break up the family, and the plans for communist revolution, and all of it is falling flat
on its face, I cannot express to you words enough of how important this is.
The globalists were arrogant, they hijacked America while we were sleeping, they used
our energy and power to expand their control worldwide.
But as soon as we woke up, you could hear the brakes being slammed like a car wreck,
and now it's a whole new world, but it's up to us to be moral and be good and be strong
and not just throw out one kleptocratic regime that thought it was invincible.
To bring in a new set of systems, we've got to maintain our vigilance, we have to promote
the republic, promote being chivalrous, promote the free market, and promote staying focused
and honoring questioning big government and corruption, not demonizing it as being a conspiracy
theorist.
We used to call that an involved, informed, active citizen.
Praise God for what's happening, and thank all of you for taking action.
Without you the info warriors of every race, color, and creed, we'd be up the creek without
a paddle.
We'll be back with the fall of the globalist control of Saudi Arabia straight ahead.
America is an information-based civil war.
That's why now, more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these
globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot, who's pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom,
who at the same time is tolerant.
American liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Geverson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote
freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as
well as more Patriot Feral at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostaguard.
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance.
InfoWars Life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out
there, but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs
and extracts that our experts recommend.
The Prostaguard formula does just that, with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants
that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3,
selenium, and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men on the InfoWars crew take every day, and from
our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in
order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Prostaguard on your side today, exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure these sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfoWarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Brought by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee available at InfoWarsLife.com.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super-blue fluoride-free products.
InfoWarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty, fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubble gum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super-blue fluoride-free mouthwash and super-charge
your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal
and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super-blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral
health benefits.
Our super-blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients, xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super-blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
We are living in the season of change.
True change, not Barack Obama's change that meant more globalism, more socialism, more
command and control.
Now we're living in the true season of change where all over the world, every week, nation
states vote to rediscover and reclaim their sovereignty, and one place that's happening
is in Saudi Arabia.
Before I hit this giant news, here's an article by Paul Joseph Watson on Friday from InfoWars.com.
Obama-era FBI Assistant Director of the FBI says, quote, Americans must accept terror attacks
as the price of diversity.
And you've got Brennan, who converted to Islam, who became the head of the CIA.
You had the Bushes who made deals with Saudi Arabia to literally sell out Europe and the
West to Islam.
That continued under Obama and the Muslim Brotherhood and the same Wahhabist groups.
Under Trump in 10 months, that's all been changed.
Saudi Arabia was told, you can keep your power, you can keep your country, you can keep your
kingdom.
But Wahhabism is over, your imperialistic Islamic expansion is over, and if you don't
do that, we're going to overthrow you.
So Trump, months ago, traveled to Saudi Arabia, met with them, and they had agreed to do that.
We then saw terror attacks intensify because there's subgroups in Saudi Arabia that didn't
want to do it.
A few years ago, Russia was threatened by Prince Bandar, who's been part of the group
that's been grabbed and arrested.
And they said to the Russians, if you don't back off in Syria, we're going to launch attacks
on the Olympics at Sochi, we're going to launch attacks on your tourism centers, and Russia
doubled down and didn't back off and stopped them.
Well, clearly from my intel, Saudi Arabian criminal elements, as we reported last week
and week before, were involved in the attacks in Las Vegas as a message to Trump and others
that if you don't back off, we're going to not just use Islamic attackers, we're going
to use deep state mercenary groups to do this.
Now, we've seen a purge against all the big top princes that owned News Corp and own
Citigroup, and we're part of this whole leftist globalist operation.
The main prince that was running the operation, again, is somebody that said Trump will be
removed, an Ever-Trumper, and a guy still financing, as we said, during the campaign,
hundreds of millions against Trump and currently trying to throw him out.
So understand, the guy involved in our election, involved funding ISIS, you name it, has now
been arrested.
Do you think Trump's visit had an effect?
Purge, Saudi king, arrests princes, cabinet members in anti-corruption crackdown, billionaire
prince and 38 cabinet members charged with corruption and money laundering.
And CNN has the sickening headlines about the incredible, the amazing prince has been
arrested.
He funds leftist movements, he's been working with Iran to double-cross Saudi Arabia, I
mean, he's got a true globalist.
In a shocking development, Saudi press al-Madin reported late Saturday that prominent billionaire
member of the royal Saudi family and one of the biggest shareholders of Citigroup News
Corp, that's Fox, and Twitter, not to mention, notice you can't criticize Islam on Twitter
when they're calling for killing you, not to mention frequent CNBC guest, Alawid Bin Ta'al,
that's CNN worships.
Go to CNN's website, they literally call it the incredible prince, along with 10, because
he finances half the network, 10 senior princes and some 30 ministers has been arrested for
corruption and money laundering charges on orders from the new anti-corruption committee
headed by crown prince Mohammed bin Salam and royal prince, private planes have all
been grounded.
So there you go.
Yeah, oh, you're going to stop Trump, you're going to stop America, you're going to kick
us around, going to have Saudi intelligence go threaten talk show host.
I think that's going to really have an effect with people here in America.
You don't think that they don't understand the patriots in our government that if talk
show host can be pushed around, and if business owners can be pushed around, and if patriotic
stock companies can be pushed around and threatened by people that they won't be threatened
next, you don't think that, you don't think we don't know what's been going on, you don't
think we're about to rip your arms out from their sockets.
So you want political war, you got it, you got it on all fronts now, hundreds of fronts,
we're coming in, we're coming in, Hillary's going down, the head of the DNC saying she
stole the election, she killed people, it's all coming out, and only you whores and media
that take the globalist money to sell the country out, your names are going to be anathema,
you're going to be mud.
Here's another one, Saudi Arabia intercepts ballistic missile over capital, that was used
as a diversion that hit outside the airport, fired from Yemen.
Remember Trump urges Saudi Arabia to list state oil company on New York stock exchange,
but a group of anti-American globalists tried to block it, tried to block Trump's deal,
and so what happened, oh, they're all been arrested, see how that works, scum?
Oh, but don't worry, we've seen George Herbert Walker Bush, now eight women have come forward
saying he grabbed them, grabbed their butts, tried to rape them from his wheelchair, he's
now come out with his son and said that Trump's a blowhard, let me tell you who's sold out
America to Saudi Arabia, the Bushes, the globalist, back in the 70s, and now they are being put
in line, I mean, look at George W. Jr. with his dad, I mean, talk about two bombed out
of their brain lunatics who think them coming out against Trump now, when they sold us out
all these foreign interests, these corrupt, twisted lunatics that sold us out to the Nazis
and are lucky that Prescott Bush, Herbert Walker Bush's dad wasn't arrested during
the McCormick-Dickstein committee hearings, you people are jokes.
So that's what this comes down to, and now the rats are leaving the sinking ship.
Even the Huffington Post says Hillary Clinton, the Podesta group in the Saudi regime, and
now they're admitting they're on the payroll, the corrupt elements of the Saudi regime,
and Podesta is getting in trouble for uranium one and everything else, it's all coming
back to haunt them.
We told you Seth Rich was a political assassination, nothing was taken, now the head of the DNC
says it was, we told you all this stuff, and every day it's all coming out.
And we told you they were planning a violent revolution tomorrow that would probably be
a dud, and it was, we're going to cover that with Owen Schreuer coming up in the next segment.
They think they're going to drive us out of power, we don't want power, we want free
market to be left alone, and to have low taxes, and to be able to have the American
Dream again, and the world wants that dream, because it's a reality, and it's happening
briefly.
If you financially support us, we're not financed by Soros or the Saudis or the Globals, we're
financed by you buying high quality water filtration, shepherds, t-shirts, books, films,
and hundreds of other great products at infowarsstore.com, DNA force sold out for almost four months
is back in stock, find out why it's so great, 25% off our great probiotic bomb defense,
25% off, and a bunch of specials in today, so be sure and take advantage of Anthroplex,
too, and so many other products that are about to go off sale, essential oils, whatever
you get, check it out, because there are thousands of game-changing products made in America,
limited edition t-shirts, ball caps, you name it, visit Infowarsstore.com today to support
the infowars, whatever you do, spread the links on Facebook, Twitter, and Google, and
at Infowars, to our live feeds right now, on your email, spreadinfowars.com, newswars.com,
because despite all the censorship, we're winning thanks to you all and this amazing
crew that worked so hard up here on Sunday.
That said, I want Troyer and Morris coming up on the revolution that didn't happen that
was a dud that sort of was funded yesterday.
I'm Alex Jones, stay with us.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality Infowars Biome Defense
Probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high-quality, known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your Biome Defense in Ultra Strength or Regular Strength at InfowarsLife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health, and support the Infowar.
Refresh your breath with Imrexistential's Organic Mouthwash.
Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing
effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste.
Imrexistential's mouthwash is non-GMO, certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals or
other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Imrexistential's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Imrexistential's.
Visit InfowarsStore.com to learn more.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just
encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from InfowarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at InfowarsStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, the colloidal silver
and iodine as well, InfowarsLife.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to InfowarsStore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
that's easy to use, and let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables,
meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Right Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at InfowarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of the Infowar.
Welcome back to the Alex Jones Show here, filling in for Alex Owen Schreuer.
We'll be with you until 6pm central as we are every Sunday, 4-6pm central.
Infowars kicks off their weekday broadcasting tomorrow morning, 8am, real news with David
Knight, 4 hours of the Alex Jones Show as always 11-3 and then followed up by The War Room
hosted by yours truly from 3-6pm central.
That is our live weekday schedule now.
Thanks to you supporting us.
Alright, we've got some details coming through the pipeline now on the shooter in Sutherland
Springs, Texas today who killed reportedly 27 people.
We're hearing different numbers, but the highest would be 27, the lowest 20.
Devin Patrick Kelly is the one who's been ID'd as the shooter.
And how do you like this, folks?
An Air Force veteran and a gun owner who posted on October 29th a picture of his rifle with
the caption, she's a bad bitch.
Well, that's going to feed right into the Democrats' hands, so we can already see the
narrative that's going to play out here, folks.
No need to pontificate on that.
We already know where this one's going.
So this is what we have.
This morning, just after 11am, we're told that Devin Patrick Kelly, a 26-year-old who
lived just outside of San Antonio, went into a Baptist church in Sutherland Springs and
killed at least 20 people, injured 50.
Sadly, no one at the church was armed at the time, and he met zero resistance.
He then fled the scene and were told was then apprehended about five blocks from the church.
We do not know yet whether he died from a self-inflicted bullet wound or one from the
police.
That is really the lone detail that we don't have.
The other piece of the story, all the other puzzle pieces have already been laid out there
for us and for the media to report on.
We are still waiting for the press conference to go live.
I would suspect that's going to be coming down here soon now that they have ID'd and
released the name of the killer.
Rob Dew is live on the scene right now at the press conference as we wait for official
statements from the police or from the FBI.
We know the FBI is on the scene as well, so it will be interesting to see who controls
the press conference there.
But again, Devin Patrick Kelly and Air Force veteran and somebody who had a gun as his
background and apparently it was his rifle that he posted about, I guess this is on Facebook
here.
So there you go folks, so great.
Well you already know what's going to happen tomorrow, it's the white male's fault and
it's the gun's fault.
Just like the Austin Chronicle said, white males are the new face of terror.
Now we have not been provided a motive in the Las Vegas Massacre.
You can guess your own reasons as to why that is.
I wonder if and when we'll ever get a motive on this deal.
I wonder what type of, well let's just say it will be interesting to see what goes on
in the interwebs on the forums such as 4chan and Reddit as we continue to get more details
on this.
It will be interesting to see what comes of any video footage that may have been recorded
of the congregation that day.
This is a church, a congregation that records all of their Sundays and it looks like the
press conference now is about to begin folks.
It looks like Greg Abbott is going to be leading us off here.
Greg Abbott about to speak from a community center just outside of Sutherland Springs.
Our own Rob Dew is on the scene.
Let's go live to the press conference for pitching in and helping out and continuing to demonstrate
to the entire world the way that Texans come together to help their fellow Texans.
As a state we are dealing with the largest mass shooting in our state specifically.
For so many families we've lost family members, fathers, mothers, sons, and daughters.
The tragedy of course is worse than the fact that it occurred in a church, a place of worship,
but these people were innocently gunned down.
We mourn their loss but we support their family members.
In their efforts as they put all the pieces of a very complex puzzle together to try to
provide their community all the answers they need and deserve.
Unfortunately I'm sad to tell you to confirm at least at this moment in time there are
26 lives that have been lost.
We don't know that number will rise or not, all we know is that's too many and this will
be a long suffering morning for those in pain.
We ask for God's comfort, for God's guidance, and for God's healing for all those who are
suffering.
This is the Governor of Texas Greg Abbott reporting from the press conference.
You put your arm around your kid and give your kid a big hug and let them know how much
you love them, knowing that we support each other, to all your friends and your neighbors,
that you support them and that you will work with them.
I'm very proud of the way we have so many people working together to respond to this.
Already talking to the emergency team in Texas reported that the emergency medical task force
from San Antonio was deployed to help respond to the magnitude of this tragedy.
San Antonio area hospitals and trauma centers have coordinated with regard to patient movement
and patient care.
The Red Cross has set up Family Assistance Center to help all families affected by this.
One thing that is very important for everybody affected by this, whether you're a family
member or non-family member, is that you avail yourself of counseling resources that will
be made readily available in abundance.
Now we have so many people who have helped respond in coordinated fashion already.
I'll express my gratitude to the President who called from overseas.
My gratitude to Senators Cornyn and Cruz with whom I've already spoken, as well as members
of the Texas Legislature.
But when you look at the robust response from just the immediate area, I'll express my gratitude
to the Sheriff of Wilson County, to the District Attorney from this area, Audrey Lewis, who
is I say this area is because our territory is larger than just Wilson County.
To DPS, Regional Director Freyman Martin, each of those three will be speaking shortly.
All right, folks, we've got to go to a break here.
We've got one more segment left of the Alex Jones Show.
You were just hearing from Greg Abbott at the beginning of this press conference.
26 lives lost.
Devin Kelly, a former U.S. Air Force member, served from 2010 to 2014 dishonorably discharged.
When he used an AR-15 rifle, they are reporting for this mass shooting.
We'll continue to cover this as more details emerge.
Don't go anywhere.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're running the biggest special we've ever had for our best-selling
product, Brain Force.
Now Brain Force Plus, there's 20% more in each bottle.
And we're now purchasing so much of it from the major organic manufacturer here in the
United States that we've been able to get it for less.
So I'm offering for the first time ever 50% off and I thought I could offer this for maybe
a month.
I'm going to have to stop this special within a week because it is blasting out of our warehouse
because the fans of it, already you're stocking up, they know how great it is, a whole bunch
of organic, natural, healthy, known, new tropics.
And if you want good, clean, focused energy, then Brain Force is for you and you're supporting
the broadcast at the same time.
That's a good deal at $39.
It's $19.96 at InfowarsLife.com or simply call toll free, 888-253-3139.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the
day.
Whenever you need sun protection, we source ingredients from nature, producing a product
free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used and
we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth, the truly natural fragrance
free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products
to enhance your life.
Simply protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit InfowarsStore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry.
Our ancestors would hear the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance
to organize and prepare a defense.
Sixty years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums
of their own, air raid sirens.
But in the 21st century, there were silent weapons for quiet war.
Pathogens added to the food and water, and to the lining of plastics that destroy our
vitality.
Turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death.
I personally counter this onslaught with Anthroplex.
Anthroplex is designed with known, organic, concentrated herbs to create the basic foundation
to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
Discover why Anthroplex has turned so many heads today.
It's time for us to take our bodies back into our own hands, and it starts at InfowarsLife.com
with Anthroplex.
Vitamin mineral fusion, visit InfowarsLife.com to secure your chemist.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at InfowarsLife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of InfowarsLife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like Survival
Shield X2, SuperMail Vitality and so many others, with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest-secured, you're finding the tip of
the spear in the Infowars, that's InfowarsLife.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
He aligns himself with the truth, and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Folks, right now the press conference is live and they're now reporting it was a citizen
with a gun that may have actually saved lives and stopped the shooting before it got worse.
Let's go live for the press conference.
We know he's deceased in the vehicle.
The suspect has not been completely identified.
We believe he's a young white male, maybe in his early 20s.
He was dressed in an all-black tactical type gear and was wearing a ballistic vest.
The delay in getting him identified is there were multiple weapons in the vehicle and the
vehicle has been processed by our Texas Ranger Special Operations Group bomb techs.
There's a lot of work to be done in this investigation.
We know that there are 23 found deceased inside the church, two deceased outside the church,
and now one of them that was transported that was injured has deceased.
Bringing the total to 26, we have approximately 20 that are transported local and in hospitals
in San Antonio with injuries that vary from minor to very severe.
We know the ages range from five years old to 72 years of age.
There's a lot of work to be done.
We are only hours into this investigation, which is going to take a significant length
of time.
We will continue to provide information as it becomes available.
We know you're going to have a lot of questions.
There are many, many that we cannot answer.
We continue to process crime scenes.
We have multiple, multiple crime scenes.
We have the church.
We have outside the church.
We have where the suspect vehicle was located.
We have following up on the suspect and where he's from, his residence.
We have many, many people to interview.
We have Texas Rangers at all the hospitals, locating those and interviewing those who
were injured.
So not a lot of information to give at this time, but the state of Texas, we have every
resource that we have available, Texas Rangers, special operations, Texas Highway Patrol
crime scene labs, victim services, the Texas Division of Emergency Management.
Every resource we have available is working.
And if they do this investigation, we'll be able to answer any reasonable question as
to what happened.
Was the neighbor injured?
The one that engaged him?
No, he was not.
Did that?
Great.
So interesting, they're reporting that it was a neighbor that heard the gunshots that
came out and with his own rifle and may have stopped shooting from getting worse as they
just reported that the shooter had other weapons in his vehicle.
So let's go to Greg Abbott now.
Certain evaluation of exactly what happened and we will provide that explanation as quickly
as possible.
We will be leaving here and going to meet with some of the family members of those
affected as soon as we finish up, but we'll take a few questions.
How many were in the church and how many escaped death or being wounded?
Anybody knows that.
If we don't have those numbers, there were people in the church that escaped that were
not injured.
But we don't have all the information.
I'm sorry.
So they're now saying that there were eyewitnesses of the shooting inside the church that they
believe escaped without harm.
Not at this time, that is being investigated, but we can't say one way or the other.
What about him was suspicious to begin with or what initiated the original call?
Those are the types of things that are under intense investigation right now and hopefully
we will learn about them in the next 24 hours.
The revised total of victims, that does not include the shooter, correct?
Correct.
Can you tell us anything about a possible raid at the suspect's home?
All those types of things will be pieces of information that will be coming out shortly.
Are any victims outside the church?
Yes.
Do you know anything about any of those?
Interesting.
Victims outside the church.
He would have done this.
All of those types of things are being looked into as we speak.
Can we take one more question?
When are you going to help such a shooter?
Did I hear Russian?
Say again.
The health insurance family was in attendance at the church and the Mark IV had a notion.
Unaware of that.
When we release his name?
As soon as possible.
Was he known to do that?
So this is interesting.
We've had a name released, Devin Patrick Kelly, but in this press conference they're
not willing to commit to that.
As I think you're realizing, there's a lot of information, we want to piece the puzzle
together before we provide you any misinformation and we want to make sure that we meet with
the family members who are affected by this before we release information publicly.
We hope to get this information to you as soon as possible.
Thank you very much.
And the call that came in was not a shooter.
There was no call.
Okay, so that concludes the press conference from Stockdale, Texas.
Our own Rob Dew was there.
He had the whole thing if you want to go back and watch it.
Let's take a couple of interesting notes.
Now we're about to have the clip of the eyewitness that said the neighbor came out and may have
thwarted the shooting from being worse.
That was confirmed in the press conference.
They said 26 dead, that was from Governor Abbott.
Interestingly enough, it sounded like, and again, I just heard this for the first time
and crew, if you guys heard something different than what I heard, please enlighten me.
But it sounded like the one guy described the event that the shooter actually began
outside of the church.
And then he was, I don't know if he was shooting into the church or shooting people out, but
it sounded, the description to me said that the shooter started outside the church, went
around the church shooting and then entered the church and shot more people.
He said that people did escaped unharmed.
And then I guess when he exited the church again is when the neighbor engaged in fire
with him.
And I guess that's when he hopped in the car and tried to flee the scene and then was apprehended
about five blocks later where they said he had more weapons in his vehicle.
Now on that same note, they were unwilling to commit to Devin Patrick Kelly as the shooter,
even though he's the one being reported as the shooter already by most mainstream media
outlets.
And again, this Devin Patrick Kelly was dishonorably discharged after serving in the Air Force
from 2010 to 2014.
He did post on social media pictures of his rifle that they're saying he used.
And then the Facebook page of Devin Patrick Kelly, of course, magically gone right after
his name is released.
So it's amazing how that happens.
So let's go to this clip now.
This is an eyewitness to the neighbor coming out and potentially thwarting the shooting
from getting worse.
Wow, OK, so according to that eyewitness, the neighbor came out, engaged the shooter,
the killer, she believes that a bullet struck the shooter at that point in time, in which
case the shooter then got into his vehicle and fled the scene only to crash it a few
blocks down the road.
Is that a crash because he was so disoriented, lost vision or lost consciousness because
of blood loss?
Was there another factor that caused that accident?
Did he decide he just wanted to kill himself at that point because he had already been
shot?
I guess we may or may not get those answers.
But think about this, folks.
Think about this.
On the heels of this attack, you already had multiple Democrats from Congress blaming
the gun, calling for gun legislation.
But think about this as we're learning more of this event.
If it wasn't for an American citizen with a gun, according to eyewitnesses and their
testimonies, this shooting could have been worse.
Folks, police officers are not on the scene all the time.
They simply cannot be.
It's impossible.
The average response time for police, I think, is around two minutes, OK?
I'm not knocking the police.
They're only human.
They can't be everywhere at once.
If it wasn't for a good citizen, a neighbor that heard the shooting and pulled out his
own rifle, and eyewitnesses believe that it was the neighbor that shot the suspect and
eventually led to the stopping of this mass shooting, that is pretty powerful to think
that this was, and this is Texas, of course.
This has happened before.
Islamic terrorists have been shot dead before they can carry out a mass event.
So while all the Democrats are calling for guns to be taken, calling for gun control,
blaming guns, blaming the Second Amendment, recall what stopped the shooter, according
to eyewitnesses, a good guy with a gun, a citizen with a gun, a rifle that the Democrats
would probably love to take from that citizen that stopped the shooting because they think
that's the answer to ending all this.
So folks, obviously stay tuned, Infowars will be on top of this.
David Knight will give you updates tomorrow morning when he kicks off at 8 a.m.
The Alex Jones Show, obviously 11 central.
Be sure to follow that.
Folks, there's all kinds of other news as well.
Donna Brazil selling out the Clintons.
Brazil saying she feared for her life after Seth Rich was killed.
Apparently Mueller has a couple other indictments looming, one of which may be Podesta.
The rumoring the other one might be Flynn.
We'll see about that.
Trump is expecting to meet with Vladimir Putin on his trip to Asia.
Unbelievable, folks.
This is all going.
Be sure to tune in tomorrow.
And as always, you stay classy, Info Warriors.
Not a group you develop living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system.
Right now, we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now, with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that Seth, there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
America is an information-based civil war.
That's why now, more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these
globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullies.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their one-of-the-dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom
who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote
freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as
well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
