From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
What we are looking at is good and evil, right and wrong.
Well, we've got a new talking point that's being put out by mainstream media we're going to go to coming up the next long segment.
Questioning Hillary Clinton exposing uranium-1 or Russian connections is dictatorship.
But then they're the ones calling for Trump to be overthrown and the ones that want martial law.
So that is all coming up today. There is so much more to go over.
Plus Judge Roy Moore saying that he courted 16, 17-year-old girls when he was 35.
I think that's a little creepy but not illegal.
But meanwhile you've got, as I said, Joe Biden groping little kids all over television hundreds of times.
The service agents saying that he would grop little kids and was worse than Weinstein.
You've got Bill Clinton, you've got just all the Democrat garbage, Kevin Spacey, Hollywood, the rest of it.
And they're trying to project their activity on the conservatives, Christians and libertarians as if we're the ones that have the big, giant history of this.
When we see there's evidence of Moore doing something, we'll go after him.
But more and more the evidence gets undermined.
The mall says he was never banned. It was never an issue with him at the mall and teenage girls.
It's just made up. And now people want to see the yearbook.
Not just hold it up. And a bunch of them turned out to be Democrat party operatives.
That's what I'm saying is they take Moore and turn him into the devil incarnate
and then change the whole subject of everything they've been doing
and then make normal courtship activities between men and women a dirty bad thing.
Now that said, according to Democratic standards, and I knew this news two days ago,
I was dealing with a bunch of family stuff today, so I didn't really come in and do a bunch of preparation.
I normally do that, but I walked in here and they said, have you heard Al Franken and I said, assaulted a woman.
They said, oh, yeah, you've already seen it? Is it just broke?
And I said, yeah, I knew about it two days ago, but I was not green-lighted to go anywhere, whether I knew about it from Roger Stone.
So we should probably get Roger on to give us the rest of the story today.
Now he knew about it a couple days ago, and I've got his text messages.
Al Franken's sex accusation, kissed and groped, not funny.
According to Democratic Party nomenclature, a man and woman who are married having sex is rape.
Feminists actually teach any sex with a man and woman is evil.
Of course, don't ignore the fact that lesbians have the highest rate of rape, highest rate of beating each other up.
And I'm not saying they're all rapists or I'm just saying statistically, it's a very abusive group to their own people.
So they just demonize heterosexuals all day.
But here's photos of Al Franken joking like he's grabbing a woman's breast.
And, you know, he's all out of the same Hollywood sewer that thinks destroying the Republic's funny.
We don't think it's funny, Mr. Franken.
So we're going to be going over all of that today.
And I also have a ton of news dealing with what Trump did in Asia.
And last night, I did a lot of preparation and did about three hours of research after the family went to bed.
And I ended up watching all of Trump's speeches in Japan, in South Korea, in Vietnam and other areas.
I watched like nine speeches last night and I thought, these are so powerful.
I really ought to air at least one of these.
And the one in Seoul, South Korea, like I forgot to tell the crew that, pull us up at WhiteHouse.gov version please, was extremely powerful.
And if you understand the 15-minute speech, you understand everything.
One of those Rosetta Stone keys that Trump's thinking, my thinking, historical thinking, common sense, Americana Renaissance,
versus globalism, versus communism, versus socialism, versus fascism.
So that's coming up as well.
Tommy Robinson is going to be breaking down some incredible news.
They're now trying to make it illegal to not send your kids to mosque.
I'm not joking.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure, deep earth iodine crystals.
That essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Senator Al Franken kissed and groped me without my consent and there's nothing funny about it.
Now according to leftist ideology, coming up and not announcing that you're going to try to grab somebody and kiss them and grop them is assault and extreme rape.
Because according to the left and modern feminism, male and females having sex even though they're married is rape.
I'm not joking. All sex is rape and is violent if it's heterosexual.
Heterosexualism that produces children and population is bad according to the eugenics program so the general public doesn't procreate.
You're saying, well, that doesn't make sense.
Statistically, homosexual couples have higher degrees of abuse, family violence, suicide, you name it.
I'm not attacking these groups, it's just a fact, higher levels of depression, higher levels of domestic violence, higher levels of suicide.
But it doesn't matter.
Heterosexualism is evil.
Normal courtship, asking a woman out, is harassment.
Even if you don't work with her, it just doesn't matter, period, it's bad.
So by extension, Kevin Spacey grabbing other members of the cast genitals, well, oh, that's just the same as asking a girl out, according to Hollywood.
And so Al Franken now, in new sex accusations, quote, he kissed and groped me and then there's a photo of the very trip that it's being talked about of him doing it.
With a reporter that is asleep on the flight over, making his jokes.
In December 2006, I embarked on my ninth USO tour to entertain our trips, my eighth of Middle East since the 9-11 attacks.
My father served in Vietnam and my then boyfriend and now husband, Chris, is a pilot in the Air Force.
So bringing a little piece of home to service members stationed far away from their families was both my passion and my privilege.
Also on the trip, there were country music artists, and it goes over Daryl Worley, Mark Wills, Kenny Thomas, and some cheerleaders from the Dallas Cowboys.
The headliner was comedian and now Senator Al Franken.
Franken had written some skits for the show and brought props and costumes to go along with them, like many USO shows before and since the skits were full of sexual innuendo geared towards young male audience.
As a TV host and sports broadcaster, we go to infowars.com and bunch it up there.
As a TV host and sports broadcaster, as well as a model familiar to the audience from the covers of FHM Maxman Playboy, I was only expecting to MC and introduce the acts.
But Franken said he had a part for me that he thought would be funny and I agreed to play along.
When I saw the script, Franken had written a moment when the character comes at me for a kiss. I suspected what he was after, but I figured I would turn my head and at the last minute put my hand on my mouth to get more laughs from the crowd.
On the day of the show, Franken and I were alone backstage going over our lines. One last time he said to me, we need to rehearse the kiss. I laughed and ignored him.
Then he said it again. I said something like relax Al, this is an SNL. We don't need to rehearse the kiss. He continued to insist that I was beginning to get uncomfortable.
He repeated that actors really need to rehearse everything. This is just like Weinstein and that we must practice the kiss.
I said okay, so he would stop badgering me. We did the line leading up to the kiss and then he came at me, put his hand down the back of my hand, mashed his lips against mine and aggressively stuck his tongue in my mouth.
Well, at least you didn't bite your lip to keep it from resisting like Bill Clinton would do and then start choking you.
But again, he is a Democrat so I guess it's okay. I immediately pushed him away with both my hands against my chest and told him they ever did that to me again.
I wouldn't be so nice the next time. I walked away. All I could think about was getting to a bathroom as fast as possible to rinse the taste of him out of my mouth.
I felt disgusted and I felt violated. Not long after I performed the skit. It was written carefully turning my head so he couldn't kiss me on the lips.
No one saw what happened backstage. I didn't tell the sergeant major of the Army who was the sponsor of the tour. I didn't tell the USO rep what happened.
At the time I didn't want to cause trouble. We're in the middle of a war zone. It was the first show of our holiday tour. I was professional and I could take care of myself.
I told a few others on the tour what Franken had done and they knew how I felt about it. I tried to let it go but I was angry.
Other than our dialogue on stage, I never had a voluntary conversation with Al Franken again. I avoided him as much as possible and I made sure I never was alone with him again for the rest of the tour.
Franken repaid me with petty insults including drawing devil horns on at least one of the headshots I was autographing for the troops but he didn't stop there. The tour ended and on Christmas Eve we began a 36 hour trip home to LA after two weeks of grueling, traveling and performing.
I was exhausted when our C-17 cargo plane took off from Afghanistan. I immediately fell asleep even though I was still wearing my flak vest and Kevlar helmet.
It wasn't until I was back in the US looking through the CD of photos we were given by the photographer that I saw this one. It's Al Franken simulating grabbing her breast.
In fact, I actually think he is grabbing them. One of the hands isn't touching, the other appears to be. I couldn't believe it. He groped me without my consent while I was asleep. I felt violated all over again, embarrassed, belittled, humiliated.
How dare anyone grab my breast like this and think it's funny. And you can see one of the hands is grabbing her breast. I dare you to see it. The other one looks like he's touching her.
I told my husband everything that happened and showed him the picture. I wanted to shout my story to the world with a megaphone to anyone who would listen.
But even as angry as I was, I was worried about the potential backlash and damage the public might have on my career as a broadcaster.
But that was then, this is now. I'm no longer afraid. And she goes on, we need to get her on the show.
Today, I am the news anchor of McErdle in the morning on K ABC. I'm pronouncing her name right in Los Angeles.
My colleagues are some of the most supportive people I've ever worked with in my career, like everyone in the media.
We've been reporting on Harvey Weinstein's sexual misconduct allegations since they broke and the flood of similar stories that have come out.
And then she just goes into why she's done it and what a hypocrite Franken is and how she heard about what Weinstein did and how he basically did the exact same thing to her.
But the bigger issue here is this. Al Franken is the one pushing all of the conservatives are evil and heterosexuals are bad and Christians are bad and Judge Roy Moore and all the rest of this stuff.
And Hollywood needs to police everybody and they're the moral high ground when he's some washed up loser actor comedian.
And he came out in the news just this week and called for conservative media to be banned online on social media.
We can put the headline on screen. He came out Al Franken and said we want to censor conservative media on social media.
That was on the heels of hearings just previous to that.
Last week were they called specifically for him for to be censored and Twitter, Facebook and others YouTube admitted they were doing it.
I mean it's incredible. These people are the biggest hypocrites out there and they're the ones pushing regular courtship being assault but then covering up for all the real assaults.
Hello Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites. We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother? Get virtualshield.com. The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust. Get started today at virtualshield.com. Take advantage of our free 30 day trial.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families. Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at kdarmor.com and for a limited time get all plates at wholesale pricing only at catiarmor.com.
Hunters, anglers, campers and survivalists get back to nature. Expand your horizons with the highest quality, most versatile, unique sling shots and sling bows on the market at slingbow.com.
Slingbow products are compact and models start from just $17.98. They're perfect for your bug out bag or storing in your vehicle. Give yourself and your loved ones the excitement and tradition of slingbow.
A new frontier in archery and truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool. Feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor? That's right.
Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers. Go to infoorstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something. It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals. Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest Rights is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infoorstore.com.
For more information on Harvest Rights, go to infoorstore.com.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infoorstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
This is a live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
A couple days ago, Roger Stone said get ready to learn about Senator Al Franken grabbing a woman and forcing his tongue down her throat.
He told me, sit on the story. He's going to be joining us coming up the next hour to give us more details of it.
He's going to be joining us coming up the next hour to give us more details of it.
He's going to be joining us coming up the next hour to give us more details of it.
He's going to be joining us coming up the next hour to give us more details of it.
He needs to step down now according to his yardstick because if a woman accuses you, you're guilty according to the left yardstick.
Well, buddy, we've got a photo of you and clearly one of the hands is on her breath. You can see it's touching it.
The other hand, it looks like maybe touching, but she says you groped her again and you're on camera doing it and everybody's clearly asleep and you're creeping around in an airplane.
Could you imagine if you're walking back to use the bathroom on an airplane and overseas flight and there's an attractive woman and you just pause and take a photo like you're grabbing her breath.
That's pervert behavior that is degrading somebody, that is robbing their personal space, that is sexualizing them.
It's like a form of revenge porn, basically.
And look, Al Franken was known to be deranged in Hollywood. He was known to be deranged as a comedian.
He's a deranged anti-gun, anti-God, anti-family, sack of garbage.
And he's been calling for yours truly to be censored for the Drudge Report to be censored.
He said it's Senate hearings this week on Monday.
Anybody that's been implicated in connection to Russia, i.e. DrudgeReport.com, InfoWars.com, needs to be banned from social media.
And they've been calling for that by name in the committee hearings.
So this guy wants to shut up the First Amendment. He wants to triple Red Scare, call me some type of Russian agent with no evidence, with zero evidence.
He's got the hoodspot to do that, the bravada, the arrogance.
And then he also, he's been in the news, that Judge Roy Moore should resign. Al Franken was in the news last week.
We don't have a photo of Judge Roy Moore grabbing a woman's breast and smiling like a pervert, like a rapist.
Now, we're now learning that a bunch of the women are fake. We're now learning that Judge Roy Moore didn't get thrown out of the mall.
But I'm still here to tell you, I don't like it. I think there's something there. I think it's exaggerated. The Democrats jumped on it.
It's an old Southern thing. I was just talking to some ladies last night, high-powered lawyers and people.
They're like, well, you're not supposed to say it, but now, Alabama, 35 years ago, families would want their 17, 18-year-old daughter to date the 35-year-old rich guy.
It wasn't like a ranged marriage in the Middle East. That's really bad, but it's like a couple steps above it.
And I think it's creepy. I mean, I don't like it. I've got daughters.
And if somebody came to the door, a 35-year-old man, when they were 15 years old, said,
your daughter sure is a sweet young thing. I'd like to take her out. I'd say, listen, buddy, get off my porch and stay away from my daughter.
And if I caught the person again at, say, a hamburger place or something when my teenage daughter was there, I'd say, listen, buddy,
stop trying to rob the Crater. You don't get your ass dumped. That's word for word, what I'd say. But here's the difference.
The thinking in the old South is, this has been in the news, by the way, is, well, what if your daughter ends up with a thug or a criminal,
or, you know, some 17-year-old gets her pregnant when she's 17? The idea is, oh, shop your daughters around to the old rich guys.
What do you think sororities are, folks? Those girls most of them aren't going to college in these systems to try to actually get degrees
or to actually get jobs in the world. They're looking for rich husbands. And by the way, I've got three daughters.
I don't like that model. If my daughters want to be rocket scientists or president of the U.S. or in the military, more power to them.
Absolutely. My family's always had trailblazing women in it. But at the same time, there's an attack on femininity.
There's an attack on the power that women have and the gravitas of that goddess energy that God's given them.
And that's under attack. And the globalists want to control it and make women think they're the protectors
when the liberal Hollywood globalist system is a pimp that wants to control and enslave women.
And then it wants to be the arbiter that's in control of what is good and what's bad for women and families.
So Judge Roy Moore has done 1% compared to what we know about Harvey Weinstein's 10,000%.
Rape, assault, cover-ups, intimidation, payoffs, while pushing a liberal anti-family, anti-nuclear family agenda.
So he's got the royal flush of corruption. Kevin Spacey, raping young men, raping boys, the evidence is overwhelming.
It's all coming out. Totally protected a demon. His father, the same thing to him and his brother.
So the abused becoming the abuser. And then you've got Roy Moore with some really backwards type, super ultra right wing arranged marriage type stuff.
And you know what, there might be, when you start getting into that, there might be some other weird stuff going on.
Roy Moore is innocent. But I think with him, if you're going to call for him to step down and have Republicans line up like he is the devil,
then baby, we got devils far worse and they better be out of the U.S. Senate.
And creepy Joe Biden, I got hours of footage. We posted a bunch of it on infowars.com yesterday.
Creepy Joe Biden. Creepy, creepy, creepy.
It's just all over people's kids and fathers have got to push them away and Senator Sessions, granddaughters up there and creepy Biden makes a run for and Sessions slaps his hand off.
And it's, oh, and they'll have these little girls on the shoulder rubbing them and just keeping his hands there and then running his hands through their hair and touching their ears.
It is sexual. It is sexual.
Anyone could see it. If she was a full grown woman, you'd say, what in the hell is he doing?
Is that his wife on TV running his fingers through that other woman's hair or squeezing their shoulders?
And in some shots, he gets behind me until he's rubbing their butt. They start looking around like, what are you doing?
What is creeping? We got Harvey Weinstein on C-span. But his name's Joe Biden.
But where is it in the news? See, the media wants you to go, oh, look, Christians, conservatives, they're all perverts.
And forget all the pedophiles in Hollywood, all the massive evidence, all of it.
And make it about Judge Roy Moore and then make a bunch of stuff about him that isn't true.
That's what I'm saying. A lot of it isn't true. A lot of us just prove it. We'll be back.
Get your new manna today. Call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775.
You can find discounts available at powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com.
America is an information-based civil war. That's why now, more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot, who's pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts, or water filtration systems, or books, or videos, or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine.
You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash, designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
Infowarslife.com, or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
Think about what it'll do for you and your family. It is amazing. We've also been sold out for three months on biome defense, super high quality, probiotic.
It's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time. So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there.
We're really, really proud of it. DNA Force and biome defense, probiotic.
Now back in stock, infowarslife.com, and when you buy products from globalists, it's an act of trading with the enemy.
It's an act of war. It is an act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles, and buy products from us, and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
I tell you, Al Franken is in a lot of trouble. He's a big fat hypocrite. He demonizes families. He demonizes conservatives.
He's gone after Judge Roy Moore. There's a lot more evidence that he assaulted a woman than there is that Roy Moore assaulted teenage girls.
I'm not defending Roy Moore. I think it's a weird practice in archaic to try to date 16, 17 year old women.
I understand archaic practice is done so that you can control who your daughter ends up being with by the time that they become full blown women.
But nevertheless, it's got a real crepe factory factor for me, especially going on still 35 years ago.
That said, a bunch of what they say about Moore has been disproven, that he was kicked out of the mall, never happened, made up, the mall manager and owner says, just not true.
A bunch of the stories, it turns out, aren't true. Democratic party operatives, they're demanding evidence. People aren't presenting and women are scrubbing their websites and basically backing down.
But some of it could be true because this stuff is so pervasive in the power structure and in people that want to be in power and people that run for office.
A large minority of people that run for office are predators and they're seeking after power. They're not seeking after justice.
And so they manifest their lawlessness once they believe they're in the power structure and believe that they are above the law.
There's a long 20 minute interview with Leigh Ann Tweedon.
And again, it isn't just that he came on to her once and tried to kiss her. He grabbed her and forced it.
And then he was mean to her and then he called her names and harassed her for weeks and weeks on the USO tour for the troops.
And then he took a photo of her asleep on the C-130, flying back on the 30 plus hour flight, grabbing her breast.
Roper Al Franken, lecture conservatives on respecting women. Got another male feminist exposed, Paul Joseph Watson, infowars.com.
Now, I'm not going to play the whole 22 minute clip. It's up on infowars.com. It's on drudgerport.com.
But Fox has a nice boil down plus some video and I think she comes off very, very, very, very credibly.
Now, let's be clear. There are villains that are men. There are heroes that are men. There are regular guys. There are bad guys.
There are hero women and just regular women and then very predatory women.
There are women that throw themselves at you in the workplace. There are women that then use that power.
We've seen a bunch of cases of this with the lacrosse team and the black topless dancer that made it all up.
And we've seen the other cases of women that were caught telling professors, you better keep having sex with me or I'm going to say, you rape me.
And even after the cops basically, you know, in a famous case caught the woman doing that, she said, fine, I'm withdrawing my criminal complaint.
She just went out to the university and just made it up because that's what you're supposed to do to be a celebrity now.
But I'm not belittling sexual assaults on women because I know it goes on and it's wrong.
And I've had people close to me and my family, one of them when they were in college.
There was one part of the building that was men, the other part was women. All of a sudden the woman wakes up, there's two guys, hold her down, rape her.
This stuff goes on, ladies and gentlemen, it's horrible, it's suffocating, it's evil.
But again, you never hear about with men, do you? 80% of it roughly is estimated by experts in Hollywood to be men being assaulted.
And why? Because men will stay quiet about it because you think it's embarrassing to be a woman and be raped?
How about you're a man and you get raped?
It was embarrassing for me to talk about the three times Hollywood producers, the actors are just minions.
The producers were like, how you doing? Grab you right by the genitals as an act of power.
And you're like, I'll knock you upside the head, you do that again.
And then by the end of the meeting, they're like shaking scared of you.
And I'd be careful, are you threatening me?
I mean, literally after one guy grabbed me by the wave-o's one time an hour later at the meeting, he was scared.
So I told him, I'm knocked you upside the head, bro.
But the point is that most people, they get dominated by that.
Or is that I didn't punch the one guy at one time was because it was so shocking the first time it happened.
I'm like, it didn't hurt, but it was like firm handshake.
Like when Crocodile Dundee, as I've said, is checking to see if a woman's really a woman.
Because he's run into, I guess the words cross dressers or drag queens, whatever political correct word I'm supposed to use today.
It's just absolutely insane that we've got at this point in civilization.
But the media and the social engineers are seizing on it to blur the line, to blur the line between normal sexual friction in mammals.
I mean, you go to Europe, you go to Italy, and you're with a good-looking woman.
I was in Italy a few years ago with my wife, my second wife. We weren't married yet.
And, you know, she's a very attractive woman.
And, you know, she was with me and still the guys were whistling and, you know, saying hi to her.
And a few times she went to a store without me from the hotel and she said, man, those guys were all over me grabbing my butt, you name it.
And, you know, she's kind of a happy-go-lucky nice person. She just swat him away and everything.
But the point is, is that that's what mammals do.
Male deer are in the rut right now in the United States. White-tailed deer, mule, you name it.
And they are chasing females around. And they're fighting in front of females.
And the females are watching to see who's the most aggressive and who's the most handsome and, you know, who's pushing the envelope.
And that's what goes on. And there's friction.
And so guys are going to whistle at you. And guys are going to ask you out.
And they're acting in school now that, like, a guy asking a girl out or turning red when he sees her or handing her notes is harassment.
Or then, if she turns him down, he might be a jerk and tell people she's a slut.
And sure, it hurts people's feelings and it shouldn't happen.
And somebody's dad ought to kick their butt. But the point is, you turn them into victims when you make a huge deal.
I would say, oh, let's put you on Prozac, honey. Somebody was rude to you.
So that type of stuff is normal mammalian friction.
But now they have all these microaggressions and the so-called feminist groups that just want to control women and get women in the workforce forcibly and control them and run their lives.
Buy social engineers hired by the U.S. government and British government a hundred years ago.
It's all declassified and they've done it. The state's taking control of the family. That's the goal.
And so microaggression, the new workplace bigotry, there's never a way to be fair.
There's never a way to get along. There's never a way to actually make people happy.
And then the left uses all of these things and says things like, I had a disability. Even though you didn't know about my disability, I think you made fun of my disability.
So I'm going to go to the EEOC. They've had cases like that in the news.
The New York Times had an article out two days ago saying, can my children be friends with white people?
And it goes on and says, even if you're interracial and all these other things, you need to grovel and worship black people or you are racist and I can't be associated with you.
It's a cult of bullying. It's insane. And all it does is hamstring the people that are trying to deploy the political correctness.
They wonder why they end up totally alone without jobs and alone is because they've been turned into brainwashed mental patients that go around stirring up trouble
and have been desocialized where they can't even operate in society, meanwhile all the real pedophilia and stuff goes on.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 varts water.
Imrex Essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Imrex Essentials.
Visit InfowarsStore.com to learn more at InfowarsStore.com.
InfowarsLife is a great tool to help you relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff I said. There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
Alright, well I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
I just came back in yesterday Living Defense, InfowarsLife.com.
And folks, you can't lose. It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, InfowarsLife.com. Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
For every question they don't want you to ask, he has the answer they don't want you to hear. He is Alex Jones.
So Al Franken is in hot, hot water. He has a very credible woman as a talk show host, a model, entertainer, great record with the USO.
Coming out and saying that he basically sexually assaulted her, grabbed her, forced her from self-honor, kissed her.
He said get away. He basically tried it again more on the turf when they had to do skits together.
He has photos of him once she was asleep on the plane back, grabbing her breast.
And he had the photo taken. He was in charge of the turf. He had it put on the memories disk.
They gave everybody the participant. Here's your disk. Here's your CD with the photos from the month-long trip from Uncle Al.
And it's him grabbing her breast. He's so disconnected from reality. It's like Harvey Weinstein.
Oh, you come watch me shower. Then you give me oral sex. Don't say no. Everybody does this. I'm used to it. Give me what I want.
No, no, please. I don't want to. No, no, please. No, no, no. It's all about the humiliation. It's all about the domination.
It's not like a chase or something or where the woman acts a little bit like and then she, you know, embraces you or plays hard to get,
which is pretty clear when a woman's doing that. These are women pushing themselves away when they've never dated him,
never wanted to be with him and he just backstage in the dark comes over and grabs them.
He's in big trouble. Here's a boil down of some of the, I don't want to say allegations.
He's the one that took, had a photo taken of him groping her when she was asleep creeping up like a vampire. Let's take a look at this guy.
Fox News alert. Bombshell new allegations against Democratic Senator Al Franken.
That senator now accused of groping and kissing a woman without her consent. She was asleep 11 years ago.
Doug McKellway is live in Washington with the latest Doug.
Hi Harris. The accuser is Leanne Tweedendup, news anchor on K ABC Radio's McIntyre in the morning program.
She's a former hostess at Hooters, a winner of the Venus International Model Search and has done modeling work for Frederick's of Hollywood.
She alleges that in December of 2006 during a USO tour Al Franken, who was not yet then a senator,
wrote a comedy skit for her and him that included lots of sexual innuendo and also included a kiss.
He allegedly asked her to rehearse the skit and the kiss.
She replied this is not Saturday Night Live and refused to include the kiss in the rehearsals.
He allegedly persisted relentlessly and she ultimately gave in.
He came at me and before I even knew it, he grabbed the he put his hand on the back of my head and pause back that up five seconds.
She didn't give in. She said no in the rehearsals. He grabs her behind the stage.
That's the full transcript and shoves his tongue down her throat.
So back it up to what that guy just said because that that that's a misrepresentation, but I'm expanding on this right now.
This is the pig that wants to ban conservatives free speech from social media. Let's go back.
Then a senator wrote a comedy skit for her and him that included lots of sexual innuendo and also included a kiss.
He allegedly asked her to rehearse the skit and the kiss.
She replied this is not Saturday Night Live and refused to include the kiss in the rehearsals.
He allegedly persisted relentlessly and she ultimately gave in.
She did not. He came at me and before I even knew it, he grabbed the he put his hand on the back of my head
and came towards me and mashed his face against my mouth and stuck his tongue in my mouth.
And you know, I sort of pushed him back and I said, don't ever do that to me again.
And I was so angry and I walked out of there.
She says the tour wrapped up on Christmas Eve exhausted. They boarded an Air Force C-17 for the trip home from Afghanistan.
She says, quote, I immediately fell asleep even though I was still wearing my flak vest and Kevlar helmet.
It wasn't until I was back in the U.S. and looking through the CD of photos that we were given by the photographer that I saw this one.
She alleges in this photograph that he growth me without my consent while I was asleep.
I felt violated all over again, embarrassed, belittled, humiliated, she says.
How dare anyone grab my breast like this and think it's funny.
In a statement today, Senator Franken said, I certainly don't remember the rehearsal for this skit in the same way,
but I send my sincerest apologies to Leigh Ann.
Oh my gosh, turn it off. I don't know who that reporter is. I'm not trying to start a fight with that reporter.
But she said, I said, no, no, no, he grabbed me, his horse's face on me.
I pushed him off. That is not giving in. Who is that guy?
I mean, I'm just so sick of the twisting here. She did not indicate in any way she gave in.
So what is this half-assed defense of Al Franken? I'm not putting up with this anymore.
And one of the crew members made a great point. She said, notice that Trump didn't endorse Roy Moore.
And notice he must have gotten some intel. Others didn't.
And then notice he's had his great trip in Asia and has stayed out of all this.
And by the way, coming up after Roger Stone joins us, she told me about this not two days ago.
It was a day and a half ago, I guess it'd be like Tuesday night or something.
That, oh, wait, Al Franken, it's about to happen. Bunch of accusations, bunch of women.
And I said, oh, really what? And he goes, well, grabbing a woman forces tongue down their throat, groping her.
Boom, walk in today. There it is, drudgereport.com.
So we'll be looking at all the angles of that. But he said more accusers.
Well, that's now suddenly coming out. It's now being reported more women are set to come out on Al Franken.
So will it turn into a Weinstein deal with underage women? Will it just go on and on?
And we've got evidence here. We've got evidence that we don't have with Roy Moore.
We've got actual photo. But again, I'm not defending more.
I think, you know, I was court and 16 year old women when I was 35.
It ain't illegal, brother, but I think it's creepy and I don't like it.
And I understand this 35 years ago in Alabama. I understand.
Most people got married. They were 16 on the wagon trails. I get it.
Once little messy, you know, was a woman and she took a liking to Bob's son while they got married right there by the river.
When they're 16, I get that part. The point is, is that this is the 21st century.
And I guess I am a little bit of a conservative when it comes to that.
There's a kind of this other end of conservatism that's so conservative, you know, that you marry your daughter off when she's 16, because you know it's a good Christian man.
And you know what? If the guy's 20 years old and is a hardworking guy and good, that's great.
It just gets weird when they're 35. But I digress and I'm sorry. I just keep digressing.
I want to be able to think Roy Moore is a good guy.
If they're not gonna get rid of Al Franken, not gonna get rid of Weinstein, not gonna get rid of all these other folks, or Bill Clinton,
then I think, you know, say, I guess make Roy Moore president. He's not as bad as Bill Clinton.
I don't think he's a bad man politically. I think he's got a good stance is what he did, you know, in government.
And as a judge, I'm just, I'm just there. I don't support the Democrats acting like this.
I don't support the Republicans acting like this. And it just shows a crazy culture and a crazy society.
And maybe I'm just prejudiced because when I was 16, I was looking at 30-year-old women and just grueling.
I mean, I just always, you know, when I was 12, I wanted the 16-year-old.
When I was 16, I wanted the 25-year-old. And I just, it just, the bigger, better, full,
engineed, you know, high horsepower women, you know what I mean?
That's what I want is the real McCoy. And so I just don't get men that want a girl that's like a kid.
I just, I just don't get it. I just could not imagine being 44 years old and dating an 18-year-old woman
or a 17-year-old woman. It sounds like a nightmare, quite frankly.
Okay, let's stop right there, ladies and gentlemen.
But like, I'm very, very happy with my wife.
Like smart business women and stuff that are super savvy.
Like there's something about the looks and the intellect and the experience. That's sexy, man.
And dating some 17-year-old girl, that sounds like a nightmare. A nightmare.
But see, I'm mature. I want a challenge. I don't, I don't need arrested development where I feel like I'm over somebody.
See, that's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. And that's this corruption of the youth.
And I'm tired of it. And I'm sick of it. I'm going to stop right there.
There's no way for me to plug this new product properly. So I'm not even going to do it this hour.
I'm so excited about it. It's going to be a game changer for everybody,
and it's also going to help fund the next level of the N4.
You think we've devastated the globalist so far. Just wait.
Now, we had 10 different things up for sale the last week and free shipping.
All of those, SuperMell Vitality, you name it, they got down to such low levels that they're essentially sold out, so they're back to regular price.
The free shipping will end Sunday because we have to.
The free shipping will end Sunday. We ended the 50% off on the apparel because we sold out of almost all the shirts.
We're taking action. It was a great deal.
There are a lot of M4 Wars and Molan Labe shirts out there.
We have the limited edition, anti-fascist, anti-communist shirt.
The trigger is anti-fo. That's only for sale for another two weeks.
We have this new shirt of the month. That's available at infowarstore.com.
But we now have two new probiotics that are super ultra high quality and totally healthily produced,
but are lower cost. We have a lot of work to lower the cost and we have a new digestive enzyme that helps you to digest all your food better,
for better digestion, better health and better, you name it, better macro and micro nutrition absorption.
The new product is Carnivore. Massive, massive research. Free shipping is extended until Sunday and it's 33% off out of the gates.
The two new probiotics at infowarstore, Floralife, Carnivore and Floralife Everyday Maintenance, infowarstore.
Men, give your body the support it needs with infowar's life prostaguard.
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance.
Infowar's life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there,
but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend.
The prostaguard formula does just that with its mixture of plant based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men on the infowar's crew take every day and from our research,
it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now is the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get prostaguard on your side today exclusively at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
Emeryx Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by Emeryx Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The black plague is in Madagascar and the antibiotics aren't treating it.
You've got tens of thousands of admitted animal-human chimera creations that are on the ground.
The media doesn't even really care.
You've got salmon in the ocean that aren't extincting their regular salmon.
They're part-insect.
There's thousands of insane things going on.
Suddenly all these new super cancers are here.
The globalists have gone completely insane.
They'll believe they're going to merge with computers and become AI gods.
And we're busy talking about pedophiles everywhere.
Raping women, groping men, raping men, raping women, assaulting women, dominating people.
And it's all about power.
It's all about pushing it.
It's all about messing with people.
But we've got to talk about it.
Because sex is how we continue the species.
It's how we love each other.
It's how we have organizations.
It's how we interface.
Just like everything from fruit flies up to African elephants to blue whales to cotton-tail bunnies.
And why is there this obsession and this manipulation of sex?
Because sex is power.
It's deciding your whole genetic line before you and this person's genetic line.
Do we want to engage in an activity that's meant to create new people?
Oh no, that's bad. That's dirty.
But splicing humans with animals in laboratories that don't have any rights.
Let's have no discussion about that.
Let's have all the fake left virtue signal all day about how men and women together are horrible
and it's all rape and we've got to regulate it and control it.
Then the right wing's on the other end saying,
if you ever had sex on a wedlock, you're going to hell and it's dirty and you're going to be...
Which then just drives everybody into the hands of the system.
It says, have all the sex you ever wanted to have. It's perfect. It's wonderful. It's good.
Not that that dehumanizes you as well.
The other thing dehumanizes you.
I mean, let me tell you something.
Porn. Take porn.
I can't even watch it anymore.
And I'm not going to sit up here with our audience and be fake and say I've never seen porn.
I literally...
You know what I like?
I like typing in pin-up girls from the 50s and I'll just sit there for like an hour
on my computer looking at women as pin-up girls.
Or like a waitress in a cute skirt and cute outfit.
Like a woman cute and happy. That's what I like.
It's like...porn's like watching sausage being made or something.
Or like people go to the bathroom or it's like something two people do they love each other.
It just turns into this...
And it's admitted it turns into this dehumanization.
The men watching porn aren't getting girlfriends or wives on average.
They're not having children.
And when they finally get a woman, they don't want that.
Because it isn't like what they saw shot in a wide-angle lens.
Or they think, oh, I have a two-some or a three-some or a four-some.
That'll be the best thing ever because you saw that in porn.
No, what that is is a train wreck.
Because the people are all here, there, it's not real.
It's not a connection.
The real fulfillment is a man and woman that love each other connected having sex.
Because that's what's designed by God to then create procreation.
And then the act of love and coming together spiritually as you literally form a new creature.
Puts the finishing touches on it.
And shows these two people love each other so that they're gonna love this baby they have.
Instead of the product of rape or whatever the case is and then the worst daddy or mommy doesn't like the child.
And that's how you just begin these cultures of evil.
And the cultures where women are suppressed and where women are controlled or women are kept like animals
are the low IQ, inbred, failed, desperate, desperado, collapsed systems.
And everything the left pushes is a merger with Orthodox Islam that literally cuts women's vaginas off.
And sells them off at 9 in unarranged marriages.
You're worried about Roy Moore with arranged marriages at 17?
Roy Moore's the only problem is he didn't say cut girls' vaginas off.
If he'd have done that, he'd be leading the march with Lyndon Sorcerer and the Democratic Party.
America is an information-based civil war.
That's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more Patriot Feral at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
Well, how the mighty have fallen.
The photos up on infowars.com and newswars.com.
Well, it's dredgereport.com.
Groper Al Franken, lecture conservatives on respecting women.
I could not imagine me on an airplane with women that were asleep and then going over and grabbing their breast.
Much less taking photos of it and then giving the woman a photo of it later as he did.
But that's all part of the rubbing it in 10 years ago when he thought he was invincible.
Then they want to assault the Christian Midwest and folks who aren't doing things like this because they see us standing in the way of what they want to do.
But to control the debate, they attack us on our strengths, the fact that we try to honor women.
So we got Judge Roy Moore, we're having to back off most of the story now.
Most of the women are Democratic operatives or they're racing their Facebooks or it's not true.
Or we later learned that he wasn't kicked out of the mall.
But then he admits, I used to go around and ask people to date their 16 and 17 year old daughters.
Turns out the 14 and 15 stuff hasn't been documented and then Moore admits that I think that's weird.
But that's now the big ultimate evil and he has to resign.
Okay, well then I've got, we'll roll some of these videos.
Countless, literally hours of footage we've played before.
Back during the campaign, we were showing Bill Clinton the rapist, Hillary supporting pedophiles, making jokes about it.
And then Biden videos, there's hours of him grabbing little girls, rubbing their hair, rubbing through their hair, rubbing their ears, patting them on the butt.
I mean, and again, a full girl woman would kick him like a mule.
He just does this because this is why pedophiles like 10, 11, 12 year olds, because they think it's daddy when it's an older man and they don't fight back.
That's what these guys want is a woman that won't fight back when they dominate him and they control him.
So Millie Weaver, you yourself have been sexually raped, assaulted out in California.
There were even case news on it.
We're not going to get into names and when that happened, you know, eight, nine years ago happened to your sister as well.
And of course you had some success out there in modeling and movies as well.
But got out of it or now, you know, happily have a child or hooked up and doing a great job.
But you wanted to come in and I've invited you anytime you want because you're here reporting every day to give your view, your take.
All I'm saying is if we're going to burn Roy Moore, good burning at the stake of any of this is true.
But you've got Al Franken photographing it.
You've got Bill Clinton settling the rape cases.
You've got Hillary covering it up.
You've got Weinstein.
You've got the thousands of prominent leftist and globalist raping men, raping women doing this.
It's like, who are these people?
I mean, what is going on?
Well, you know, we're at this point where we have a big conundrum, a big argument going on right now.
We have tons of women, tons of even men as children coming forward having accusations of sexual assault.
And at the same time, some of these accusations kind of seem like they are aimed at people to take them down politically.
Now, I don't deny that, you know, women who have been sexually assaulted, a lot of times they're afraid to come forward
and it can take years for them to get the courage and typically predators prey on women that they know don't have the courage to come forward.
There's a type of woman that's going to sit in silence, not typically an extroverted personality type, and they target those women.
But now we're seeing where we have women coming forward with stories that seem very credible.
I think that this story with Al Franken and this woman, Leanne, it seems credible.
It seems realistic like it could happen.
Leanne Tweedon.
Exactly.
From the USO tour.
Let's be clear.
There are villains.
There are neutral folks.
There are great people.
There are heroes, male, female, old, young, gay, straight, Christian, agnostic.
There are good people in every group.
There are bad people in every group.
The big issue here is we've got people making fake claims.
We've got people making real claims.
But the point is with all this stuff coming out, people are finding the courage so a lot of the claims are true.
A lot of the claims are real and people feel like it's safe now.
And most of the people that have been accused, the Weinsteins, the Frankens, the Kevin Spaces, have had to admit it was true.
They're having the backpedal because they don't want to be in the news anymore before more people come out.
And they've been using Judge Roy Moore the last week as the total distraction from all the new revelations daily on people like them.
So now the Franken thing comes out.
All I'm saying is we've got him grabbing her breast in a photo.
He released himself through the USO. What does that mean?
It totally corroborates her story.
For my opinion, I think that she's telling the truth from the stories and the experience I have with women.
Plus the photo.
The photo evidence right there.
Franken released this.
He was doing stuff that he knew he shouldn't be doing and it was boisterous.
He even took a photo to show in your face, haha, I can do what I want to do with you.
And that was his message to her as a woman and is that somebody that we want an office?
No, it's not somebody that we want an office and we've seen this with this personality.
Well, I'm calling for him to resign because they want all these other people to resign off accusations without proof.
And I say they should be investigated.
We have him grabbing her in an official US government photo that he controlled that he had released for snapshots for the memory of the tour that he controlled.
He picked this photo to give the members of the tour.
He was running. He's proud of this.
He wanted to humiliate her.
He wanted to let her know he had a photo of this.
He thought he'd get away with it.
Classic Weinstein stuff.
So do you agree with me that he should step down?
I agree that he should step down and I think that law enforcement should actually investigate this situation here because you actually have a photo of him touching her, groping her in a place she wouldn't feel comfortable while she is unconscious, while she's not in a conscious state.
Which is what?
He's literally a vampire, but I like him into psychic vampires humiliating her. He humiliated her reportedly on the whole trip after she wouldn't have sex with him, after she pushed him off.
Oh, but Fox News even said, well, she finally gave in.
In her testimony, she says she fought him. She pushed him off. She didn't give in.
Exactly. And now she is coming forward. That's the important part.
And we also have to notice, though, that we do have women coming forward, that their stories don't seem very credible.
We've seen a tax against President Trump and we do know that all those got thrown out.
Exactly. They got thrown out. And we can't just believe 100% something in all of these cases.
But she's got the photo from him.
Exactly. I mean, boom, slam dunk.
This case, she has the photo. She's got the proof. And this guy should 100% step down.
And the liberals really need to come out and speak out against him if they want to claim that they are, you know, triumphing.
Well, that was my next question. Right before the Moore stuff broke last week, they were finally going, OK, Bill Clinton's time in the barrels here.
OK, Hillary's got to go away. He's got to get in trouble. OK, Weinstein's horrible. OK, Kevin Spacey.
OK, we do have a problem. But then they jumped on more like, oh, see, it's all you to change the subject.
Change the subject. Conservatives and libertarians will burn more in two seconds if it's true.
We'll throw it. We know there's a bunch of perverts in the Republican Party.
We've been going after these people forever. We want to bring them all down.
So don't think you just have some moral equivalence because Roy Moore is over here doing some creepy stuff when we've got you red handed.
Exactly. We've got him red handed. And if Roy Moore or any of these guys, you know, want to come out and contest the allegations,
I would say and encourage them to come out and sue for slander, sue for defamation.
Well, he says he's doing that.
If you're innocent, Roy Moore, in his case, he should, if he knows he's innocent, sue for defamation of character.
Whereas this guy, Al Franken, she's got the pictures. She apparently told her friends and told people there that this had happened.
Al Franken released the photo.
Yeah. They've got photo evidence. It needs to be handed over to law enforcement. He should be prosecuted.
Listen, if my wife or one of my daughters, if some pervert grabbed their breast on a plane and took photos, that violates all sorts of lies.
I mean, that's following people's lives in so many ways.
I mean, when you violate somebody's life, their privacy, like that, what do you call that legally?
I mean, it's groping. It's a form of assault. It's humiliation. It's like revenge porn.
I mean, what is it when you're on an airplane and somebody grabs your breast and takes a photo? What is that?
I mean, if somebody grabs me.
It's degrading. It's disrespectful. It's humiliating. It's meant to humiliate her and silence her and put her in a sense of low self-worth.
And where's Gloria Alred on this one? You know, she'll pick up, Gloria Alred will pick up cases for women that don't even have picture evidence,
that don't even have much of a leg to stand on as far as proof or witnesses that can, you know, corroborate her story.
But where's Gloria Alred on this one? Is it because he's a Democrat?
Why doesn't she ever go after Democrats? Because there's plenty of women that have been assaulted by him.
Stay there, Millie Weaver, to get your view on this.
Roger Stone on the other side, he told me about the South Franken thing before. It even broke.
I know it's coming out. More accusers are coming. Where is this going to go next? Stay with us. We'll be right back.
Go Berkey.com. We're call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead. That's true. But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties. Call Life Benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000. That's 702-660-7000.
This is Dan Pilla. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you? I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too. I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt. With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpilla.com.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public, so please take advantage of it today.
Support your own health and support the info war.
We've been testing and all the rest of it is the highest quality. Read about what it will do for you and your family. It is amazing.
We've also been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality probiotic. It's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really, really proud of it.
DNA force and biome defense, probiotic. Now back in stock, infowarslife.com.
It is an act of war. It is an act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles and buy products from us and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So Senator Bob Menendez reportedly laundered all this money and did all this stuff to pay for all these underage women.
And the underage women stuff has not really even been denied. And again, I think it's creepy.
Even though they're 16, 17 years old, it's not really pedophilia, but it's creep built. Okay.
But he just had a mistrial. So that was just announced minutes ago, a really nasty globalist Senator Bob Menendez.
And I mentioned that Stone told me a day and a half ago that get ready Al Franken's neck, sticking his tongue down, women's throats groping him.
And then I just left it alone. And then I didn't know, I guess he told do last night before it broke. So there's a record that we broke it.
I mean, I didn't even know that this stuff, because I just kind of like, I've taken on so many fights.
So I'm like, I don't know if I want to break that he did this and I'm going to wait till the woman goes public.
And Stone wasn't even trying to get me to go public. I just learned all the stuff and have to sit on it because it's just, it's constant.
I mean, we even know basically what happened exactly in Vegas. By the way, it was the Islamists folks.
I mean, they had the FBI grabbing our sources out of their houses and stuff and then releasing them later.
But I don't know why they don't want this info out about who really did Vegas because it only proves Trump's right.
Just like the Islamic attack, you know, a week and a half ago in D.C. or in New York.
InfoWars called it, correctly predicts Al Franken's sex scandal.
Senator Al Franken's time in the barrel was about to come. This is last night.
Well, the specifics from Roger Stone were groping and grabbing a woman sticking his tongue down her throat and expanding saying more coming.
Well, you've certainly got sources.
So let's talk about without getting into how you learn this first, what the next shoe to drop is because you told me again, day and a half ago.
And again, last night, more is coming after this. What should we expect with Al Franken?
Well, Alex, ironically, I know Al Franken. Al Franken and I were on the TV show Politically Incorrect together with Bill Maher, who, while I disagree with him on many things,
I certainly agree with him on the question of Islamic terrorism and marijuana.
And I never thought Franken was funny to be honest. I understand why he went into politics because as a comedian, let's face it, not funny.
This guy is no acroy, you know?
Yes.
Well, and he's a condescending snotty liberal on top of it all. But my sources point out that this woman anchor is very much admired and respected.
She's got a great reputation. She is well liked within the Fox family.
And she's got a photo.
Yes. And ironically, I understand she is giving her first interview to Jake Tapper. So it's going to be interesting to see how Jake handles this.
Yeah, why is she doing that if she's on Fox radio and that's not a good move?
Well, evidently, she has some prior relationship with Tapper, their friends, and she trusts him. Look, I think it's brave of her just to come out.
It's mortifying. To have a picture of a U.S. senator grabbing your, you know, your chest on the Internet.
It shows the hypocrisy of the left. In other words, Franken had to go down the line with the radical feminist agenda to get elected to the Senate.
It's ironic that his win has always been disputed. Many believe that that his seat was stolen for him through democratic chicanery.
Sure, of course, the guys that joke literally figured he's a failed, failed comedian. But you said more are coming.
OK, so you did predict this. You did have it from your sources. And so thank you for giving us the exclusive.
The next big bombshell, in all honesty, is in the Golden State, where where the assaults of various women by Senator Tony Montoya,
veteran Democrat Union Thug have been covered up by De Leon, the speaker, the president of the Senate, who's running for the Senate against Feinstein.
Meanwhile, Adam Schiff is trying to submarine De Leon. So he's the guy feeding this all to the press because he wanted to run for Feinstein's seat,
only to be rebuffed when she decided to seek another term. So it's, it's factor aside within the Democratic Party.
Sure, they're in findings, bringing him down. So a week ago, they were saying, get rid of Bill.
California is infinite from what I'm told. Just enormous, numerous.
You're saying bigger than Hollywood, what you told me that day on the phone.
Bigger than Hollywood is obviously California. The entire situation is going to be gigantic.
That's what I, that's what I, my sources tell me. And of course, it all, you know, it all boils down again to the, you know,
these are the people who pursue a radical feminist agenda and hold themselves out on these issues.
Yeah, exactly. Do you, do you notice that these men that are championing feminism tend to be the ones who are also engaging in this disrespectful and assault on women?
Millie Weaver, that's a great question. Millie Weaver, our reporter, Rodney Shotgun with us, Rodger Stone.
It's way disproportionate, super leftist, anti-family liberals are admitting raping men, women, underage girls, hundreds of hundreds in some cases per person.
These sound like maniacs. I mean, would you just run around all day like a maniac grabbing everybody?
Well, it's interesting though that it's coming to light. I mean, for how long did the mainstream media cover up for Bill Clinton's atrocious behavior?
Not only grabbing women, biting through their upper lips, demanding oral sex.
So there was incredible entitlement. So we've only got the tip of the iceberg. How big is the burg under the waves?
It's, it's just impossible to say. But look, I think we have to be somewhat judicious here.
This is a question of a woman who's happy to let you know her name, who's got a long record of credibility as a person, and she has photos.
Anybody can charge anybody with anything else. Roy Moore, he doesn't have a judgment against him. No court has found him guilty. He is accused.
Voters have to look at the accuser and what they say and make their own decisions.
And by the way, voters, the polls show aren't buying it. It shows how anti-establishment folks are.
I think, I think Moore's admission of courting 17-year-old girls is creepy, but it's nothing compared to Weinstein and others.
But what does it say that voters don't care all the polls show? They're doubling down. That shows the establishment literally is, is, is just hated.
And, you know, we live in a system where you are innocent until proven guilty.
And a lot of times the problem with this, this movement of all these women coming forward is we're starting to just believe every single one of them.
When the reality is, is that oftentimes men are falsely accused of rape or sexually assault and then they become vindicated.
So we need to make sure that we're looking at, are these women credible? Do they have any type of evidence?
We're seeing the evidence here with this situation here with Al Franken. So as far as with Gary Moore or Roy Moore, we don't see that same amount of evidence.
And that's why we should be questioning, we should be interrogating.
That sets the table. Let me come back and ask a few questions. Why aren't we seeing the same evidence?
A, B, clearly Moore thinks what he has done is normal under some Christian construct.
So, okay, but B, how do the Democrats survive this? But more importantly, C, what do we do if the Democrats are saying Roy Moore step down?
Republicans are saying it, but then all these other big Democrats and people are involved in far worse.
Let's ask Roger Stone that question straight ahead because there are a lot of other big issues like the Black Plague getting loose,
which now drug resistant and all these other big global issues in North Korea and the economy and great things going on.
Trump scores win with Senate plan to double child tax credit and there's a lot of crazy good stuff to cover too.
But right now is this big coming out of victims and I think most of them are actually legitimate.
They've been in the shadows until now.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Polistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
1-877-99-BERKEY
A lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2, SuperMell Vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean.
That means it's pure and rest secured.
You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
America is an information based civil war.
That's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counter culture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's class of the liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more Patriot Feral at infowarsstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarsstore.com.
Natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Palletol, nano-silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Again, the big $64 trillion question here is why is all of the sexual abuse, the pedophilia, the Satanism, the occultism, why is it all coming out right now?
Roger Stone. It's because the establishment's in trouble. Hollywood's falling apart.
The Democrats that kind of ran this whole thing, they're losing their power.
And now people see resistance against power structures, the UN, the EU, globalism, Hollywood, the Democratic Party.
So they have the courage to come out. That's why most of these accusations have turned out to be true, especially against Weinstein and Spacey and all these Democrat producers.
But you're going to have the Democrats try to jump on this wave and have their operatives accuse people.
And so then how do we forensically look at the claims? Well, if they're Democratic Party operatives or if they end up not showing the proof to get a big crest going, a big wave going, then you know that wave's fake or it's got to be suspect.
But when it's somebody like Frankenstein, okay, I'm sorry. Well, you know, that's just him trying to get out of the news.
But I'm wondering what the next wave is. You just heard it's going to be California, not just Los Angeles, not just Hollywood, but California and this elitist establishment that believes it can do anything and everything.
But separately, I think Trump played this perfectly, already had a trip set to Asia, did a great job out of the country and then didn't endorse Roy Moore up front.
You know, we were endorsing Roy Moore because he had better credentials than the Tea Party liked him. But I just wonder how uncannily Trump was right on this again.
Roger Stone, what do you think is going on?
Well, Alex, look, I find it stunning that we just learned that Harvey Weinstein uses the same heavy handed private detective, a nasty guy named Jack Paladino, who Bill Clinton used to threaten Kathleen Willey.
Or I should say Hillary used because Paladino was engaged by Hillary. He is the most likely the person who made one of her dogs disappear.
The other one was strangled and found on her front porch.
And by the way, he's finally gotten in trouble for a bunch of other stuff.
You know, her windshield broke in. He's the guy who runs up to her, jogs up to her, all dressed in black and says, essentially, if you know what's good for you, you'll keep your mouth shut.
Now, epically, working for Weinstein doing the same thing, suppressing these women. This is the party of feminists. Ridiculous.
It even came out in the New York Times. They had to admit that Weinstein was using a team of, quote, former, which never happens, Mossad operatives, who are part of the leftist group in Israel that's trying to put Netanyahu in prison.
I mean, it's just a fact. People think Israel is one monolithic deal. No, it's the leftist and the conservatives as usual. There's different splits.
What do you make of Weinstein using Mossad operatives against women?
Well, this guy had such a trail behind him that he had to silence these various starlets and other, you know, attractive women that he had come onto.
And he just, he became so wealthy and so powerful, they begin to believe that they can suppress all of it.
Look, you know, there's a real distinction here between consensual sex and assault. I never thought, for example, that Bill Clinton should have been impeached for whatever consensually went on with Monica Linsky.
It might have been distasteful, but that's not against her consent. It's not rape. It's not violence against women, which we know Bill was also quite capable of.
So I do think if you draw that distinction, but you have, as I point out, InfoWars broke this story. The reason I reached out to the night editor, Rob Do, was to memorialize it.
Again, tomorrow's news today at InfoWars. We have our ear to the ground very much so in Hollywood.
I just want to point out, I mean, you never say, hey, Alex, you ought to do this, you ought to do that. You kind of give me hints. So day and a half ago, I get, you know, you text message me, call me, hey, this is coming, I'm told.
I'm like, okay, what do we do? Well, let's just see. But nine times out of 10, we wait and then we don't officially break stuff. I think we should just start when you get something, we should just break it and say according to sources.
But I'm glad that you ended up memorializing it last night, because I didn't even know you'd memorialize it and broken it. I just said, oh yeah, Stone told me a day and a half ago, so I'm glad you did that. Good instincts.
Look, I think if you look on my Twitter feed, it actually says InfoWars exclusive, you know, Franklin's time in the barrel.
And you've been banned on your regular Roger Stone. You now have Stone called Truth. They haven't banned that yet. We now have Shocking.
This is very interesting, Alex. Stone called Truth is not controlled by me. They are people who are Roger Stone and InfoWars fans. They put up what they choose. They sell my books and so on.
Somebody had a parody site clearly marked as Roger Stone GOP. They operated it for two years. They rarely tweeted. They have violated no guidelines. I have no idea who controls this until the fellow who owns it told me he was banned recently.
So look, they're spoiling for a fight. I will be flying to San Francisco in the near future to file a devastating lawsuit against Twitter. I had a terrific conversation with Milo yesterday.
He is going to be aiding the suit probably as either a plaintiff or through an amicus brief. There are numerous others. Mark Dice, Joe Biggs. These guys have legitimate grudges just like mine. Perhaps they aren't banned for life as I am.
But look, they're wrong on constitutional grounds. There's First Amendment issues. There are service contract issues.
The point is they're massively discriminating us. And again, Al Franken on Monday testified he wants, quote, conservative sites implicated as Russian, with no proof. That's you, Drudge, and myself, to be banned completely from social media, period, an internet ban. He called for that on Monday.
Yeah, it's fascism. That's fascism is what that is. And it's red baiting.
And it's been proven to be a fraud, and they're the ones that have been caught doing it. Let me ask Millie Weber this question. What is this firestorm of sexual abuse and domination by the Democrats is only getting bigger?
I mean, you heard Roger. He said California is about to be engulfed. What's next?
Well, first, I want to point out the irony here that Al Franken was calling for conservative talk speakers to be considered guilty before anything else without any evidence. Well, I wonder if he's going to ask for a proper form of justice in this or deal with Mrs. Leigh Ann Tweakin.
But here's the thing here. I do think that we are going to see more. We're going to continue to see more women coming out and more child stars, even men coming out having been sexually assaulted.
But I think that we also will see more on the political sphere because I think that we're going to see more attacks on both the Republicans and the Democrats.
I feel like it would be hard to get people to buy into just only putting out false sexual assault allegations on Republicans and on Trump.
So you throw in real cases like Harvey Weinstein, this case with Al Franken and other cases so that you can then get people to throw out the entire group.
Oh, exactly. And I predicted months ago they were going to build this wave. They were going to burn Weinstein. They'd covered it up for years. They decided he had to burn the Democrat brand, create a new one, get rid of the Clintons, and then try to use that as legitimacy to go after Trump next.
By the way, they're now reporting daily mail that a 16-year-old says that Sylvester Stallone raped her and then forced her to perform oral sex on he and his bodyguard.
And they beat her in the head if she ever told a bombshell police report. I mean, this is just unraveling quicker and quicker.
It's going to get worse and worse and worse. Hollywood is full of filth and scum. These type of things go on there all the time.
And absolute power corrupts absolutely when people get amounts of power in their hand, people that can't handle responsibility, they abuse it.
And we're going to see that with powerful people, politicians, the Washington swamp. It's going to be there.
Milly, we were great job. Roger Stone, thank you for joining us. Please join us again with other big breaking news.
I mean, I should ask, you got any other giant bombshells that we should hold you over for? Should we just have you back tomorrow?
Stay tuned.
All right. I mean, Roger did break it. And I just wish I was just like Al Franken. I don't want to get sued. Let's just wait on this.
But then I guess he went ahead and released it last night so we'd get the scoop. So good job, Roger.
Oh, yeah, we got so many big stories that I just like, I don't mind the fight, but it's just like, good Lord, we have to break everything.
I mean, it's dangerous. All right, we'll be back.
Dr. Group, you developed living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right, well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose. It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com. Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
Thank you, Dr. Group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
