Big Brother. Mainstream media. Government cover-ups. You want answers? Well, so does he.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
Well, I told you Saturday in a special transmission I did here from the studios
that the word is a new special counsel is being prepared for Hillary, but also for everybody
else involved with Uranium One. That means John Podesta, Tony Podesta, Robert Mueller,
the entire list of the Legion of Doom, the normal cast of characters. And now,
former Senator and now Attorney General Jeff Sessions testifying today has said that they are
open to a special counsel and that they are considering doing it. It's also in responses
to congressional leaders that have already launched hearings asking, why are we going after Trump
when there's no evidence? But then there's complete open and shut cases against the Democrats.
Separately, separately, Donald Trump Jr. released his whopping three communications
with WikiLeaks during the campaign asking for information. I mean, during the campaign,
Julian Assange was on CNN. Julian Assange was on Fox News. Julian Assange did New York Times
interviews. He doesn't do them now because they just lie and attack him. But by the extension
that you're a Russian agent, if you talk to Julian Assange, when there's no evidence that Julian Assange
is a Russian agent, it's just crazy. It's absolutely amazing, but they're back at it.
There have been hundreds of news articles the last week by fake news outlets like The Washington
Post owned by Jeff Bezos, his anti-free speech monopoly man, going, we need to have Drudge
Report shut down. He linked to Info Wars. Info Wars links to Russian news. That's total mental
illness. Then of course, we did an analysis of it on average. It's an average month. Drudge links
to those sites 10 times more than Info Wars or Breitbart. So he links The New York Times and
Washington Post. Does that mean he works The New York Times or The Washington Post? It's just
next level. Ladies and gentlemen, and they did analysis showing how much he links to Info Wars
versus how much he links to RT or Sputnik, but then they don't show you how much they're linking
to other mainstream so-called mainstream news establishment news. But as you can see, the
traffic is way, way, way, way above. The amount of Washington Post traffic
that Info Wars would get is 10 times or more. We show up at what? About 15% right there and
they're up at 400%. So do the math. If we're at 15%, they're 400%. I guess that's way more than 10
times. I was just eyeballing it. What's the percentage? If I'm at 15% or 20%, let's say 20's
a peak and they're at 400% the links. Do we have a calculator? It's way more than 10 times. 20 times.
20 times? 20 times. So excuse me, it's 20 times. And the response that Drudge gets
for literally flooding Jeff Bezos with money and traffic is we want to shut you down. You're a Russian
agent. They have all these other articles saying there's a federal elections commission
investigation and a federal trade commission investigation. And Drudge then tweets out that
he's responsible for 37% of their traffic. And how do they respond? Urinating directly in his face
and calling for his arrest. That is the entitled SJW arrogance of a man worth $100 billion in one
company, Jeff Bezos, with the Washington Post hell bent on shutting down free speech in America.
And he even got $500 million this year in CIA money or the last things Obama did to run propaganda.
I mean, he even gets taxpayer money that big. We're running. The biggest specials we've run in
like six months and free shipping store wide at infostore.com. And when we sell products at this
lower price, we got to sell a lot of it from the operation. But I know the products are so good.
Even though we make a very small profit on each item, you'll like them and then order more,
especially things like the coffee. It's so good or our toothpaste or our mouthwash or our vitamin
mineral fusion fruit punch drink. It's got all the amino acids and multivitamins are probiotic.
All of it super mill vitality 50% off never done that and free shipping boom super film
vitality 50% off with free shipping boom bomb defense 50% off with free shipping with the free
shipping folks. It's a loss leader. You sign up for auto ship. We're losing like $6 $7 on this.
That matter. I just want you to see how great it is. We are now four and a half hours into the
worldwide broadcast. America rebirth and Renaissance was so much coming up today.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
Okay, to say that today is an overload of news again is really putting it lightly. Wow.
We notice themes that develop in the news without even looking every day.
I see five or six news articles of anti Trumpers caught with bombs,
caught with weapons, planting mass killing sprees. Now, whenever they
get caught, it's just a local news story. When they hit a big target like the church
a week and a half ago here in Texas, south of Austin, Texas in Sutherland, it gets covered up.
But here are just two today. Anti Trump arrested for killing spree talk. Had a bunch of weapons
was planning to kill Trump supporters. And there's another one leftist who wanted to kill first
responders found with arsenal 200 containers and bomb making materials. 31 year old Christopher
Langer lived with his parents and said he was planning to kill Trump supporters. He told them,
look at that basement dwelling mentally ill troll that goes around projecting his hatred of
himself on to everybody. And there are legions of these goblin creatures who think it's totally
normal to attack you. In fact, we've had this activist on before and again have nothing against
her because she's not sexualizing children that we've had her on before. She ever back on
very articulate, smart person, Blair White, the, I would say attractive trans. Usually they're not,
you know, it's kind of reflecting that she isn't super ugly and doesn't weigh 500 pounds, but
sorry, I'm back resting. Trans activists assaulted in Hollywood for wearing make America great again
hat. And two men wearing the little pink hats that we can't say the name of.
They come up and physically attack her. And then her friend is a woman goes after them. So they
then run from the women. So there you go. And of course, it's beta cock males, white males that
did it. So that's what they do. And this is all over the United States, ladies and gentlemen,
they throw stuff in your face, they punch you, they break your fingers, they break your nail,
they go after you. And that ties into this story that was just mentioning leftist who wanted to
kill first responders with arsenal of explosives, hated Trump was part of Occupy Wall Street Black
Lives Matter leftist panic over the possibility of having to spend Thanksgiving with Trump supporting
family. Well, I mean, you guys don't want families anyway, as you said, the nuclear family's bad
and evil. So how about how about people this Thanksgiving don't cater to their mentally ill
leftist family? I mean, just don't invite them. Let them go have the government as their family,
let them go out, quit, quit catering to them. Here's another one coming soon to Washington,
anti Trump hotel for liberals. And it offers all these big jumbo Tron TVs about how wonderful
liberals are and how great Obama and Hillary are, and how terrible conservatives are. And then
there's just, I guess, like flashing screens of Republicans and Nazi symbols everywhere. So it's
kind of like a reeducation camp mental patient center for folks that want to be immersed in the
lies. That's how to Bloomberg. And that's what Apple and Google and Facebook and Twitter are all
building their own little mini mentally ill cities, where everybody that drinks the globalist
Kool-Aid can go live in a literal reeducation camp, where there's flashing screens everywhere,
telling you you're a winner, feeding your dopamine rush that you're taking over America,
that you're going to break up those families, that you're going to sexualize children,
you're going to stop the effing white males, even though effing white males run your world.
That's what they're building is little artificial bubble cities. That's,
that's where this is going. Twitter, Facebook, Google, Bezos is announced, he's building
bubble cities where their neighborhoods with glass enclosures, where you only go in those
cities and the doors open for you. You need to feel powerful that nobody else can come in.
You just built your own elite walled city where the SJW, mainly white people can live,
calling everyone outside the bubbles racist. I'm not joking. Bill Gates is building them too.
This is the future. And then you'll pay for the exclusivity of being in the bubble.
These are true bubble children. So we have that theme developing here today. You want to see
actual schematics of the bubble cities, just type in Google announces self-contained neighborhood.
And then you look, it's, they're not so much bubbles because they're, they're, they're square
and then connect and some are bubbles. Of course, you'll be forced into these soon enough because
the GMO is going to be so toxic and all this solar radiation making it through because they're
frying the ozone layer with the chem trailing and all the barium salts, aluminum dioxide is so
poisoning the soil that you'll have to go indoor soon to grow things. So we can kind of see their
plan taking shape, making the outside so horrible that we're again forced into the bubble cities
that were promoted by the New York times, the UN and the zeitgeist communist utopia. And the leader,
Peter Joseph, with his fake name, came on the show and said, if you refuse to go to the bubble
city, you will be reeducated. And a few years later, we asked him back on, he said, I never said,
you'll be forced to reeducation even though we have the tape. And I said, Peter, we do have the
tape. And he says, you do not have the tape. You do not and say it doesn't exist. And we will be
friends on the phone. I'm like, dude, I'm not your cult. He taught just like the so-called
industrialist, it's taken over the world in the new Blade Runner. He literally talks with that
same effected, I am in control now. You will live in a bubble city. Robots will run everything for
you. They will tell you what to do and decide what you will be. It is total freedom. I said,
who programs the mainframe computer that controls our life. That will not be discussed.
You will be reeducated. Don't ask that question. Well, intellectually,
if we're all controlled by robots, who programs the robots, we will not discuss that. It will be free.
It will be freedom whoever programs the robots. Total wannabe NPR. I am in control.
There is no reason for you to resist me. Things will go quite nicely once you have entered in.
There is no need to resist. I am a friend. Simply providing resources that are needed
by humanity. Give up your individuality and you will find happiness. Just look at the
Davos groups report this year. You have no privacy. You own nothing. You have no friends.
And you've never been happier. Aren't you happy now with the robots talking to you in the bubble
city? They tell you when you can go out of town. They tell you when you could visit family.
They tell you what you're going to eat and who your most compatible friends are. This is a wonderful
new world. Welcome to 2030. I own nothing. Have no privacy and life has never been better.
My husband. My wife. Those are words we cannot use. I have friends. I have friends. Friends I
talk to. They're not machines. I identify them as human. You will be censured or fined if you
not agree with me. If I identify as being a blind person, taxpayers will pay for me to be blinded.
Then you will take care of me. If I am a white male that identifies as a Filipino female,
you will accept it. If you do not accept my madness, you will be arrested. This is all for the better.
I gave up my consciousness to merge with the machine to live forever. When this body dies,
I will live on in new bodies. Of course, that's all a lie. I'm now just a biological android,
not even a cyborg. Jeff Bezos, Zuckerberg, they will be men though. They will not take on the
interface. They call them master. Hello, Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time
you spend on conservative news sites. We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother? Get VirtuaShield.com. The world's
easiest to use virtual private network. Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers
and spies in the dust. Get started today at VirtuaShield.com. Take advantage of our free 30-day
trial. VirtuaShield.com. You have the right to remain private. The answer to being in control
of your own health care is freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients
that come together to share in each other's medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin
at $107 a month and 347 for families. Choose from three health sharing programs. Holistic
treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines. Discount programs available for
dental, vision, and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com.
In truly modern twist on this primitive survival tool, feel the thrill only at slingbow.com.
Customized Blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this is my favorite coffee. And it's
taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers. Drop by the site today,
order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in Original
or with our immune support infusion blend. You will be supporting a free press all the while
enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee. Available at infowarslife.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean,
I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high quality atomic iodine. I think you cannot beat that for children and
adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver
and iodine as well. infowarslife.com or triple-A-2533139. And your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic
pedophile armies. And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming
back against us so we need your support. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, form and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, coming up. The accelerated breakup of the EU is now happening as five nations
refuse to let the EU army come in and occupy them. Oh, countries want to leave the EU?
We have the secret army we've been building for five years, six years, and it's just now
going to roll in and people are like, no, you're not. So it's accelerating the breakup as they become
completely, not just authoritarian, but military conquest. That's coming up. We've got accelerated
Democrat professors and others, pundits, talk show host, TV host, mainstream anchors. Every day,
I see seven or eight articles with different prominent people saying whites are inherently
evil, need to be exterminated, need to not have any babies, or the reason there's problems,
you're inherently evil. The left has gone completely Nazi and it's mainly white people
leading it saying whites are inherently evil. This is truly a mentally ill group of people
trying to double down on their insanity. But first, I want to play Attorney General Jeff
Sessions opening speech today when he was there to testify about just the Justice Department in
general. It soon turned into a fiasco with Nadler and others going, you got caught lying about
Papinopoulos and what he said to some meeting where Papinopoulos testified he vaguely in some
meeting mentioned, hey, I might travel to Russia and reach out when he was just some unpaid person
of dozens and dozens that came through and Sessions says, yeah, now that I read about the
paper, I guess he might have said that at the meeting. And they're like, oh, we got you, you're
a liar. While they're the ones up there eyeballs with uranium and secret meetings and illegal
servers, it just goes on and on. So here is his opening testimony to address the false charges
made about my previous testimony. My answers have not changed. I've always told the truth.
And I have answered every question as I understood them to the best of my recollection as I will
continue to do today. I would like to address recent news reports regarding meetings during the
campaign attended by George Papadopoulos and Carter Page, among others. Frankly, I had no
recollection of this meeting until I saw these news reports. I do now recall that the March
2016 meeting at the Trump Hotel that Mr. Papadopoulos attended, but I have no clear recollection of
the details of what he said at that meeting. After reading his account into the best of my
recollection, I believe that I wanted to make clear to him that he was not authorized to represent
the campaign with the Russian government or any other foreign government for that matter.
But I did not recall this event, which occurred 18 months before my testimony of a few weeks ago.
And I would gladly have reported it had I remembered it because I pushed back
against his suggestion that I thought may have been improper. As for Mr. Page, while I do not
challenge his recollection, I have no memory of his presence at a dinner at the Capitol Hill Club
or any passing conversation he may have had with me as he left the dinner. All you have been in
campaigns, let me just suggest, but most of you have not participated in a presidential campaign,
and none of you had a part in the Trump campaign. And it was a brilliant campaign, I think, in many
ways, but it was a form of chaos every day from day one. We traveled sometimes to several places
in one day, sleep was in short supply, and I was still a full-time senator with a very full
schedule. During this year, I've spent close to 20 hours testifying before Congress, before today.
I have been asked to remember the tales from a year ago, such as who I saw on what day,
in what meeting, and who said what to when. And all of my testimony, I can only do my best to
answer your questions as I understand them and to the best of my memory. But I will not accept
and reject accusations that I have ever lied. That is a lie. Let me be clear, I have at all times
conducted myself honorably and in a manner consistent with the high standards and responsibilities of
the Office of Attorney General, which I revered. I spent 15 years in that department. I love that
department. I honor that department and will do my dead-level best to be worthy of your Attorney
General. So as I said before, my story has never changed. I've always told the truth,
and I've answered every question to the best of my recollection, and I will continue to do so
today. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'm honored to take your questions. Now, when you remember
that it's the Clintons in bed with the Russians, hundreds of millions of dollars we now learn,
Mueller on tarmacs with bag men with weapons grade uranium, Mueller in 10 companies at least where
he invests no money but gets millions back, totally illegal, declaring none of this just
involved in stuff that is over the top. Communist Chinese sold out to the Islamists, sold out to
Saudi Arabia. I mean, Mueller's a literal bag man for the Clintons. Killed investigations the FBI
had into uranium-1, allowed it to go forward with Congress. This was all in the news years ago, and
then they got sessions going, well, we caught you when you were senator last year. You met with the
Russian ambassador twice. He said, yeah, I said that. That's what you do when you're on ahead of a
committee. Pelosi met with him 30 something times. They come by your office. What they do,
constituents come by your office. And again, they prey on the public not knowing how this
stuff works to just keep acting like there's something going on there. Oh, you know, Donald
Jr. tried to find dirt on Hillary. That means he's a Russian agent or Donald Jr. tried to get dirt
from WikiLeaks. Yeah, I sent WikiLeaks a bunch of emails, my producer saying, please come on,
please give us the emails. That's what the news did. They take normal behavior and turn into
something bad. But just a few minutes ago, I saw this montage with Fox News even acting like
they had just caught sessions doing something. I mean, that's how crazy it is. And you watch the
senators all staring at sessions like he's done something terrible in the hearing. It is just
crazy, absolutely crazy, because they're running scared. They're the ones that did it. Let's play
part of that clip. Under on Trump's campaigns, possible contacts with Russia in the past sessions
denied he knew anything about contact with Russia. But in recent weeks, former Trump campaign foreign
policy advisor George Papadopoulos told prosecutors he raised the idea of a Trump Putin meeting
during a meeting sessions attended. And another foreign policy aide, Carter Page,
told House investigators he had mentioned to sessions he was taking a trip to Moscow.
Sessions saying in his opening statements, he always told the truth in the past and that he
answered questions as best as he understood them at that time. But lawmakers with plenty of new
questions for him today. All right, when we come back, we're going to go to those because, again,
you heard him who he got caught and you read the FBI affidavit and the indictment and stuff of
Manafort and others. It's all Papinopoulos keeps coming in and saying, Hey, meet with the Russians
like get out of here. Yeah, clearly a setup. I mean, it's so pathetic. There's nothing there.
They're so desperate. Hey, Daniel Brieman, why new mana storeable foods? We believe in freedom.
America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead. And we take this charge
seriously. We got options organic, no gluten without the chemicals, great taste and value.
New mana is a no lose investment for your family's food independence. Get your new
mana today. Call 885-970-775. 885-970-775 online discounts available at powerprepper.com,
powerprepper.com. Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has
finally come up with a better way. The bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary
table salt as ammunition. Non-toxic and no batteries required. $39.95 plus shipping and handling. Use
discount code GCN and receive 15% off your purchase at bugassault.com. Fire your fly swatter and get
your bug assault today. Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com,
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, deat free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint
mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant. Emmerich's
Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body. We carefully select
pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials. Start saving money and stop exposing yourself
and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new
Emmerich's Essentials line of organic products. That's infowarstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made from
high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract
and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper
sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the
rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our natural mixture harnesses the power
of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and
take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power
of knockout. Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
The rest of it is the highest quality. Read about what it'll do for you and your family.
It is amazing. We've also been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality
probiotic. It's 25% off out of the gates back in stock but for a very limited time. So you get
the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really really proud of it.
DNA force and biome defense, probiotic. Now back in stock infowarslife.com and when you buy
products from globalist it's an act of trading with the enemy. It is an act of war. It is an act
of standing up when you spread the links, the articles and buy products from us and then we
commit to rampage against the enemy totally. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
So let's try and correct the earlier testimony now for the record. Yes or no?
Did you chair the March 31st 2016 meeting of the National Security Advisory Committee?
I did chair that meeting. Did Mr Papadopoulos mention his outreach to the Russian government
during that meeting? He made some comment to that effect as I remember after having read
his paper. I asked for yes or no. I don't have time. I cannot imagine your memory would fail
you so much. But moving on, do you want to admit under oath that you did not tell the truth or
misrepresented or do you want to correct your testimony right now? So did he clarify those
previous comments that he made under oath Jonah? I'm sure the Democrats will think not.
I think that his supporters will think probably. I'm sort of in the gray area about all this.
I think he got himself into some trouble way back when. Okay, let's stop right there.
Do you want to know why I'm playing clips of Fox News? I can just play this off C-Span. We have
the clips. I'm doing it so you can see even Fox News. Last segment I played the lady intro it.
I came back into this segment, showed how they outrode it and it just went on and on.
Acting like Sessions has done something bad and then almost no coverage, even on Fox
of Uranium One, of Mueller the Bagman, of all the companies Mueller's in, of all the calls for Trump
to have the Attorney General create a special prosecutor for the Clintons, for Mueller. That
is the answer. We have them open and shut, but they knew how to start the investigation first
to make it look like if Trump retaliated, he retaliated for political purposes, not for justice.
Everybody played Mr. Nice Guy. I told President-elect Trump and I told Trump when he was president.
I said, Mr. President, they're going to tell you they're going to make deals and back off
and stop what they've done. They're never going to stop until you're destroyed because of what
you stand for. And if you don't start prosecuting them day one for the crimes they've committed,
they are never going to rest until they have overthrown you and the American people and
the electoral process. I said, sir, they're already talking about having new elections and
suspending the last election that elected you and getting rid of the members of the Congress
that are Republican who just got elected and having Homeland Security run the elections
and totally federalize it because Obama had just signed that executive order
when Trump was president-elect. He said, I know about that. I know about that.
We're looking into it and he goes, yeah, all the illegals voting. It's incredible and dead
people. It's incredible what the experts tell me. And I said, sir, I'm not talking about the
illegals voting. Obama signed an executive order to federalize all 50 state elections.
At that time, 15 attorney generals had written letters to Trump, president-elect, and to
Obama. Later, it was unanimous a month later saying, please reverse this.
All 50 attorney generals have said this is the end of the federalist system and a total
federal takeover of the elections like Venezuela. And I was the first to raise the alarm just because
I'm not stupid. I saw the executive order. We just put it on screen. Then Obama did another
executive order establishing a Ministry of Truth saying that Info Wars Breitbart and
conservative media is Russian and directing the Central Intelligence Agency to counter us by any
means necessary. You can go read the executive order he signed. And by the way, that was an
executive order that accompanied the bill he signed in the Defense Authorization Act for 2017.
And it says they will use the CIA on me to stop me. And then you watch Congress a week and a half
ago and they said, Paul Joseph Watson of Info Wars has a story about a Muslim attacking.
To fake news, what are you going to do? And they had to Twitter, Facebook, and Google say,
we stopped him at lunch, sir. And Congress will quickly went good. How do you stop him period
for being on there? You know, sir, we're trying. I mean, you saw them sign it. You saw them do it.
I'm not being melodramatic. In fact, I don't know how to be dramatic enough about this situation.
The articles I've got in front of me, when you deal with Stockholm syndrome, when you deal with
cuckolding, when you deal with people wanting to go under trauma and wanting to be conquered
and wanting to do anything, they're having Islamic attacks, stabbings, shootings, and rapes every
day in Sweden. The stories by Kit Daniels on infowars.com, one of scores I've got.
Let's roll that footage from all of America the day of the stabbing two days ago.
Folks caught a Somali guy robbing them while they were in the dressing room.
They called for help. He stabbed them both. Sweden under pressure to adopt Islamic national flag,
country known for appeasing Muslims in every possible way. Now, I'm not joking.
They have UN ads that run in Sweden, Germany, Denmark, and France. We played that show
super hot sex models, sex symbols, dancing with a Jeb's on and then covering her face saying
it's sexy to wear a Jeb. You have TV ads this Christmas saying celebrate Islam.
It's all happening. You're seeing footage of Mall of America this weekend.
Sweden under pressure to adopt Islamic national flag. This is no joke infowars.com.
Newswars.com, country known for appeasing Muslims in every possible way. And they've got a Somali
guy right in the middle that leads the group. A social media campaign is pressuring Sweden
to adopt the Turkish style flag due to Islam's rapid growth in the country. A petition asking
Sweden's prime minister to do away with the current offensive flag is nearing its signatures.
It has a cross on it as the campaign hashtag for better Sweden continues to trend on Twitter.
The sweetest flag is consistent reminder of a dark and oppressive past. That sounds like
the Pope this year saying Christianity is bad. The petition reads refugees and migrants are
forces to live under its Christian cross. A symbol of the crusades and the slaughter of
millions of innocent Islamic lives in Sweden's past that makes them feel unwelcome and unsafe.
Hey, Muslims, you started it. You started your Jihad. You invaded Europe for 200 years.
You ran over Eastern Europe. It's why people have dark hair and Asian addict eyes.
Okay, that's a fact. They ran over Poland. They ran over Hungary. They ran over. They ran all the
way up to the eastern borders of Germany and France. They took Spain everywhere but northern Spain.
Oh, oh, and I almost forgot we're going to cover this when we come back.
CNN has a story about slave blocks where they sell women and men up on blocks.
I've told you this for years in Sudan, in Somalia, and now in Libya since they got liberated
by the forces of the Arab Spring that Google and everybody supported and Bezos supported.
They are now selling men on an auction block saying they're good workers. They'll do a good
job for you. And that's they're being sold by Islamic State. And the reason they look happy is
they kill you if no one buys you. These are just men being sold because Africans aren't seen as human
under Islam. That's why the Blacks all joined it. I don't know why. I'm not kidding. Actually,
it says in the Koran, you're not human. It calls black folks horrible racist names. I won't say
on air. The modern slave trade was started by Arabs and they would have slave galleries they
used with Europeans they grabbed. And so all over there they're selling women. Now remember,
the Daily Show and others made fun of me a few months ago when I said slave blocks.
They sell women on slave blocks. They go, what's a slave block? See, Islam is all about slavery of
men, women and children. Islam is about sex with men and boys. Islam is that. Islam is that. Islam
is why the left loves it. Because it's anti-human, anti-god oppressive in its Orthodox,
while obvious form. There are seven countries in Islam where slavery is still legal.
Why didn't Trump just ban people from countries that have slavery legal? But oh,
we got here about America and slavery all day. You see to cover up for what's really going on.
And then tell Sweden, you better take the Islamic flag because of what you did to us poor Muslims
when we invaded and got stopped on the borders of Sweden and got stopped on the borders of Germany
and got stopped, got stopped, got stopped, got stopped. And we're going to stop you again. You
understand? We're running the biggest specials. We've run them like six months and free shipping
store-wide at infowargstore.com. And when we sell products at this lower price, we've got to sell
a lot of it from the operation. But I know the products are so good, even though we make a
very small profit on each item, you'll like them and then order more, especially things like the
coffee that's so good or our toothpaste or our mouthwash or our vitamin mineral fusion,
fruit punch drink, it's got all the amino acids and multivitamins, our probiotic,
all of it. Super mill vitality. 50% off, never done that. And free shipping. Boom. Super
filmal vitality. 50% off with free shipping. Boom. Bound defense. 50% off with free shipping.
With the free shipping, folks, it's a loss leader. You sign up for auto ship, we're losing like six,
seven dollars on this. That matter, I just want you to see how great it is. We are now four and a
half hours into the worldwide broadcast, America Rebirth and Renaissance was so much coming up today.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot
of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war. A 360 win. Number one,
when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at infowarstore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers. Number three, we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50. Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy
to forget to reorder the products that you need each month. Just go to infowarstore.com, select
your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you
another order. As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping on
orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
Infowarslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to
deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubble
gum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super blue fluoride free mouthwash and
super charge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient
ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing fluoride, our super
blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that
have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue fluoride free mouthwash
and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol,
nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowar
store.com. I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars
biome defense probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body. Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal
function. Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info
wars life.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally. We've been testing
this formula for years but this is the limited first run to the public so please take advantage of
it today support your own health and support the info war. You're listening to the alex jones show
I'm Alex Jones your host we are broadcasting worldwide info wars.com is our main site
and don't forget we've got all the other great broadcasts as well
we are broadcasting worldwide ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for joining us again i'm your
host alex jones the news sites info wars.com the globalists have made the decision it's official
the head of the EU has said it yunker has said it peter southerland has said it they're going to
conquer europe with islam there are a billion and a half muslims most of them are right there next to
europe there's going to be three billion total by 2025 maybe even earlier their numbers are doubling
exponentially every few years and the decision has been made to islamify europe and when people
would raise the alarm they would be criticized they would be attacked they would be demonized
well here's just the articles today officially they're pushing to change the flag from the cross
that the muslims say is offensive to the islamic flag basically of turkey and i guess it was muslims
that conquered what is turkey today when it was constantanople and put all the men to death
and then enslaved the people so i guess it's kind of okay because after all turkey was christian
and uh istanbul was christian it's it's now but it was constantanople it's now istanbul
and it just really blows my mind that to see this type of stuff going on and to just be witnessing
it happening in mass it really is happening it really is going on and then to watch mainstream
media the major universities hollywood demonize christianity demonize the west that ended slavery
that started the process and then ended it except in areas of africa and the middle east
and other muslim dominated areas where slavery is still the law of the land and in least seven
countries sudan samalia and now recently liberated by the globalist liberated the islamic state
controlled libya and so cnn though has all these big articles and all these big discussions about
slavery discovered in libya but then they never tell you it's islamic doing it or that it's okay
in the caran or this is a culture pushing it they just say look how terrible slavery is
who are the people selling these african men and of course it was really the guardian and
everybody else that broke this years ago they sell women up on slave blocks they sell women up on blocks
and there's news articles about it but none of our media will pick it up will finally cnn's covering
it but never telling you it's islamic in big long articles and big long news reports in big long
videos they won't tell you this is islam this is the countries where slavery is still legal
no they tell you america and the west is all guilty there are islamic invasions going on all over
northern africa eastern africa right down into central africa they are getting all the way into
the congo now islamicists and have slave trades out of niger out of ethiopia out of all these
once christian areas up into tenesia up into libya and then up into major cities like triply
where the slaves are then sold to islamic owners who take them to their slave plantations
now still many others as these roots are opened up
are then sold to aid agencies who actually want the people it was paying to have them kidnapped
and brought a thousand miles and then they're loaded onto ships paid for by the sword sorrows
and dumped in europe once they're there they get brought into islamic centers even though
that most of them aren't muslims and then wound up to be anti-american anti- european you cannot
make this up so again islam is running slavery worldwide and so every basketball player every
football player who's black has to ignorantly take on some name like kareem abdul jabbar
because islam fights for black people islam created the african slave trade
the slaves the romans took were germanic they were next door to them that's who they grabbed
that's who they wanted that's who they used
africans were rare in greece rare in
rom but you won't hear a word from capernick about arab slave traders running men women
and children everywhere instead he likes to be on the cover of establishment dying publications
to look cool and act cool as a mindless sj w and you're not going to hear a word out of him about
real slavery because it's not fashionable he's just here with the big corporate media as a rear
guard action a scorched earth policy of hollywood to try to get america to a civil war that's in the
wiki leaks but what cnn shows these men is nothing so uncool to be on the cover of gq super uncool
look how stupid it is once you're not the trance it's like pathetic it's like they live
not going to hear a word about the african slave trade for them or if you do if it gets forced out
they'll go oh and just never mention it's islamic or never mention that hillary and obama over
through libya that was empowering all africans and really doing a good job overall who'd come into
the west was working with the west wasn't supporting terror for 10 years and overthrew them and let
the most horrible islamic slave traders in who sell little kids into sex slavery and kill every
question they can get their hands on here's part of the cnn whitewash lebia this year
a man addressing an unseen crowd big strong boys for farm work he says
400 700 700 800 the numbers roll in these men are sold for 1200 libyan pounds 400 dollars a piece
you are watching an auction of human beings another man claiming to be a buyer of camera
someone asks what happened to the ones from niger sold off he's told cnn was sent this
footage by contact after months of work let's stop there oh after months of work is seeing
in that is nothing we've got the footage of them chopping people up and eating them selling the
women raping them stuff we can't even show you and it's in the foreign press but never
is it discussed who's bringing these people out of central northern africa most of them are animus
or they're christians they worship animals or they worship christ and they're being taken up
into libya to be sold i mean there's the bbc reporting on it humans are reportedly sold as
slaves reported each on the front line of the migrant crisis the migrant crisis it's the islamic
crisis that europe advertised these people to come north by the way if you're a tv viewer you
notice i'm wearing when i believe the coolest info or shirt ever it's made of really good
designer fabric super high quality it is won't tread on me with a big gadget snake great design
info wars dot com the american flag on the right shoulder on the back it's got info wars dot com
i love this shirt if you buy it it helps funder operation helps you meet like-minded people
spread the word uh our our apparel just gets better and better and i think this is the best
looking shirt we've ever produced i hope you'll go buy one today and help funder operation again
it's a designer quality fabric the shirts like this in stores will be $50 it's $24 we have a lot
of shirts that are $9 if you want they just don't have a soft fabric we have really high quality
ball caps with info wars dot com we have so much more and if you just simply commit through free
will we don't take your money like msnbc does with the taxpayer money they get through a government
funding we don't take your money at gunpoint then use it an issue we're just here high quality
products supplements books films water filtration things you need a lot of designer shirts are
selling out right now we have extended free shipping by the way store wide i should have added
but a lot of the stuff that we did have is sold out so the new specials of 50 percent off are
about to sell out caveman ultimate paleo bone broth biome defense 50 percent off that's about to
sell out phyton mineral fusion i totally forgot to even mention this hour i get so upset with the
globalist that we have got just a slew of super hike oh and michael sabbage is coming up michael
sabbage with his new big book exclusive interview with michael sabbage and so much more i get so
wound up in the headlines i always promote right at the end so we give you everything right up
front and michael sabbage is coming up ladies and gentlemen that's going to be a huge great time to
have him on info wars dot com prison planet dot com news wars dot com and again michael sabbage
with his new book michael sabbage dot com and the new book god faith and reason
vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to secure your chemist we have worked for years
with our chemist and scientist to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin
formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full
month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs
in the history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of
multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral
fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that
means it's pure and rest secured you're funding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info
wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out america is an
information-based civil war that's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of america
and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bully we're only intensifying
our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship being a conservative a nationalist
a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture the real punk rock is
being a patriot who's pro america pro capitalism and pro freedom who at the same time is tolerant
modern liberalism is a counterfeit of thomas geverson's classical liberalism they are the
anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide we've got
more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more
patriot feral at infowar store dot com be part of the second american revolution at infowar store
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show crashing through the lies and disinformation
it's alex jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
war so the globalists are trying to destroy society they got people who identify as dogs
now that we got to pay for them we mentally don't identify as a dog people that want to
drain out poured their eyes you got to pay for them as taxpayers you know it all starts with hey
we'll pay for my sex change next pay for my abortion now pay to gouge my eyeballs out
but here's mark dies transitional man don't say tranny or they'll arrest you in california
you know that's the word they gave themselves a white man identifies as a filipino here's mark
dies all aboard next stop is crazy town we're going to crazy town to meet this white man who
identifies as a filipino woman down in florida you guys have ever rachel dola cell right the
transracial pioneer the blonde-haired blue-eyed white woman who puts a bronzer on her face and
cornrows in her hair and identifies as black well now we have this guy who's identifying as
filipino and female here he is giving an interview with wtsp channel ten in tampa
where he says that he wasn't sure if he was a weirdo or not when he first started feeling like
he was filipino and so he started a transracial support group on facebook and found some fellow
transracial people which confirmed that this is just a totally normal condition there's trans
species music come around the food i feel like i'm in my own skin i'd watch the history channel
sometimes what do i think i'm like the president you know whenever trans presidential and you
know nothing else intrigues me more but you know things about you know filipino culture it's possible
i guess we can hope that this guy is trolling but this would be a pretty elaborate prank because he
drives around in what's called a tuck tuck an asian vehicle that is used for public transit in the
philippines and if you look into this guy's eyes he does look like a total psycho this local
tampa station that did this story even interviewed a psychologist who instead of saying that this
guy needs some therapy seemed to endorse his insanity as being totally normal dr stacey
stechter is a licensed psychologist with a ba from washington university plus an ma and doctor
it from florida state she hasn't had a client who wanted to change their race but she has worked
with many clients wanting to change their body in some way quote if somebody feels like they're
at home with a certain religion a certain race a certain culture i think that if that's who they
really feel inside life is about finding out who you are the more knowledge you have of yourself
the happier you can be and as long as it's not hurting yourself or anyone else i don't see a
problem with that what the hell is wrong with you you're supposed to be helping the mentally ill
not encouraging them at least rachel dolezal did her best to play the part she bronzed her skin
she dyed her hair she put it in cornrows but this guy just looks like a crazy white guy with pink
hair i mean if you're going to embrace transracialism you got to go all the way like this blonde hair
blue-eyed brazilian guy who decided to get a bunch of plastic surgery after he went studied
in south korea so that he could quote become korean oh so true story this really is him of
course he's wearing contacts and dyed his hair black but he really did get plastic surgery
to make his eyes squinty and if you don't think that's enough of a commitment to someone's new
identity let me just introduce you to ava tiamat bopham at medusa the transgender trans species
dragon lady who was born a man who now identifies as a dragon a female dragon and changed its name
to ava tiamat bopham at medusa tiamat is a dragon in babelonian culture many of you already know
what bophamette is this guy got his ears cut off his nose cut off got his eyes tattooed green
got his face tattooed and got some other implants above his eyebrows liberals have backed themselves
into a corner by accepting this whole gender identity insanity not just by accepting men
changing to women and women changing to men but the whole gender fluid and gender non-conforming
gender non-binary the 58 different genders that were added to facebook which then weren't enough
so now it's just fill your own gender in here's two black women on msnbc talking about rachel
dolazell the blonde-haired blue-eyed white woman who identifies as black and they say that she may
actually be black because that's how she feels i wonder can it be that one would be cis black
and trans black that there is actually a different category of blackness that is about the achievement
of blackness despite one's parentage is that possible it's absolutely possible i mean
there that that why not i mean why not it's called biology it's called science never mind
why am i even wasting my time i'm a refresh your breath with imrexistential's organic mouthwash
honor formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and
provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste imrexistential's
mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol chemicals or other artificial
ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes the pure organic plant extracts are concentrated
containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gum and freshen your breath
his antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula you will need to dilute one part
mouthwash to 10 parts water imrexistential's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily
brushing routine it is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker
sores go organic today with imrexistential's visit infowarstore.com to learn more at infowarstore.com
i'm Alex Jones your host we're now an hour into this worldwide broadcast and joining us is
a true visionary bestselling author researcher scientist dr michael sabbage
he's written many number one new york times bestselling books but he's got the newest one
i can't wait to read god faith and reason i think we should start first with the book and the time
we have him with us then we'll get into russia gate and the calls for marshal law the calls for
killing the president sweden is pushing to change their flag to an islamic flag saying that we
started the crusades and we're bad despite the fact that it's the opposite uh he was the first
person i ever heard like 15 years ago say that liberalism was a mental disorder and and i got
that some were clearly mentally ill but now with trump derangement syndrome it's a mass psychology
of mass mental illness and it's getting worse and the most radical ones are adding to the hysteria
it's like telling a schizophrenic oh it is true there are men in the walls coming to eat you
that'll make them go jump off the cliff so now the media has told them yes nazis are everywhere
yes everything's horrible even though the economy's getting better and all these good things are
happening they are literally going insane and assaulting dr sabbage myself uh women wearing
make america great again hats are being beaten up on the street michael sabbage you told us what
was coming so so tell us the next level what's coming next look i wrote god faith and reason but
it doesn't mean that i talked to god i've been looking for more my life you know what's coming
next is just finish the uh the narrative of where the insane go when the insane take over the
asylum what do they do they kill everyone in sight then they start eating each other they eat each
other they become cannibals i predict cannibalism is on the horizon which will be sold as a wholesome
alternative to veganism in other words you go all the way down the line of no living creatures but
now eat people because that's the natural way after all that's the way it was done in the south
pacific until emissionaries came along and told the savages it's not okay to eat your
daughter's nose which they did i spent many years in the south pacific the last piece of human flesh
that was known to have been eaten and uh the fiji alans was in 1939 in front of a missionary
when they took a young girl you talk about molestation they took one of the young girls from
the servant class actually a slave class in their village and they cut her nose off and threw it on
the fire to roast it for the missionary and he respectfully declined yes that's right missionaries
save them from cannibalism never given credit for that because the psychotics must go through hell
in order to be saved and that's where they're going but they're not taking me with them i'll
tell you right now alex they're not taking you with them they're not taking your audience with them
all i can say is if they want to go there good luck to them but don't try to take us because we
ain't going with you and what you're saying is dead on because i remember listening about two
years ago you said they're going to eat their own the next level of psychotic behavior is cannibalism
inmates literally killing the wardens and then finally killing themselves and they're already
politically doing it with donald brazil coming out and wolf blitzer and even uh uh racial madals
uh a brother uh over there uh haze or whatever his name is they're all turning against the clinton's
right now uh what do you make of this it's a game it's a shell game they know she's unelectable
so they figure get rid of her and get someone even more psychotic than she is someone more
power mad than she is someone more to the left if you want to put it in common problems than she is
she's yesterday's news she lost the election she's burned her her path is over so figure you know
burner what do they got to lose this way they can make believe they're fair and what is worse than
hillary clinton hillary clinton is power mad but in a strange way she's a centrist power mad person
leavened by her husband by the way who's far less crazy than she is i don't think you've heard
anyone say that bill clinton would be less of a danger to the country than hillary hillary is
but they're yesterday's news they're old they're not progressive enough you know alex you gotta get
someone who's um uh half lizard half human and holy insane in order to run for office and have a
uh a matchel rad cow uh you know supporter wilf blitzer i don't know what did it to him nice jewish
boy from israel comes to america makes a fortune and then hates the country what did it my guess is
all the carbon dioxide from all the seltzer in brooklyn that's what i think it counts for most of
the liberalism i mean they say carbon dioxide as a threat they're obsessed with carbon dioxide
without even knowing that without carbon dioxide there wouldn't be any plant life without plant
life we'd all be dead and of course what's interesting is that during the period when we
had higher levels of carbon dioxide i'm talking eons ago there was more plant life which allowed
more animal life to grow uh having said all of that all the years in new york city that
that the seltzer men were around selling these bottles of seltzer on trucks it was a very popular
beverage well i think that the little bubbles of carbon dioxide and the seltzer water somehow
crossed the blood brain barrier exactly and destroyed an entire generation that's now running
the media i can name them all wilf blitzer seltzer carbon dioxide toxic poisoning shall i name all
of those who must have been all odied on seltzer as children as they sat around the the tables
discussing carl marx and angles for breakfast and then was sent to camps in the polkino's
the red diaper doper baby camps where they could go to communist camps and sing the
communist intonacionale if you think i'm making this up people don't know anything about the history
of the new york liberal i know everything about it because i ran from them well absolutely there's
a lot of folks that would actually went through that that will tell you like joseph ferre your
friend from world that daily uh he was a young you know uh levin he's american but his parents
were communist in new york and they literally sent him to communist camp and we're literally
training him to be a weather underground person well i was never trained to be a weather
underground person i was trained to just to get out there and not get stepped on by life
and uh you know here i am you know alex it'll be 24 years this march that i'm in radio it was
purely as a result of praying to god to open up the red sea for me that this happened but i've
told my listeners that i'm going to tell them again today and i'd like to mention it to your
great audience okay what's this with a god book savage would you suddenly find religion it's not
that i found religion i've been searching for i've been looking for god ever since i've been a little
boy whether it was the little boy story that i tell boy in the papers in the street four-year-old
kid bronx longfellow avenue a jewish newspapers blowing up the street i thought it was a holy book
i didn't even understand the language but i thought it was a holy book i ran after these sheets of
paper in the street bundled them up in the wind it's a true story brought home this a whole bundle
of paper mom look what i found look what i found i saved this and she laughed and she patted me on
the head she said it's okay michael it's just a newspaper so i've been looking for evidence
the evidence the evidence the evidence and all i found are glimpses and here's my most important
point it's my einsteinian moment alex i discovered in writing this book why is god invisible to us
why are we not idol worshipers why are we not worshiping period blood and and and chicken
feathers as so many of the immigrants seem to do in basements you know with chickens and vultures
and god knows what you drive around san francisco they used to be in new york on the cars a little
st christopher metal on the dashboard right i figured the nice catholic people you drive around
san francisco they can't even see through the windshield dream catchers pillows voodoo dolls
this is a the meltdown of the united states of america once we lost our connection to the roots
of america which was deeply rooted in monotheism in one god once we lost that we started to lose
america and it all started with alan ginsberg timothy leary uh and woodham kunstler the three
most evil people in the history of this country who took this country from where it was to where it
is and we've only begun on this insane road alex you know what and i know you live it every day
so what are we on the other side of reality supposed to do put up with it well we do but we
got to resist the resistors because we are the true resistance they're garbage they're nothing
they're insane they'll go away like you blow them down in the wind and historically when
i come back and talk about the fear i'm not to fear them they're nothing they're garbage
and i want to know why the hell's angels haven't come out the plumbers haven't come out with pipes
the electricians haven't come out with wire and said cross this line that's it you know back in
the sixties during the anti-war demonstrations in new york the head of the plumbers union said
enough is enough with these scumbags and he called out the plumbers to come out to the next hippie
march let me tell you something the hippies never marched again where the plumbers were
and that's what has to happen there has to be a line in this country it's enough of these insane
crybabies all right michael sabbage is on fire today so we're gonna come back and get more into
the book because he's absolutely right he called it his einsteinian moment it's true once you have
just basic good god out of your life you disintegrate into human sacrifice idi idiocy the mass mental
and craziness is intensifying we'll cover it on the other side fully cooked ready to eat bacon i'm
talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy some i use some i store
some awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life nasa pack technology bacon
fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve life saving
ready to eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon ships free at fully cooked bacon dot com fully cooked
bacon dot com want revenge on the common house fly well after 10 000 years someone has finally
come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table
salt as ammunition non-toxic and no batteries required 3995 plus shipping and handling use
discount code gcn and receive 15 off your purchase at bug assault dot com fire your
fly swatter and get your bug assault today most people think life insurance pays after you're
dead that's true but did you know you can have tax free access to your life insurance while you're
still alive you can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees no stock market risk no tax risk and no penalties call life benefits if you'd like
a free book about how this can be done call 702 660 7000 that's 702 660 7000 water is the
single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your
family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest
price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to go burky dot com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com
not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it
why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me
the most i mean i try to make sure that i don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system but right now we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your
body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around
we have biological warfare going on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about all this
episode there's so many things that are in it you have the neem in there you have the organic
clove bud the organic wormwood i recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year all right
well i'm glad we've got some back in because i'm going back on it today it just came back in
yesterday living defense info wars life dot com and folks you can't lose full of stuff that's great
for your body period and uh you support the broadcast info wars lives dot com thank you
doctor group from the global healing center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great
product you go to info wars store dot com and get game changing amazing products we've been sold out
of dna force for almost four months easy ingredients start nutraceutical grade the highest quality
the bio pqq all of it it's 25 off the truck got in this morning and it's back but it is a limited
run because of all the testing and all the rest of it is the highest quality read about what it'll
do for you and your family it is amazing we also been sold out for three months on biome defense
super high quality probiotic it's 25 off out of the gates back in stock but for a very
limited time so you get the highest quality the very cleanest stuff out there we're really really
proud of it dna force and biome defense probiotic now back in stock info wars life dot com and when
you buy products from globalist it's an active trading with the enemy it is an act of war it is
an act of standing up when you spread the links the articles and buy products from us and then we
commit rampage against the enemy totally you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
so all right i'm not going to be talking much because savage rarely gets wound up here on the
air and a lot of times when he does he gets so angry he's got to go off the air i'm gonna try to just
let him flow because he's in in in rare form today and i love it as long as he'll stay with us this
hour or much of this hour he's got the new book out that i can't wait to read god faith and reason
michael savage the fact that michael savage was looking for god like carl yung you know was
seeing an archetype meant that he had god stamp on him people that are looking to destroy god and
overturn goodness and overturn decency then and who say there isn't a god and who are saying that
basically they're god or they're going to destroy god or they're going to worship human sacrifice
so they're going to worship ugliness they're of their father the devil i don't care what religion
or culture you come from when you look at globalism the leftist the soviets the nazis always
authoritarian systems they had a bloodlust to run everybody else's lives to control language
and basically had a mass psychology and a will to kill and that's what michael savage was starting
to get into and now we see the left going yeah we want guns we're going to kill you and we're
communist and we hate you and we're going to bring in radical islamics and we're going to you know
let them promote slavery in their own countries we're going to have muslim women who are hardcore
islamicist like linda sore sir lead women's marches we now learn what it's really all about
as the gloves come off the mass comes off and we're face to face with 21st century evil michael
savage you were on fire last segment i'm showing footage of mall america from two days ago on our
tv feed where we're a somali man stabbed another two people screaming a la oct bar and now many
areas of the country look like somalia please continue well on my website i put up somali
muslim stabs they didn't report that they said it was a burglary gone wrong i never saw such
propaganda in my life trump calls it fake news this is not fake news this is beyond gerbils
what we're seeing i have never thought i'd live through a time when you look at people
in the media they look normal they look like they want to live they don't look suicidal you know
you know ordinary men women of all races they're insane they're suicidal they're digging their
children's graves what what is it going to take for them to understand that they are the problem
they're the gatekeepers of information we're marginal you have a small show that's large
in reach and power i have a show that's small and away but very large in reach and power
alex can we save the country from these insane bastards before it's too late well this is different
than other countries we're not disarmed we haven't been been disarmed and let me tell you something
there are tens of thousands of retired military retired cops and unretired military and unretired
cops no one's stepping on them it's just not going to be as easy as it was in 1917 in russia
where the guns have been seized it's certainly not going to be as easy as the knocking on the door
in germany poland hungary in the other places where the jews and others had been disarmed
and let me tell you and is that why they're so upset is because our ancestors laid down provisions
for just their type of scum i don't know who we're talking about we say they who's the head of this
i mean who are the leftist mentally ill devil where how many are there how many wait how many
are there of these bogeymen who are they who are the who's actually they're the sjw's they're the
mainstream media they're it's the hollywood crowd it's the big mega banks it's all the elites that
want to it's people like jeff bezos who gets all this taxpayer money and and and all these monopolies
and then he's literally working with the washington post to try to shut me and matt drudge and others
down and calling us all russian agents yeah i saw that's crazy about drudge i mean it's unbelievable
i mean this guy is sends more traffic to the washington post than anyone else and they attack
him to show you how insane they really are but let's forget bezos for one minute we say the enemy
the enemy there they want to get us you touched on an important point okay god the way we know
god christians or jews in this country gives us free will we're the ultimately ultimately the most
free people on earth if we actually believe in god we come to understand we have free will
he gave us life but we have free will to act out our lives the opposite are the statists or the
central governmentists if you want to call them all of these other demons they say no you have no
free will we are your will we are your will we are the hitlers we are the stolons we are the
musilines we are the pulpots we tell you what shall be we are your will you have no freedom
you're just a moat in the mire a moat in the mire you're nothing and that is the greatest threat to
these globalists which is free will individualism if you want to call it that so i as a tremendously
independent individual no one i never liked anyone telling me what to do it's just a part
of my nature it doesn't mean i'm a tough guy i'm not i'm not bulletproof i'm just resistant
to people telling me what to do you're not taking it lying down whether it was a teacher
saying to me when i was young you're not a gentleman i used to hear that all the time
i didn't want to be a gentleman what do you mean you're not a gentleman what does that mean remember
how they train kids you're not a gentleman what do you want me to do what do you want to step on
me and put on a skirt you want to turn me into like a trans uh whatever i mean get off my back
don't tell me what to do i'll tell you what to do so now we we're facing this thing with god let's
go back to god the e equals mc squared moment i didn't even explain this most important thing
okay so all my life i look for god i can't find him i'm saying where's god where's god i can't
see him the buddhist worship a statue right in essence they're idol worshipers i love their
poetry but basically you're worshiping an idol all of these catholics who left catholicism
to fake buddhism you know with the hands in the restaurants like thank you for the water
and they thank the way to 50 times for a napkin they don't even know what buddhism is that's not
buddhism the fallen american religious person who becomes a buddhist they don't even know what buddhism
is okay so now we come to us we can't find god we can't see god we can't touch god why
aha the moment god doesn't want us to see him feeling and touch him why because in searching
for him everywhere that's the finding in searching we find that's the success by the way i hadn't
read your book but you notice i just said that it the fact that you were seeking as a child
showed i mean that that's the proof right there well i always was looking for his presence whether
it was the newspaper blowing down the street or looking at cloud formations or studying the stars
or you know i became a biologist for a reason which was to uh you know when i first saw the
bones of a bird in anatomy and i said oh my god look how god or the grand designer
created the birds of a the bones of a bird are hollow why are they hollow so the bird can fly
the bones are lighter than ours right mammalian bones are not hollow the birds bones have holes
in them in essence this is so genius right and then you look at the bird's wing fold it up and
you unfold it and you see an anatomical anatomical similarities to our hands and you say there has
to be a grand design then you study einstein you know the kids in college have the picture with
the crazier with the tongue out that was an einstein einstein is the man who went to the
perimeters of the universe and came back and said the more i study the outreaches of the
universe the more i'm the more i have to the more i understand there has to be a god that's
what einstein actually said in his later years he wasn't this great atheistic hippie and that's
the left triumph is they take icons and turn them towards their service let's come back and talk
about your einstein moment straight ahead with michael sabbage the new book god faith and reason
this is something you want to read and share with people i'm alex jones info wars dot com michael's
got a dog in his lab we're gonna come back well that's my mascot and by the way he's real because i
feel he's real just like your trans people is he real do you identify as a walrus maybe i do he looks
like he looks real he sounds real exactly what could be better than the answer to being in control
of your own health care is freedom from insurance become part of a group of self-pay patients that
come together to share in each other's medical expenses individual share amounts begin at one
hundred seven dollars a month and 347 for families choose from three health sharing programs holistic
treatments may be eligible for sharing see guidelines discount programs available for dental
vision and pharmacy go to liberty on call dot org that's liberty on call dot org it's a no brainer
a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that removes chlorine
fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides bacteria viruses and much
more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in
gravity water filtration big burky and now gcn listeners receive five percent off ceramic filter
systems using code gcn call or click 187799 burky or big burky water filters dot com that's 187799
burky men give your body the support it needs with info wars life prostagard it's time to start
assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance info wars life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas that you can use on a
daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend the prostagard
formula does just that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give
your body total support it's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto lycopene plant sterols zinc vitamin
d3 selenium and copper prostagard is something that the men on the info wars crew take every day
and from our research it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in
order to keep their body going at optimal levels now's the time to start naturally supporting
your body get prostagard on your side today exclusively at info wars life dot com that's info
wars life dot com protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emrex essentials perfect for
face and body this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you
need sun protection we source ingredients from nature producing a product free of harmful chemicals
and toxins this natural lotion contains 21 zinc oxide which is the largest particle size used
and we do not use nanoparticles the larger the particle the safer it is for your body the organic
oils help hydrate the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen
for the most sensitive skin emrex essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you
organic products to enhance your life naturally protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion
by emrex essentials stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit info wars
store dot com and learn more about the new spf 30 sunscreen lotion i want to plow into all of this
that i'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that
when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info
wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clearer and so it is
essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com i want to thank everybody that
has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality
atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash
designed by dr jones that's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com
or triple a 253 3139 and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands
with trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are
and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance lie from the info wars dot com
studios it's alex jones and michael savage what a treat god faith and reason michael savage
number one new york times best selling author i cannot wait to read this book in fact once the
kids go to bed tonight i'm gonna start getting into it uh then i'll take two in the morning
reading the whole thing i will get it read by this weekend because the more i borrow into the
mental illness of the left they're a bunch of people that want to be alphas but they don't
want the responsibility and they're not real intellectuals they want to savor the intellectuals
then create an authoritarian system where all thought has to be approved by them that's called
a cult and they are waging war with any stable civilization because they want to conquer it
instead of joining with it it's it's it's it's just a bunch of betas getting together and trying
to be alphas is my view and michael savage if he just joined us was getting into i like out of the
brave new world analogy alpha beta gamma delta i think they're more like deltas you look at guys like
will flitzer do you actually think he's even a beta these people are fakers there's nothing
there there's no education there's no knowledge there's no history or you bring others up well
what have they actually achieved who are they what have they written that anyone will remember
alex i have to interject right now because i believe my book today this one is my most
important book i think it's the definitive book i've written that could lead america back to the
standards we hold in esteem it may sound too megalomaniacal for most people but you know what's
so what i've got to say it if i won't who will if i'm not for myself who will be if i'm only for
myself who but it's no brag just fact if if not for people like you and a few others matt drudge
donald trump let's say it myself and a few others if we weren't here we would have lost so we have
to admit we are the resistance our audience is really the key and so it's true we would be totally
defeated if it wasn't for us and that means our audience let's just we we're not taking credit
we're saying we've got the munitions that will blow the enemy up we'd be out of we'd be out of
business alex i want to do something for you in your audience which is this you know there's a lot
of books there's a lot of hackney writing this is my my magnus opus it's based on my entire life
quest can i read you a half of a page hey please take over please do the next segment you've got
the floor go ahead i was at a funeral for a friend a friend's father and um i had told a friend of mine
who was an american you know a world war two hero who was a bit of a nazi i loved him anyway we're
friends we argue all the time but we had a mutual respect for each other and we fight argue whatever
so my friend's father dies henry had survived or switch they cut three of his hands fingers off
in a saw he was an extremely bitter man so he dies and so i go to the funeral and my friend
the nazi kind of nazi sympathies was bob so i'm going to read from there it's a half a page so bob
shut his mouth that night many years ago and as i've said he tends to harbor certain nazi sentiments
so when i told him about murray's mutilated hand i wasn't surprised at his lack of immediate
pitting sounds but i like a challenge so i went on murray never cried about his hand i told bob he
came to america with florence who he met somewhere over there and had a family namely joel he was
full of life this murray he was a big drinker he loved women he beat his son with a strap but he
was a big personality bob nodded at that i think the anti-semide in him liked the never cried and
beat his son parts of murray so i proceeded with my funeral story i had lost touch with my friend
joel for a few years his wife threw him out for beating her and at least one of their daughters
and he was in one of his episodic hideings this time from the sheriff's department they were after
him for his house and all his earnings to give to his greedy wife somehow i heard his father murray
had cancer and was dying i called his mother and went over a few days later we brought over a bag
of groceries you know french bread a pound of sliced turkey some wines and vegetables and a quarter
milk the usual stuff you bring with someone sick poor at housebound florence and joel greeted us at
the door of their little one bedroom apartment i always liked it there remembering the holidays of
my own house when i was a boy having been in the antique business like my deceased father benny
the place was filled with oversized high quality furniture and paintings murray was in a bathroom
but a gigantic english armchair shrunken but beautiful in a way he pulled me close and said
michael michael i remember when you took me and and joel to berkeley almost 20 years ago i know
you almost 20 years that's not a short time he said you took me to a bar on telegraph avenue
michael those were the good times now are the bad times bob i prodded you hear this i extend one
good d 20 years ago and this guy remembers it's like one of the best moments of his life there's
one drink i bought him so he goes fast into the hospital where he insists they let him out
probably to die at home and three or four days later boom it's over like that joel told me
he had been sick most of the night vomiting probably those toxic chemicals he forces himself up
and says joel she's there on your left the angel of death joel gets scared he says pop there's
nobody here but me and mom murray stares at the big chair across the small room to your right joel
on the couch there there he stands up starts to walk across the room and collapses i can see that
even the anti-semite bob is tearing up wiping the tears from his face listen you racist bastard i said
to him looking at that hole in the ground with murray's casket so bare and hearing the rabbi's
ancient chant and watching the young mexican gravediggers moved by that chant i became reminded
reminded of my own whole waiting i never knew where i wanted to live i whispered to joel's
friend from israeli intelligence and i sure don't know where i want to die that we never
know where we're going to die he reminded me with a 70s rockers cackle and grin
that's it i write jazz see people think of me in a way that i'm not they make me into what i'm not
they categorize you they categorize me i'm fundamentally a poet and a writer who's also
got some political beliefs i'm not a politician who also writes and they want to challenge me on a
literary level if they want to challenge me let them write something better than that it's in god
faith and reason this is not a book of preachy this is a book of stories well exactly in the
what i get from that is death's the great equalizer and all of our shared humanity and struggles
together unify us if you tell stories about life and death and friends it brings everybody together
some you know a holocaust survivor or some guy with nazi sympathies that's why they want to keep us
divided and dumb the culture down because literature like that that points out real feelings we had
unifies us in our humanity and our life and our death the division is what we're talking about
and we have to remember that as the true resistance isn't interesting how smart the devil is they take
we who are the resistance and make themselves into resistors exactly i see all these dumb idiots
driving around here in san francisco with the bumper stick is to say resist and you've been
saying and i've been saying we are the resistance for decades suddenly they're the resistance no
we haven't taken the country back we're just beginning to to to pull the the other the plus out
well i understand all of it the hatred for donald trump is not really a hatred for donald trump
it's a hatred for white heterosexual christian males we know that everyone knows that it's
because he's a white heterosexual christian male it's not because he is a left winger or a right
winger they just wanted somebody other than a white heterosexual christian male in the white
house period and the story i was gonna ask you that we do one more little segment of the break
now suddenly it's a coming out not mainly by minorities mainly white people and others saying
whites are evil get rid of them if you have a white baby abort it major feminist magazines
this isn't just a few people the left is really showing us that they're anti christian anti white
to a larian level but reversed but hitler wasn't a christian he was anti christian
this is how it started this is what they do they demonize us first then they march us into the
camps and then they kill us i'm warning people out there it's much worse than they think it starts
with an idea the holocaust started with an idea written by a french anti-semite a long time before
the ovens were actually built a long time before the zyklon b was actually manufactured i'm warning
everybody listening to me these professors are the true evil nazis of our time these must be
weeded out like the poison that they are and the universities that harbor these evil failed
intellects must be called on the carpet as well i blame the universities i don't blame these marginal
psychotics pol pot how did pol pot start a little tiny guy in cambodia he went to paris to study
marxism he became enthralled with marxism he came back and introduced marxism in cambodia
he put together the 13 year olds the 14 year olds he gave them the red uh bandanas he called them the
red brigades what did the red brigades do the camea rouge they went and they started by humiliating
the middle class their own race now doctors lawyers engineers architects hold on do one more segment
explain the process of how they get a group ready to be exterminated and you see it again
exactly being followed formulaically and then you hear the weatherman and others saying we're
going to round up the christians and conservatives we're going to kill you i'm very proud to announce
the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out
with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall
digestion and health and detoxification in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50
billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to
support digestion and intestinal function our researchers are confident that we have been able
to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market secure your biome defense in ultra
strength or regular strength at info wars life dot com today and get started supporting your
digestive system naturally we've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited
first round of the public so please take advantage of it today support your own health and support
the info war we're running the biggest specials we've run in like six months and free shipping
store wide at info store dot com and when we sell products at this lower price we've got to sell a
lot of it from the operation but i know the products are so good even though we make a very small
profit on each item you'll like them and then order more especially things like the coffee
that's so good or our toothpaste or our mouthwash or our vitamin mineral fusion uh fruit punch drink
it's got all the amino acids and multivitamins our probiotic all of it super mill vitality
50% off never done that and free shipping boom super film all vitality 50% off with free shipping
boom biome defense 50% off with free shipping with the free shipping folks it's a loss leader
you sign up for auto ship we're losing like six seven dollars on this that matter i just want
you to see how great it is we're now four and a half hours into the worldwide broadcast america
rebirth and renaissance was so much coming up today you go to info war store dot com and get
game changing amazing products we've been sold out of dna force for almost four months these
ingredients are nutraceutical grade you know the highest quality the bio pqq all of it it's 25% off
the truck got in this morning and it's back but it is a limited run because of all the testing and
all the rest of it it's the highest quality read about what it'll do for you and your family it
is amazing we also have been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality probiotic
it's 25% off out of the gates back in stock but for a very limited time so you get the highest
quality the very cleanest stuff out there we're really really proud of it dna force and biome
defense robotic now back in stock info wars life dot com and when you buy products from globalist
it's an active trading with the enemy it is an active war it is an active standing up when you
spread the links the articles and buy products from us and then we commit to rampage against the
enemy totally america is an information-based civil war that's why now more than ever we've
got to hit the streets of america and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from
their bully we're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship being
a conservative a nationalist a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counter
culture the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-america pro-capitalism and pro-freedom
who at the same time is tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit of thomas geverson's classical
liberalism they are the anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote
freedom worldwide we've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women
as well as more patriot apparel at infowar store dot com be part of the second american evolution
at infowar store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
the world is a dangerous place not because of evil but because of those who look on and
do nothing if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance we now take you live to
the central texas command center it's alex jones i tried it's an information war i go out in
downtown austin downtown san francisco downtown uh you areas uh upper west side new york seattle
people punch me they throw coffee at me they slap me the back of the head they come up behind me and
knock my food over and just say f you nazi and then their behavior is so nazi like in the stages
of authoritarianism first they yell at you then they attack you then they shut your business down
then they make you live in a ghetto then they haul you off to prison and michael sabbage was
getting into the left their authoritarianism and all over the news hashtag hunt republicans and
rand paul being tackled and attacked and uh republican members of city councils being shot
in the face by their neighbors and congressman's police and on and on they're getting violent
they want violence uh they're they're pushing it and you were getting historically with the cameroog
cambodia and the pull pot the killing fields as an example but it always basically follows
the same formula please continue with that historic warning dr sabbage i will but i want
to say something the book god faith and reason it's a very benign looking book isn't it michael
let's say you don't know me you see this in the bookstore nice old guy god faith and reason
and if people took this to work and put it on their desks let's see how tolerant the left is
from a benign book such as this which is almost apolitical okay let's just see it as a little
billboard on a desk at work pull pot cambodia nice professor goes to paris studies marxism
comes back and says i'm gonna introduce that economic system so he introduces it then he
hires 12 13 14 year old boys and girls gives them the cameroos the red scarf he tells them go out
and humiliate the teachers anyone who could read or write anyone it was literate in cambodia
was targeted by the marxists didn't man well one race remember that teachers doctors lawyers
engineers counts didn't matter any literate person was first humiliated personally humiliated in the
street like you're being yelled at that's how it starts and the thugs the cameroos then worked
them in the fields and killed them now we had the mountain of skulls that's what communism brings
that's what rachel madcow wolf blitzer and company will bring to this country unless they are taught
who they are and what they're doing to this nation they may not actually think they want that to
happen but they will lead to a mountainous skulls unless they are rained in somebody has to explain
to these sub morons these subintellectuals these pseudo-intellectuals these uneducated
adults that things start with an idea okay now you see in this country who's the cameroos do we
have it well of course we have it the anti-father democratic party how about fergus in missouri
how about baltimore maryland what was that there was a reason for ferguson burning a city down
attacking police the killing of police the war against police this is all part of the same
cameroos effect in the united states of america they couch it under the guise of only certain
lives matter they use race as a shield and a spear to silence those of us who see who they are
but never forget their end they have said point blank what they want to do they want to kill 30
million americans i read this in the 60s alex this is nothing new i forget the name of the group
he's still alive he's obama's good friend there in chicago that's the weatherman that's uh bill
airs said thank you bill airs was a member of a group that said if we kill 30 million americans
we'll we'll be able to save america don't think that they still don't want to do it our population
has doubled since then so it's it'd be 60 million well about the number that was killed in other
countries under that kind of psychosis so if it's killer be killed people better take the proper
steps to protect themselves last february i was attacked outside a restaurant remember that story
yes okay i mean i'm an older guy i didn't pick a fight i was sitting there with my dog having
two drinks people came like me we talked and some guy was on the end of a bar older guy
i didn't say one word to him i didn't even look at him but it was i walked out of the restaurant
i turned around the area is looming over me 20 years younger a foot tall one thing led to another
i wound up on my ass luckily i didn't die didn't break my skull the dog got scared to death the
poor little teddy was shaking like a leaf rand paul had six broken ribs in a punctured lung
and then now he's come out said no the neighbor hates me he's a leftist and the media is making
excuses for it he tackled him and then started stomping him in his yard unbelievable this guy
should be charged with murder first was a u.s senator how come he had no secret service
diane feinstein has secret service wait a minute why doesn't he have any secret
service it only applies to the leftists let's put that aside we're all i don't think conservatives
and people are just too regular he was mowing his own yard well that's a terrible story he
could have been killed but the point of my being knocked to the ground was who protected me at that
time from getting killed hurt banging my head breaking my ribs i'm an older guy how come i
didn't break anything alex i'm gonna tell the story on the air today several times in my life
and i'm not tempting fate god knows i'm not tempting fate i've seen a hand come down a hand
came down cushion the blow it could be the push ups i do at night it could be a lifetime of very
clean living uh that's a joke but nothing nothing broke i was in fiji 30 40 years ago and i was a
plant collector looking for medicinal plants way ahead of all of the you know all of the people
who know that think they know this field right now plant collector one night we're drinking
kava kava all night i wanted to leave the village all of my melanesian friends they're black people
in the islands they used to look at me when we drank a lot of kava and they'd say to me in fiji
and i think he's fiji and they look at my eyes i guess that was a transracial thing uh they love
me i love them all of a sudden the middle of this kava drinking i had an instinct i wanted to leave
that village i said so my friend domino said don't go don't go don't go i said i have to go he's i
can't go right now man we've been drinking this all night i said i got to get out of here so i go i walk
in the dark along an edge i go back to my other village the next morning he comes to me he was
like shaken he said come back with me i want you to see what you walked on he said you were walking
on a on a path that fell about 500 feet to the sea it was six inches wide this little path that you
were on and you didn't fall i look back on that moment and i have to say to you i think that
god put me here for a reason and i think the reason is the sin qua non of god faith and reason
i believe this book could be the one that reaches to those who have left god
and again it's not a book to bring you to a church or a synagogue or a temple it's a book
to bring you to yourself because in looking for god you'll find yourself people don't know who
they are today you'll throw away the drugs you'll throw away all the crutches you'll throw away
the beads you'll throw away the dream catchers you'll throw away your evil leftism and you just
might find that god might be your salvation because believe me as i sit here there's a reason
for everything and god is above all of us as rocky graziano the great middleweight fighter said
somebody up there likes me and i hope that somebody up there likes you alec and i hope
somebody up there likes me and i hope somebody up there really still likes america despite what we
have done to ourselves by permitting this virus of left-wing fascism to take over the country
well i think you've hit the hard here it's not just that liberalism is a mental illness
liberals hate god and they hate existing success and they don't want to join with it
even though we're not trying to make them we have free will they don't like that we made some of the
better free will discussions and some of the better free will choices in our life and they
don't like free will and want to force us into their authoritarianism and then they believe
they're in power by bullying us intellectually and spiritually as they see us rebelling they're
having an existential crisis because they feel like they're dying as their control over us
is dissipated they're they're they're going through a true breakdown
look at all the major inventions of the world trains cars planes telegraph computers medical
advances i'm sorry to break the news to all of those out there who don't want to know the news
all invented by dead white males you want to make it real down home here i can name one
invention after the other almost all of them invented by dead white males now it is true
that thousands of years ago or a thousand years ago actually china was more advanced than any
country on earth six masted sailing ships coal mines and do you know when those advancements
in china came to an end when the mandarins took over who were the mandarins at that time
the mandarins were the central government types the long fingernails they sat up there in the
washington dc of china and they controlled everyone's life they killed all creativity all
invented this in china we already out of the solar system with mars bases the mandarins hadn't taken
over that's right so the mandarins are now trying to take over again through the media the mandarins
are right there jake tap or mandarin will fee legalist mandarin mandarin mandarin mandarin
mandarin and i'm not talking about mandarin oranges they're control free cultists a new dark age
they want to run everything very dangerous people never forget who the enemy is they have names they
have faces never forget who they are they are the intellectual avant-garde that will lead to the
mountain of skulls unless they're called out and spit upon verbally and intellectually that's all i
want to say about it you know at certain time you got to roll your sleeves up and get down in
the gutter and not be so intellectual about it these people are out for blood michael sabbage
thank you for giving us a whole hour i know you're a very busy guy your show's coming up in one hour
michael sabbage dot com the new book god faith and reason and folks get my new t-shirt at info
war store dot com so we find ourselves as well the new don't tread on me free shipping storewide
thank you michael you're amazing thank you for all you're doing i can't wait to read the book
god bless alex thank you we need god absolutely god bless you you deserve a deep restful sleep
with knockout by info war's life our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a
powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around
the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep
up the pace our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot
com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info
wars life dot com to secure your chemister we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists
to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula available
vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply
of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history
of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super
male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing
process designed for maximize effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin mineral
products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either
plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure
and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot
com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out you're listening to the alex
jones show i'm sorry to have to report to you that anti-white racism in america is on the rise
and of course it's liberals who are behind it so let's take a look at just a small sample of some
of the most recent incidents like this brand new report in the new york times written by a black
man who asks can my children be friends with white people who goes on to blame president trump for
having to teach his kids that they might not be able to play with white boys and girls because
they might be racist quote donald trump's election has made it clear that i will teach my boys the
lesson generations old one that i for the most part nearly escaped i will teach them to be cautious
i will teach them suspicion and i will teach them distrust much sooner than i thought i would i will
have to discuss with my boys whether they can truly be friends with white people let me just point
out that this isn't some random post on tumblr this isn't even on your typical black supremacist
websites or magazines this is the new york times which i mean we should expect to be slightly less
crazy than the typical social justice warrior psycho outlets in other news buzzfeed is upset
with taylor swift who has a new song or new album coming out i couldn't care less but they're mad at
her because she's not a social justice warrior or at least not social justice warrior enough
in 2017 swift is still absenting herself from the cultural conversation taylor swiss reputations
a complicated mess they say love her or hate her she knows this and we know this it's what her
newest album a reputation is all about in one quadrant of tacked up evidence are swift celebrity
feuds generally juicy but also exhaustively long-running in another you'll find everything
about swiss personal life that alternately great than thrills depending on your preferences move
over a little from there you'll find swift image itself willowy blonde in aggressively white aggressively
white aggressively white what the hell does that even mean aggressively white how dare she be blonde
haired in blue eyes damn your parents taylor swift for not having an interracial relationship oh wait
what's this oh it's an article from the root in my opinion of black supremacist website
dear white women interracial relationships and biracial children do not absolve you of racism
i'm sorry white people were damned if we do damned if we don't remember the stories from
halloween this year where the liberal media was telling parents that they had white children
that they couldn't allow them to dress up as the disney character from one of their recent films
mona or moana how the hell you say it that's called till appropriation well there was something
equally insane that i forgot to mention those same lunatics were trying to shame parents
and stop them from allowing their daughters to dress up as elsa if they were white because it
promoted this notion that white beauty is supreme and this is why butch people on forechan came up
with this idea to troll liberals in real life on high school and college campuses by encouraging
people to print up flyers that simply say it's okay to be white and to post them around the schools
not only did a lot of people do this but multiple schools started publicly denouncing the flyers
and it started making headlines across the country the news at 11 continues with a disturbing
story out of montgomery county students found flyers take them at high school that say it's
okay to be white oh no call the fbi this is a disturbing story they said it's disturbing all
right it's disturbing that you think there's a problem with these flyers this is a report from
an abc affiliate in washington dc it's okay to be white sign found on doors at montgomery
Blair high school in maryland school says flyers were removed and says they're investigating
what the hell is there to investigate meanwhile another massive hate crime hoax has been exposed
which is why there's an entire chapter in my new book the true story of fake news on fake hate crimes
i hope you check it out in paperback on amazon.com or download it on your tablet or your e-reading
device this from the air force times racial slurs written on dorm room boards of black
air force academy cadet members racial slurs were written on the dormitory message boards
of five black cadet candidates at the air force academy preparatory school earlier this week one
cadet candidates mother posted a photo on her facebook page that shows the words go home and
word written on the whiteboard outside her son's room oh wait what's this a black student wrote
those racist messages that shook the air force academy school says the racist messages roiled the
academy in colorado springs and prompted the school to launch an investigation they led its
superintendent to deliver a stern speech that decried the horrible language and drew national
attention for its eloquence but on tuesday the school made a jolting announcement the person
responsible for the racist messages the academy said was in fact one of the all right that's
smart guys i'm alex jones stay with us we're running the biggest specials we've run in like six
months and free shipping store wide and in full store dot com and when we sell products at this
lower price we've got to sell a lot of it from the operation but i know the products are so good
even though we make a very small profit on each item you'll like them and then order more especially
things like the coffee it's so good or our toothpaste or our mouthwash or our vitamin mineral fusion uh
fruit punch drink it's got all the amino acids and multivitamins our probiotic all of it super
mild vitality 50% off never done that and free shipping boom super thermal vitality 50% off
with free shipping boom bomb defense fitting son off with free shipping with the free shipping folks
it's a loss leader you sign up for auto ship we're losing like six seven dollars on this
that matter i just want you to see how great it is we are now four and a half hours into the
worldwide broadcast america rebirth and renaissance was so much coming up today
waging war on corruption it's alex joe zero coming to you live from the front lines of the info war
zero hour is here turn the greatest political and financial upheaval in modern history your
advantage harry s dent jr is joining us in just one moment but first take a look at this
we don't know what we're doing we have leaders that are grossly incompetent they said it could
never happen again american revolution the u.s civil war world war one the 1929 crash the rise of
hitler world war two the atomic bomb the arab oil crisis and the global financial crisis of
winston church all once said the farther back you look the farther forward you're likely to see
those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it what if all these events happen
simultaneously imagine the unimaginable the cycle of history suggests that we are on the brink of
something this big something of a magnitude never seen before where mankind faces challenges
endures the healing and rises up again in the prosperity strengthened wealth this is about
the destruction of the old ways top-down management establishment politics social engineering
financial and monetary manipulation wealthy elitism and the rising up of a new world history
tells the future are you ready for zero hour the greatest political and economic revolution
since the advent of democracy itself history tells the future beautiful way to say that
that i'm actually just so i get it out there working on a book that has that basic title and
i haven't read zero hour it just came in a few days ago again just like michael savages book
i can't wait to read it by the way i don't get paid to promote these books and i don't just
have people on uh because you know they're they're they're paying me to have money's not paying me
to have money i had michael savages he's a great guest and i love reading his books the same thing
with uh mr dent but if you see a confluence or coming together or the basic terms we're using
it's not because we're plagiarizing each other it's because if you study history you know the
future if you know history you know the future uh history rhymes as mr dent uh has uh you
quote another famous historian and again we have these corrupt elites we have the centralization
we have the crony capitalism i want to see it come down but then i see trump come in and it puff
back up even though it's a fraud he's trying to do it for the general public and it's now been
tied to his success on the success of americana and free market and so it makes me not want it to fail
but i do realize it's still built even though he's cutting regulations and doing some good things
it's built within a system designed to implode so when do we run into that brick wall and what
do we do once we hit it harry s dent thanks for joining us zero hour is the new book harry dent
dot com thanks for coming on with us yeah alex i mean this really i've been talking about this for
many years obviously we have a debt bubble a financial asset bubble and stocks and real estate
and everything and those things always burst and that was my last book the sale of a lifetime
but this book is about something i've been talking about for many years a bigger revolution like
democracy and free market capitalism that in their pure forms came together in the late 1700s
and you know what now uh central banks have taken over free markets and special interests have taken
over democracy we don't have those two factors anymore in this revolution with the internet
and better communication and even like cryptocurrencies and new things coming out is going to change
this political in our business organizations everything else and create an even greater
bottoms up economy around those principles sure so you're saying zero hour haven't ready yet is
about what happens after the next crash yes well and it's also about what you do coming into it
you have to protect your assets the u.s dollar did the best in the last crash and will again
high quality bonds do well that's what does well in a deflationary crash when bubbles burst
everything else gets killed so you have to protect your wealth now you have to consider
where do i live how do i protect myself from some level of chaos in society because this is not going
to be easy what we're going to go through we we got to we got to get rid of a a bubble we've
got to change our political system we've got a real line around cultures that are more compatible
like the red and blue cultures in the u.s and the suni and the shia in the middle east and all
this stuff there's a lot to do here so you really need to be settled down and and get safe first
and then you know we can tell you how to take advantage of these changes there's going to be
huge opportunities to come out of it how long on the short term versus the long term in the bubble
stayed inflated well you know for economically the worst we have four indicators pointing down
into early 2020 and then a few more pointing down into 2022-23 so i'd say the next three to five years
is going to be the worst economically and for things like the stock market but this uh political
revolution we're talking about is going to take a couple decades to really set in and and we're
talking about i you know i've got a chart here as well we got three cycles pointing to a major
revolution like the late 1700 a 250 year deep political revolution an 84 year popular cycle
which started in the early 30s and again here with trump and brexit and then a 28 year and an 80 year
economic cycle so this is going to only take four five six years to play out but the bigger
political revolution and then in the next chart we have globalization there's a backlash against
globalization which trump is is leading more than and that was my next question the EU says oh try to
leave us we built a secret army just like germany did in the 30s we're going to invade you already
five countries day one say we're ready to fight you i mean the EU once you have to start talking
about fighting members that never voted to enter you're in and you're you're done and spain's having
to fight catalan and on and on and on we're so we show in this book around the world we have
countries in europe united states even china india everywhere you look where there are huge
disparities in incomes and cultures and religions between different parts of countries and you know
what you can't bring those together our political polarization is the most extreme much more than
the great depression in the roaring 20s more like the civil war so so like we said in this little
short video what if we have kind of like a civil war a great depression and a revolution in politics
and business at the same time and that's what the history we're looking at and that's what you
said we're looking at that's what the historic patterns and this contemporary information
all points towards kind of a super storm yes and i get i've been saying this for a long time but i've
been concentrating before on on the bubble in in debt and in financial assets because that's the
first thing to go but i've always been saying we i've been saying for 20 years since my first book
we're going to have the biggest revolution since democracy and free market and it's happening stay
there harried in zero hour tell folks to get the book at home we're going to go to break come right
back folks i want to try to fix things and politically we're trying to do it but he's
absolutely right we have to be ready we have to be aware of what's happening it's absolutely critical
we're come back with him and get into zero hour what it means the political revolutions he's talking
about the economic revolutions the radicalization of the so-called left which i was never a right
when you're a left-winger i'm just a populist but we're gonna talk about it all briefly it's
important exercise free speech and promote americana we have a new shirt that's a designer
quality really soft really nice won't tread on me with a new design of the gas and flags very iconic
i think this is the best shirt we've ever designed info wars dot com on the right shoulder with an
american flag info wars dot com the back of the shirt as well that shirt is now available
free shipping store why we had to end 50 off on a peril because we sold out of most of it
but and on supermail vitality and some other products but we've expanded to z-shield the
heavy metal detoxifier that you take out of the tongue that's so amazing that's 50 off even though
it's going to sell out soon we've got more coming in caveman true paleo the bone broth the turmeric
with chocolate mushroom all of it 50 off and free shipping never gone that low we've had 50
percent off before but not free shipping on top of it so we've got that vitamin mineral fusion 50
percent off the free shipping super blue fluoride free mouthwash 50 off dna force back in stock
25 off free shipping secret 12 that's got us in the next few days 50 off and you're not just
getting great supplements and great shirts and great books and great videos and great water
filtration you're funding an operation that is expanding in the face of the globalist and just
trying to cover all the different angles to give the public the intelligence and information they
need to make better decisions so all of us are better off so you know you ask when do I have
authors on I only have authors on I read we had Michael Savage we have mr. Denon I'll read both
these books so we'll be right back on the other side stay with me have you ever lost your power
and wanted to simply flip a switch to get the lights back on if so pay close attention because
huge discounts are now available in solar generators perfect for backup power outages and emergencies
portable solar generators provide life-saving electrical power when you need it most and
unlike gas generators a solar generator runs quietly emits no dangerous fumes and produces an
endless supply of electricity from the sun it's like having an electric power plant running secretly
in your own home right now get a five thousand dollar solar generator for just nine hundred and
ninety five dollars while supplies last go to my solar backup dot com to learn more that's my solar
backup dot com GCN listeners use coupon code GCN at checkout for this special offer my solar
backup dot com use coupon code GCN EMP protection available at an additional charge
heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and
drops poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that
something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's
lives across america my blood pressure has normalized my diabetes has totally improved everyone is
telling me now how much healthier i look and i'm telling everyone how much healthier i feel i recommend
heart and body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the north american continent should be using
this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy order your two
months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com
america is an information based civil war that's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets
of america and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying we're
only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship being a conservative
a nationalist a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture
the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro america pro capitalism and pro freedom who at
the same time is tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit of thomas geverson's classical
liberalism they are the anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote
freedom worldwide we've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women
as well as more patriot apparel at infowar store dot com be part of the second american evolution
at infowarstore dot com support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free
products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver
designed to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil
or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with a super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and supercharge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and
ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial
compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free
products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com
that's infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
mr. harry dent formerly uh with vane cap alone big groups has a great history as a researcher
and economist and author is joining us right now in the last segment today i haven't gotten all
these videos of oh the little vacuum cleaner robot in your house hacked by hackers watching you in
your house or hackers getting into your thermostat because i covered it 20 years ago you get
you get today's news 20 years early is basically what's really happening here so that's all going
to be coming up but you were getting into revolutions i understand you're more of a
political atheist or a free market guy and i i don't like some of the stuff republicans have
done or democrats have done but there's a derangement in the left where just because i supported
trump over hillary they throw coffee on you they physically attack you they're calling for death
of you know members of congress they want trump dead mainstream media promotes it i mean these
people have gotten nothing from the system all they see is an old system being propped up right
now by trump and i don't want the revolution to happen if it totally collapses they want clowered
and piven they think if stuff collapses there'll be a socialist reorganization and they're gonna get
some chicken in every pot uh scenario uh they don't get that f dr was propping up a capitalist
system using socialism i guess is an emergency you can argue whether it was good or not but
you talk about political upheaval the backlash against people waking up to centralization
seems like piranhas on pcp how does that feed into this political superstorm you're talking about
okay i i get number one central banks have taken over the free market capitalist system
they're setting the economy to grow at three percent which they can achieve through their best
efforts of all the stimulation world with two percent inflation this is not how the economy
works it it's a balance of opposites you have booms and bust inflation deflation the economy
knows how to heal itself just like the human body and doctors usually spend most of their time
preventing the human body from healing itself because they want to prevent the common cold like
economists want to prevent recession so the system does have to fail alex and i hate to say it
because everybody thinks well central banks have created another decent economy now no i get it but
the left wants it to fail the left wants it to fail and never come back no well yeah no i wanted
to fail so it can come back no i totally agree but i'm saying they see free market as competition to
their socialist utopia how do we deal with that well again i mean republicans want to cut taxes
right at the wrong time when corporate profits are higher than ever unemployment is lowest ever
workforce growth is not growing we don't need more investment we have low capacity utilization
republicans want to stimulate through tax cuts the democrats want to have social engineering
which is also already failed the whole thing has to fail and then people have to realize oh we can't
look to central banks you know we can't look to special interests they're never going to give us
the right research to change our economy and then you get a revolution and the people start to win
it's unfortunate but the old system does have to fail to some significant degree to build the new
out of the ashes but i i just know this from studying history i wish it weren't the case but
that's no i know you're right i mean look at the plague it's prevented this from failing with all
this quantitative easing and free money they've not let the system fail and let's look at let's
look at the black plague in the 1600s i mean i know you've written about that scenario explain
that to people why why did that cause the renaissance well it did you know it when things fail people
have to get real i always told people look every day people i'm talking every day people become heroes
when there's a crisis 9 11 or the barn's burning and people don't think oh am i gonna die they run
in they save the horse they save the dog they save the baby the people this is what happens people
get real we are living in la la land on both sides the republicans think if you just keep cutting
taxes the economy is going to grow no not when you've over expanded the liberals think oh if we just
keep giving more welfare and spending printing more money oh we can keep going no these things
kill the free market capitalist system they kill and special interests kill democracy these things
have to fail so that we don't trust them anymore and we don't look to somebody to come in and give
us a free lunch everything sure let's historically it's been a free lunch free lunch solution our
audience understands that we're just trying to debate when is the big crash coming or how long
could we prop it up while we get ourselves in position and then we worry about the globalist
coming in and trying to use it to take full authoritarian control which they say they've
done and in which they've done other countries so we know what's coming there's a lot of problems
a lot of sharks are going to take advantage of this not in free market ways the way you're talking
about to protect yourself but in very predatory ways how does the revolution thing from your
historical perspective play into this well i mean again first of all i mean that's why i wrote this
book um because the signs in late 2016 brexit and then trump getting elected against the odds and in
the day trump got elected we said oh my god even though we were cautious about the market back
there we're not no the markets are gonna love this we're gonna see a 20 25 run now we've seen
that so that makes me think this is like the final blow off rally in the bubble and the other thing
i'm looking for alex and it's very simple and it's starting to happen i'm looking for a divergence
between the main indexes like the nasdaq and the dow and the s&p and the small caps the russell
2000 and the dow transport when those indexes start to fail before the big ones it's a sign
that the bubble's getting ready to birth and that is starting to happen i need a little more
confirmation next month too but i think we're in a topping process and this chart is perfect
that we've had four bubbles in this bubble boom and i was calling our our long-term research
we have four seasons in our economy spring boom inflationary recession like the 70s a fall bubble
boom and then a depression or a winter season this is the fourth and largest bubble and people
keep going on cnbc and all these financial new states say oh this isn't a bubble because all
these reasons this is a bubble it's the biggest bubble in all history china is even bigger than
ours this bubble looks ready to blow i would guess it's topping between october and january
and between 2018 19 and 20 when our indicators are the most negative is when we're going to see this
worst of this financial downturn but again what i'm saying in this book the political
and the social repercussions this blue red split in this whole you know how do we reorganize our
world around more compatible cultures that's going to take many many years and this backlash
against globalization which again was a good trend for a long time but it went too far globalization
it just brought us into each other's throats and everybody hates each other rich versus poor black
versus white suny versus shia red versus blue um baby boomers versus millennials millennials feel
totally threatened by the baby booms a massive debt and entitlement and and they are so so we
have to sort all this out it's going to be messy which is why you need to preserve your wealth get
in safe investments be in a safe place and be healthy that's what you need to get through this
and if you do the world's going to be your oyster well i'm not disagreeing with you that we're sitting
on top of giant bubble that's just a fact i'm concerned there are people that actually want to
bring the bubble down and have trump's recovery fail just so they can blame him that's not even
looking at you know he's just trying to put off something that was already there and you know
you've been saying the bubble was going to bust for the last few years i'm not saying you're wrong
i'm just saying i you who knows now there were so many artificial things suppressing the economy
before like regulations and the coal being turned off that you add all those other stimulus in
who knows but i agree it's a damn if you do damn if you don't because it props it up everything's
okay for a while but the one implodes it's even bigger we'll talk about how you would protect
yourself straight ahead and then we've got a bunch of technology news in the final segment before
Paul Joseph Watson takes over from london england in the fourth hour
katie armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market
and we've succeeded with the release of our cqb technology we now offer the most comfortable
concealable rifle threat body armor available things may look good now but what if you need
added protection get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katie armor dot com
and for a limited time get all plates at wholesale pricing only at cati armor dot com fully cooked
ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy
some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life nasa pack
technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and
served lifesaving ready to eat bacon 10 year shelf life bacon ships free at fully cooked bacon
dot com fully cooked bacon dot com i want to plow into all of this i'm going to spend a few minutes
here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water
filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info or store dot com you are funding
the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you purchase the
products at info or store dot com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride
free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that
for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad
with colloidal silver and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a 253 3139 and your
purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the
globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who
they are and they're coming back against it so we need your support enjoy all natural bath and
beauty products with emmerich's essentials we are proud to bring you a collection of organic
based household products at info war store dot com including non-nano spf 30 zinc oxide sunscreen
deat free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash unscented body wash tea tree shampoo
and long lasting natural deodorant emmerich's essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that
may harm your body we carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are
certified usda made with organic our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products
to enhance your life truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on
quality feel good about using emmerich's essentials start saving money and stop exposing yourself
in your family to toxic ingredients visit info war store dot com and learn more about the new
emmerich's essentials line of organic products that's info war store dot com not a group you
develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it why is this so good because people
are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most i mean i try to make sure
that i don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but right now we're dealing
with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism
right now with all the refugees uh spreading disease around we have biological warfare going
on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many
things that are in it you have the neem in there you have the organic clove bud the organic wormwood
i recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year all right well i'm glad we've got some
back in because i'm going back on it today it just came back in yesterday living defense
info wars life dot com and folks you can't lose it's full of stuff that's great for your body
period and you support the broadcast info wars lives dot com thank you doctor group from the
global healing center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product
you're listening to the alex jones show
the alex jones show because there is a war on or your mind
i remember when i remember i remember when i lost my mind
here's what i know people are vulcanizing the parasitic left has always used government funding
to fund their own projects their own art operations you name it the left also usually are managers over
disenfranchised groups of people that live in government housing or kind of warehousing foster
children things like that it's what they do it's their business and they don't know any better
so they see society collapsing they see that as more for them to feed on so the big problem with
the reality equation that mr dens talking about is we're talking about how to make things better
once the correction comes we're talking about ways to protect ourselves but also stabilize the
government they're looking at ways to overthrow everything and that's why i'm saying it's more
critical than ever to financially support shows like info wars why it's more important than ever
to exercise your free speech and wear the new won't tread on me incredible uh gads and flag
cold pepper men and men shirt that we have an info war store.com because in the future more than
anything it's going to be financially supporting organizations and groups and people that are
fighting for your basic worldview and your way of life this is something conservatives never really
do or libertarians never do we kind of just live our own lives and run our own lives and
we don't want to run other people's lives well if you don't want somebody running your life
you're going to have to get politically involved you have to get financially involved
and and and not to educate yourself with books like zero hour that again i'm going to be reading
this weekend uh by harry s dent but the book that sabbage wrote or the information we cover
briefly i want to play this clip as he mentioned worldwide revolutions the country's working with
countries is a great idea it opens up markets more products more innovation more ideas anybody in
any business will tell you more people more business more connections more more ideas
it's the opposite of stagnation but you try to bring in and repopulate europe with third world
muslim populations uh and then the the left's there to get them all in welfare that's a disaster
you want to put an e u army out to take over countries because they want to pull out well
that's the fastest way to make them pull out even quicker and you can say well spain will keep
catalan in for a while longer doesn't matter once the people know they're captured it's like some
guy that's chaining his wife up when he goes to work she's going to get loose someday you're
going to go to jail or she's not she's going to be long gone and we've we've reached that point
where the left is trying who doesn't even the left just people that feel like they're the left
are there to dominate folks it's not working anymore so i want to ask mr dent historically
looking at the charts how this revolution fleshes out how it can look but he's predicted it i've
predicted it ron paul's predicted it so many others are predicted that the cia people we've
had on like steve pacinic and predicted it 10 years ago that the e would fail and things would
break up it's here what does that mean as the central controllers push authoritarianism here
is a clip of nigel farage the fastest growing movement not just in the uk the gavis brings it
it but also in europe pointing out what's really going on here it is mr farage two and a half minutes
thank you as mr muskevich he said at the start of this the leak of all these papers and lists
of people with offshore holdings has come about because of the society of investigative journalists
for what's not been said this morning i think is relevant is that the funding of these investigations
came from one george sorris now i say this at a time i'm going to come back to say what
and it may have some personal interest for you as well i say this at a time when the use of money
and the influence it may have had on the brexit result or the trump election has reached a level
of virtual hysteria just last week the electoral commission in the uk launched an investigation
to find out whether the leave campaign took offshore money or russian money this came about
as a result of questions asked in the house of commons by one ben bradshaw somebody linked
to an organization called open society i just wonder when we're talking about offshore money
when we're talking about political subversion when we're talking about collusion i wonder whether
we're looking in the wrong place and i say that because george sorris recently gave open society
his organization which of course campaigns for free movement of peoples and supports
supranational structures like the european union he recently gave it 18 billion dollars
and his influence here and in brussels is truly extraordinary open society boasts that they had
42 meetings last year with the european commission they've even published a book of reliable friends
in the european parliament and there are 226 names on that list including yours sir i thought i
thought you'd find this interesting we even had last week mr vahovstat lobbying on behalf of mr
sorris at the conference of presidents in a battle that is going on with victor allban the prime
minister of hungary if we're going to have a debate and we're going to talk about full political
and financial transparency well let's do it so i should be writing today to all 226 of you asking
some pretty fair questions have you ever received funds directly or indirectly from open society
how many of their events have you attended could you please give us a list of the meetings of all
the representatives including george sorris yourself and i think this parliament should
now set up a special committee to look into all of this and i say that because i fear we could be
looking at the biggest level of international political collusion in history and i've said
this thousands of times they change it to russia because they're bringing in globalism these
multinational groups like tpp that literally do conquer us they're scared so they wanted to turn
the investigation around and now it's blowing up in their face and now the e u army is announcing
it's taking over and one day after five countries say they're ready to repel the invasion this is
kind of shaping up almost like pre-world war two in a weird way you got yunker the air of the nazis
threatening the us running the unelected e you how does this fit into your equation mr dent well
you know again i've been waiting on this uh for 20 years now alex in the roaring 2000 my best-selling
book i brought in this whole network revolution bottoms up now again free market capitalism
and democracy with the first bottoms up revolution all history everything was top down aristocracy
controlled since then this is deeper we've got back down with central banks have taken over
and we need an economy globally that can let everybody be their own thing and grow from the
bottom up like you said from organizations that you favor and not from some top down sort of thing
all of this stuff can survive together if they all have their own spaces and their own support
and the system can accommodate i was about to say won't won't the globalist themselves the good the
bad the ugly destroy themselves making this existential fight with nationalism a real thing
don't they get they're gonna lose we don't know okay they think they're gonna lose because they
they're controlling things from the top down bottoms up to look the stock exchanges operate
totally from the bottom's up not top down and they only get bigger and bigger you can have global
and you can have bottom up what we have now is global and top down and that's the problem
everything in this book everything i've written for 20 30 years has said we need a bottom's up
revolution like in the late 1700s only information no i know you've been calling it you've been calling
for 20 years i'm saying yeah how nasty is it gonna get because they've signaled they're gonna get very
violent look it is getting out so we're saying you can't have a revolution look i mean they were
cutting off heads in france and we had the revolutionary war in the united states it is
nasty revolutions are never easy but they are necessary and they come at times like this again
i can't stop the revolution i can't stop all the cycles i'm looking at all i can do is help people
prepare for it again protect the wealth you have now at the top of this bubble don't hold out for
more live in the safest place you can live in and be prepared for change and to take advantage of it
it's just that simple there's going to be major breakdown major crime we've tried to prop this
thing up but once it goes south they're going to unloose their their hordes the communist it's going
to be thank god we have the second amendment but folks zero hour available at harry dense website
harry dent dot com thank you so much for coming on with us look forward to speaking to you again
very soon okay thank you alec yeah i've got four children and uh i've studied history and it does
repeat itself and the elites are all digging in and trump's tried to get things going again
they're trying to block him i think we could have made it out of this but it's now they're trying to
block it it's it's probably gonna completely blow up and when it does folks when it does
i just say prop it up as long as we can because when it blows i tell you it's gonna be bad
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com to go to info wars store dot com and get game changing amazing
products we've been sold out of dna force for almost four months these ingredients are
nutraceutical grade you know the highest quality the bio pqq all of it it's 25 percent off the truck
got in this morning and it's back but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all
the rest of it is the highest quality read about what it'll do for you and your family it is amazing
we also have been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality probiotic it's
25 percent off out of the gates back in stock but for a very limited time so you get the highest
quality the very cleanest stuff out there we're really really proud of it dna force and biome
defense probiotic now back at stock info wars life dot com when you buy products from globalist
it's an active trading with the enemy it is an act of war it is an act of standing up when you
spread the links the articles and buy products from us and then we commit to rampage against the enemy
totally men give your body the support it needs with info wars life prostiguard it's time to start
assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance info wars life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas that you can
use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend
the prostiguard formula does just that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients and
antioxidants that help give your body total support it's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto
lycopene plant sterols zinc vitamin d3 selenium and copper prostiguard is something that the men on
the info wars crew take every day and from our research it's something that men should really
be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels now's the time
to start naturally supporting your body get prostiguard on your side today exclusively at
info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com please listen carefully because i'm about to
point out three things that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and
fund the info war a 360 win number one when you choose auto ship before checkout we give you 10
percent off on your order at info or short on com number two you're also able to get items that are
out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers
number three we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting
this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month
just go to info wars store dot com select your favorite product or products click on auto ship
and choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know i coined the term 360
win and with the new auto ship feature at info wars life dot com this is a sure win 10 off on
auto ship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on orders above 50 box and all out
of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship you're listening to the alex
jones show
you
welcome folks alex jones back live broadcasting worldwide paul watson's just a few minutes
away from london england he is wound up and has a ton of critical information
to cover watch people you know i meant to get into human brains and planet in rat brains
with michael sabbage since he has the new book out god faith and reason even if we don't believe
in god shouldn't you on this planetoid not want to treat other creatures worse than dog meat don't
you have basic empathy we're getting godlike powers but we're not gods it's an incredible
time to be alive and i've seen major demonization of drones for a decade because government didn't
want the public to have access to them and then government though didn't want us to know it was
going to use them as part of an autonomous army that would follow orders undersea drones
ship drones airborne drones tank drones soldier drones but as miniaturization it's cheaper and
cheaper and mass production gets cheaper and cheaper and better and better we're seeing the
advent of the robots but then we see the footage of where the little robot that vacuums your house
has got a camera in it and the hackers get in and watch it and have it go up in the front door for
them or the hackers have it record what your codes are because it's grabbing the wi-fi so all of these
trojan horses like the i-robot collects info in your house and then gives it to hackers all of
this makes us less safe and it's all being rolled out with giant holes in it by design because industry
wants into all of it and it's that data that has the real value the amount of data that one of these
robot steals and gives back to the home company every time it's plugged into the internet because
you keep it plugged in because you want to see what's going on your house when you're gone well
there they're accessing it all they're even turning hotspots in your house into wi-fies for the companies
to have unofficial wi-fies in neighborhoods passing on and monitoring info it's all a big space race
or a run for the hills to get the gold the 49ers it's a gold rush and we're building
our own graves with it because from the beginning it has an authoritarian and a deceptive architecture
that's already beyond our understanding and we're just in the year 2017 so here's one this is the top
video today on the internet the new spot mini robot boston dynamics sleek like a race car
affordable cool everybody's got to have it but is there any discussion about what's inside of
remember just five years ago people laughed at the spot robot that was gas powered in the military
one and they oh that'll never be a threat and then now suddenly a few years later
look out once that's weaponized and of course someone else will weaponize it so then a private
group will so then let them have government control over all of them they'll all have to be wired into
safety software which again allows them all to be hacked not just one one ring to rule them all
one ring to bind them in the darkness my friends one central control and it's dystopic because
it's designed to be dystopic let's go ahead and go to the new campaign but steward russell presented
at the un convention on conventional weapons they're the ones that want to ban small arms with
general citizens oh now they're going to warn us about swarms of droids swarms of drones
coming and killing a classroom full of people not guns this is all because the un has said
civilian ownership of firearms threatens the legitimate power monopoly of the state
they don't just like most drones for five years in restricted airspace they won't even fly they're
already gps chipped then the f as well it's a big federal crime a felony if you fly it without and
I could see how it causes a problem they've already had drones almost bring down jet liners but all
the news fail safes only make it more centralized more easy for hackers or corrupt governments or
whoever to control them all instead of one I'm not a big TV head but six seven eight years ago I
watched on the treadmill one season of battle star galactica and you know the aliens have hacked into
the mainframes the battle stars and they bring them all down at one minute invade kill everybody on
earth and then there's one old battle star that isn't hooked in and it survives that's literally
how this operates folks and so yeah calculators are great but they wouldn't notice how calculators
when I was in school and I was good at math I could bang out algebra trigonometry whatever I
needed to in the back of a piece of paper I could do do would work with a ruler and just figure it
would all work great now I'm a blue blue blue my children doing homework they've got their calculators
and I don't even know how the calculator works we're being dehumanized so here's the new film
campaign to band developing autonomous weapons which little too late they've already launched it
everywhere here it is just like any mobile device these days it has cameras and sensors it does facial
recognition inside here is three grams of shaped explosive this is how it works
that little bang is enough to penetrate the skull and destroy the content
yeah what it has roughly is a bullet and so it flies up and it shoots you
and so they're they're scaring one at the UN because the UN wants the global power to control
this so when their peacekeepers show up to kill you you were never even allowed the basic technology
to put up a resistance so the evil group is the one that wants to control it for your own good no
let's continue with a piece I want to play more of it because I saw the full one where it shows
them going and killing the kids in the school that was the one I wanted to play
while we work on that let me just take a few minutes out here for you and just remind listeners
and it is a reminder if you don't want to financially support the broadcast if you don't
want to see us expand the face the globalist if you don't want to see us harm or people
be more aggressive I don't think that's very good self-preservation activity I don't think so
there isn't an organization or group that's under more attack other than the president
drudge is under attack and others are we're under attack because we're just talking common sense
we're having great guests on we're having real debates here and we're covering topics that they
don't want discussed so I really hope that everyone will think about going to info or store.com and
thinking about getting the new shirt that I think is the best we've ever produced really soft high
quality designer fabric at a low price won't tread on me just the big gadget snake a american flag on
the right hand shoulder info wars info wars.com on the back and it's a great way again to meet
like-minded people to exercise your free speech you probably get your dinner bot for you in most
areas of the country where people are working and people are good and people are decent but if you
go to an area like downtown austin or san francisco or somewhere else where there's fecal matter all
of the ground heroin heads everywhere and huge disease outbreaks and people vomiting all over
each other they may literally zombie like attack you so again won't tread on me the new shirt info
wars store.com and we've been pioneers of every major subject the drones the robotics the big
brother the spy grids the tv's watching you the gmo the fluoride causing brain damage the vaccines
being dangerous by design the secret EU army uh donna brazil about to go public against them
the clinton's about to be thrown to the bus told you that six months ago we have vision we have
understanding we know what we're talking about we have you as great audience that funds us and
makes it all possible so again info wars store.com free shipping is extended on all the items that
haven't sold out and we've added some new items to the list as well thank you all for your support
please think about funding us today because i want to really grow in the face of the enemy
i don't want to let soros defeat us i don't want to be slowed down i don't want to be diminished
i want to grow and be strong and be 110 uh so here they are giving the un demonstration of the drone
here it is
again it shows the swarm of these been unleashed by evil white men in a van of course everybody
muslims and they go and they kill a whole class of people so they're saying you need to learn
to be totally fearful and totally scared because the un wants to save you and the drone sees that
he's alive authorities are still struggling to make sense of an attack on university campuses
worldwide which targeted some students and not others who could have done this and anyone
that's the guardian of the un and all their propaganda so there you go i've got one more
clip i didn't get to how the vietnamese security firm has packed into an iphone x face id with a
mask that cost them a couple dollars yeah all this technology is designed to be penetrated
because the big tech companies are the hackers they want to bring in the total grid have it all
implode then bring in a worldwide biometric id to buy and sell support good oral health with our
one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free products info worse life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste
blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor
made with peppermint oil or try our bubble gum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with
the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash
features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead
of containing fluoride our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array
of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits
super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super
blue fluoride free products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info
war store dot com that's info war store dot com america is an information based civil war that's
why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of america and let these globalists
scum know we're not backing down from their bully we're only intensifying our operations in the face
of their wannabe dictatorship being a conservative a nationalist a libertarian or simply a free speech
advocate is truly the counterculture the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro america
pro capitalism and pro freedom who at the same time is tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of thomas geverson's classical liberalism they are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech
meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide we've got more than 60 original designs
of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more patriot apparel at info war store
dot com be part of the second american revolution at info war store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones
this is just in my list of videos today anti-trump are arrested for planning a killing spree of
trump supporters left us who wanted to kill first responders found with an arsenal of bombs and
weapons told his parents who he lived with at 31 that he was going to go out nothing wrong live
with your parents but i mean all these people do we're going to go out and kill trump supporters
and then i've had this lady on the broadcast before transgender activists libertarian
blare white was assaulted on the hollywood boulevard for sporting a make america grading in hat a
social experiment gone awry they also broke her nail grabbed her hand viciously she wanted to see
what would happen well it's like when i go out one of these areas they attack me and it was two beta
males attacking what you know you disagree it's a woman a man whatever it's an attractive looking
woman i mean these are guys thinking they're attacking a woman you can debate whether you know
she's a man the thing she's one whatever it doesn't matter to me i don't hate her as long as she
doesn't hate me and the point is is that the left then attacks a woman that they don't like here it is
radio audience walking through busy area doing nothing wearing the hat make america great again
and they're what do they represent make america and she's there with her boyfriend
yeah all his purposes is a gay couple can't wear their hat and you've got some guys wearing the
pussycat hats and he there is a tiger grabbing the hat away and the police just let him break her
nail look at this guy i guess she went out there for the fascism march pro fascism march
so there you go there is the tolerance uh ladies and gentlemen i mean again thanks she's a woman
there's there's no doubt they think it's a woman i've noticed wheelchair woman handicapped person
they attack and it's guys wearing pink hat saying we want to be feminine and then they
attack basically they're they're they're archetype a man that's become a woman because she's wearing
the wrong hat they're so tolerant they'll attack a woman amazing now i want to move on to this
other clip here there's so many man migrants being sold by islamists as slaves but the
don't point out they're muslims that's cnn we've got a bunch of other clips here i didn't get to
it's just totally insane that it's gotten this point there's so much i didn't get to today
i've got how the iphone can be broken into really really easy we don't have time to get to that
we've got the sessions testimony we've got the trump rollout that they're promoting in the media
it's just incredible oh i know the clip i want to play let's play the clip of the lady that's raised
over 75 000 on the gofundme site steve watson wrote about this for info wars dot com after she
flipped off trump she became such a hero for flipping off his motorcade that they've given her
75 000 and i'm telling you that's all they can do is attack you or scream f you uh here is that
clip a gofundme campaign growing for the cyclist who was fired after flipping off president trump's
motorcade more than 70 000 now raised for julie briskman the gofundme calling her a quote inspiration
to us all briskman claims that her employer a government contractor fired her for violating
the company's social media policy you know i say i don't even fire somebody like that don't be like
the left who fires and physically attacks everybody but then you know we got to get out of their level
sometime i guess but just how they kick their kids out the rallies too and just cuss and scream and
attack and it's just a bunch of spoiled rotten babies that have lived in this cuddled country
forever who just want to dominate it want to run our lives and i'm sorry you're not going to run our
lives scum and if you thought we were asleep before you were right we're awake now so good luck
for you to be able to bully the rest of us now that we're awake good luck paul joseph watson
of prismplanet.com and news wars.com i'll be with you in 70 seconds
we're running the biggest specials we've run in like six months and free shipping
storewide at infowarstore.com and when we sell products at this lower price we've got to sell a
lot of it from the operation but i know the products are so good even though we make a very
small profit on each item you'll like them and then order more especially things like the coffee
that's so good or our toothpaste or our mouthwash or our vitamin mineral fusion uh fruit punch drink
it's got all the amino acids and multivitamins our probiotic all of it's super mild vitality 50%
off never done that and free shipping boom super thermal vitality 50% off with free shipping boom
bomb defense 50% off with free shipping with the free shipping folks it's a loss leader you sign up
for auto ship we're losing like six seven dollars on this that matter i just want you to see how great
it is we're now four and a half hours into the worldwide broadcast america rebirth and renaissance
was so much coming up today from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
and paul watson hosting from lennon england and here he is paul joseph watson
thanks alex it is the fourth hour of the alex jones show got a ton of needs coming up
first i want to start off with central theme which is the war on christmas now remember
10 15 years ago this is something that bill o'reilly these are the neocons would constantly bring up
people would uh debunk it and say it's a it's a false concern it's being exaggerated there's no
war on christmas what are you talking about this is crazy well fast forward to 2017 a little bit
of a different story of course last week we had the release of the tesco christmas ad tesco is
basically the uk u k equivalent of walmart is the biggest supermarket chain in the country
one of the biggest corporations in the world they of course released a christmas ad they called it
a christmas ad or at least it was supposed to be that didn't have any symbols of christianity
in the ad whatsoever it did have a gay couple hijabi muslims all this other goth no actual christian
symbol because of course we can't have that anymore can we you've seen the yogurt products from all
these different companies where they have to airbrush out crosses on the top of christian churches
because god forbid somebody somewhere might be offended they see the christmas ad tesco ad
that's causing all the controversy in this country over the past week of course there was a backlash
to the backlash which basically peaked yesterday with twitter twitter came out and said this was
one of their featured stories in their twitter moments which of course is on the home page
when anybody goes onto twitter so a ton of people would have seen this they said that this was the
actual twitter moment i'll read from it they said people are loving the diversity in the tesco
christmas ad this was on the front page of twitter everybody saw this on twitter yesterday
it says tesco's christmas advert features a gay couple and a muslim family enjoying the season
whatever that means the advert has drawn mixed reactions but most viewers most viewers seem
overjoyed like who on earth would be overjoyed by a commercial but this is what they said
most viewers seem overjoyed at the diverse representation okay that is fake news in fact
i tweeted about it you go on to the youtube version of this christmas ad this new tesco christmas ad
four thousand thumbs down one thousand thumbs up a four to one thumbs down to thumbs up ratio
that does not mean people are loving it that's a complete lie that is fake news certainly doesn't
mean that anybody's overjoyed by it look at that it's down six to three k now so they've managed
to get it up a little bit only six thousand thumbs down to three so now it's two to one
no but is that being overjoyed is that people loving the ad no the vast majority of people
don't like it there've been newspaper articles about it all week well paul this is cultural
appropriation this is what the left's all about is overriding taking control of everything dominating
culture well alex it doesn't even make sense muslims don't celebrate christmas all the all
the headlines like oh you're so offended at seeing muslims it's like no i'm offended at the fact or
i'm perplexed at the fact there's no like if you had an ad saying this this holiday season
support ramadan at your local hall all stores and then it showed guys at night's template
uniforms at the muslim store buying goat brands and they're like oh why are you so offended by
nobody really cares just at least like put a vicar in it or something across anything christian
it's a christmas ad for god's sake but here's the kicker it's like having a christmas ad where
you drag santa claus behind a car yeah i went into tesco on saturday went to the christmas
section of the store not one mention of christmas they don't even mention the word christ they've
got these christmas cards alex they call them they've renamed them they're now called charity cards
oh you gotta go back in and get some footage of this well i've got the pictures and i tweet them
but people said oh that's because a portion of the proceeds are donated to charity yeah that's
always been the case but they were called christmas cards okay they've changed the name of christmas
cards to charity cards and this is in one store okay so all these people who oh you know i went to
a tesco store in a completely different part of the country and found the word christmas yeah
i'm not talking about that i'm talking about the store that i went in they had crackers it said six
crackers they don't call them christmas crackers anymore they had a ton of confectionary chocolate
sweets that didn't say christmas anywhere on the packaging they're deliberately exising out the word
they are memory-holding christmas they are banning the word yeah and it's obviously a lame nod to
political correctness it's not this oh everyone's welcome that's how they sell it alex everyone's
welcome now muslims don't care about christmas they don't celebrate it and they're not going to get
offended if you don't put them in a christmas hat this is a bunch of guilty self-guilt tripping white
people on the far left who are doing this and they're literally undermining our culture now we're
i mean this is not some kind of bill o'reilly meme from the early 2000s anymore this is actually
happening there's a headline up on the guardian threats to boycott tesco after muslim family
features in christmas hat again completely misrepresenting the source of the controversy
which was that back there were no christian symbols in the entire ad for christmas just like the
yoghurt companies the big yoghurt companies have have shut it out they've airbrushed out
the crosses on top of the christian churches when they sell their products because god forbid it
might offend somebody this is a deliberate or welly in process of eliminating words changing
language for the purposes of some lame nod at political correctness and it's it's chilling
and we should be angry about this and yeah there are some tesco stores across the country which
will have some things that say christmas but they're gradually airbrushing it out and it's insidious
here's another headline again proving that the war on christmas is not some right-wing conspiracy
theory voice of europe reports paris cancels christmas market holds special ramadan party
every year now this is a christmas market in paris that i've been to on several occasions massive
cultural icon of a festivity no longer going to exist the sean's lee's a christmas market in paris
sean's lee's a central paris iconic area has been cancelled by city hall council as it's
considered the city's main christmas market and welcomes 15 million visitors every year hugely
successful globally renowned it's gone according to a spokesperson of the city hall the french
capital wants to vote this is a quote wants to focus on offering visitors and parisians
more attractive and innovative events that will enhance the sean's lee's a in a cultural
and aesthetic dimension in keeping with this exceptional side oh so you're all bothered
our aesthetics meanwhile you're literally building a wall around the eiffel tower because islam's is
such a massive religion of peace oh but now you care about aesthetics okay since 2008 this market
in paris has been organized by marcel campion but due to long-term dispute the contract was
terminated this year according to john france why martin deputy mayor in charge of tourism
market wasn't good enough for paris so they've cancelled this but of course uh the daily street
prayers where they literally have a call to prayer at five a.m and go and kneel on the street that
will continue another one french top court bans christian nativity scenes from public spaces
christmas nativity scenes the french council of state has ruled for a ban on christmas nativity
scenes in public spaces unless special circumstances show that this has a cultural artistic or festive
purpose so you can't just have a christmas festivity nativity scene in public for the sake of oh i
don't know where a christ where a christian country this is the very foundation of our entire society
no that's not a good enough reason you have to prove that it's diverse enough that it's
representative enough culturally and we're gonna ban it because you can't prove that the decision
of the council of state relates to the nativity scene that the mayor of bezier robert menard
had installed in 2014 in 2015 16 a crash was again installed but with a more cultural and
festive dimension because you can't just you can't just have a christian nativity scene with a baby
jesus and whatever no no that's that might offend somebody ban it ban it it was accompanied by a
christmas tree can't have that ban that and a mailbox to write so santa claus so even like
the non christian stuff there's more commercial stuff the santa claus the christmas tree or
whatever which is actually pagan even that they're even banning that because it might offend somebody
okay here's another one this was last year and we're gonna see more of this i'll get into it
after the break this is the alex show and show live in four walls dot com are you happy washing
your hands with harsh chemicals are you happy doing laundry with detergents are you happy paying
high prices find your happiness with pure soap these all natural earth friendly pure soaps are
the very best you've ever used buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48 months to plot or get items individually
and still save big you're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now earth
friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best happiness is five star soap dot com
why not put your money up the drain for a change see them at five star soap dot com or call
1-800-340-7091 for a catalog calben soap company can save you thousands of dollars
and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable
and coconut oils see their full selection of soaps at five star soap dot com that's f i v e
star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog hello mr. anderson the nsa has
noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites we have no choice but to consider you
a domestic terrorist tired of your internet activity being monitored by big brother get
virtual shield dot com the world's easiest to use virtual private network browse the web
anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust get started today at virtual shield
dot com take advantage of our free 30-day trial virtual shield dot com you have the right to
remain private it's a no-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need
a water filter that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the
original most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners
receive five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click 1-877-99 burky or
big burky water filters dot com that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y you go to infowarstore.com and get game
changing amazing products we've been sold out of dna force for almost four months using gradient
start nutraceutical grade the highest quality the bio pqq all of it it's 25 percent off the truck
got in this morning and it's back but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all
the rest of it is the highest quality read about what it'll do for you and your family it is amazing
we also have been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality probiotic it's
25 percent off out of the gates back in stock but for a very limited time so you get the highest
quality the very cleanest stuff out there we're really really proud of it dna force and biome
defense probiotic now back in stock info wars life dot com when you buy products from globalist
it's an active trading with the enemy it is an act of war it is an act of standing up when
you spread the links the articles and buy products from us and then we commit rampage against the
enemy totally i want to plow into all of this then i'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or
books or videos or other material from info wars store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean
i cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store
dot com i don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children
and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad with colloidal silver
and iodine as well info wars life dot com or triple a 253 3139 and your purchase of the products
stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against the globalists and their
satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're
coming back against us so we need your support you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show
and now your host paul joseph watching doesn't even matter if you're a christian or not the fact is
if you want to subvert undermine and eventually overthrow western civilization which is what
the far left wants to do even though many of them don't know it they're useful idiots then you've
got to take down christianity because it's the fundamental fundamental underpinning of western
society and this is the process that we see right now with the encroachment of islam not
just radical islam but mass islamic immigration and yet in most cases those who are supposedly
were told might be offended by any of this they're not even a feather they even care
is other people getting offended on their behalf we've seen it with the yoghurt companies little
nestly airbrushing christian crosses from the yoghurt packaging i mean most people
wouldn't even notice it anyway if you go to my twitter i just retweeted an example of that
before and after shot it's the it's a church in greece they've airbrushed it out because it had
a cross on top of the church for yoghurt for yoghurt there you see it absolutely incredible
so tesco's come out with this christmas ad that has no christian symbols in it whatsoever the media
took that spun it and said oh look at all these bigots offended because there were some hijabi
muslims in the advert no that's not the point the point is why are you putting muslims in a
christmas advert they don't celebrate christmas they don't care number two where are the christian
symbols all right you've got gay dads in there fair enough whatever put at least put a cross in there
i mean come on and then twitter comes out and outright lies and say people are loving the
diversity and the new tesco ad gone youtube 6000 thumbs down as of now compared to 3000 thumbs up
no people are not loving it the clear majority of people hate it because they see this gradual
orwellian erosion of tradition of culture of language and it's insidious it's no longer
some bill o'reilly meme when it's actually happening france has banned nativity scenes in public
spaces we had this story last year out of the express out of germany it's going to be replicated
even more so again this year remember this is the around the time that an islamic terrorist migrant
unbarreled a truck through a christmas market in berlin killing what over a dozen people
enduring dozens more these are who we're capitulating to this is the great capitulation
we're witnessing right now christmas banned from being mentioned on menu over fears it would offend
muslims christmas streets have been taken off a menu and replaced with winter delicacies
over fears the phrase would offend muslims function held at the austrian embassy in germany
still serve traditional festive bear but rebranded them as winter delicacy so you can't even serve
food that's called christmas because it might offend a muslim you know like the asan bernadino
killers were offended by the christmas party we don't want to offend those kind of people do we
here's another one out of germany again we are a muslim business woolworth store cancels christmas
over islamic customers woolworth has cancelled christmas in one of its german stores after
claiming it's only remaining customers are muslim the former high street favorite went
boss seven years ago in the uk but still operates 300 stores in germany and a row broke out after
staff at a branch in dotman decided not to bother with christmas decorations gifts or music this
year because it's now essentially a muslim store shocked locals found out of the christmas section
which featured featured decorations gifts and festive treats such as chocolate for the christmas
don't call it for the christmas was removed just a few after just a few days on display so
that was because it was essentially in a muslim ghetto they just got rid of it i mean what i mean
perhaps tesco shouldn't really be having christmas sections at all they shouldn't be selling
christmas cards or charity cards as they're called now they shouldn't be selling crackers they
shouldn't be selling wrapping paper that might offend a muslim decorations tinsel baubles that
might offend somebody i think is that's i think i'm starting to get triggered by the fact they
they've even got a christmas section i mean think of the precious muslims you might offend them
in fact that's actually a narrative that we've seen from the left don't offend the muslims it
might turn them into terrorists what first of all that's the most islamophobic thing you could
ever say because it's introducing the premise that you can just turn a muslim into a terrorist by
making them upset which kind of gives you a clue that it's that's quite easy for them to become
terrorists in the first place very bigoted very islamophobic as is christmas sections all in
supermarkets get rid of them all ban everything ban christmas trees ban santa claus someone
might be offended and if you've got a video on youtube of a christmas ad without any christian
symbols in it like tesco does and it's got 6000 thumbs down compared to only 3000 thumbs up just
say everybody's loving it just just lie through your teeth on the front page of twitter and say
everybody loves it it's so diverse everybody's loving it they're overjoyed that was the word
they literally used twitter said people were overjoyed yeah 6000 thumbs down that that's
literally fake news okay that is the war on christmas i'm sure we'll be talking about it again
given the fact that it's only november the 14th before we get back into this news i want to tell
you though how you can support info wars this christmas and stock up on great products by
taking advantage of extended free shipping sales are ending and sales are beginning so it's your
last chance to get on board with some of these sales that are ending and we have new ones coming
through as well we're extending free shipping while supplies last for biome defense 50 the popular
probiotic formula so make sure while you still have chance to take advantage of that 50% off
discount we don't know when this item's coming back so be sure to get on board with that right now
z shield we're also adding that and dropping it by 50 plus free shipping brings you toxic metal
and chemical defense support through its proprietary blend of powerful ingredients dropped by a whole
50 in price that's a massive discount the caveman true paleo formula is back for 50 off again with
free shipping at info wars store.com you can experience why caveman has thousands of five star
reviews from our third party reviewers and again those reviews are real people we don't sit there
and create fake reviews they're all verified vetted most of them the vast majority of them five
star for caveman true paleo formula and that also has free shipping and a huge 50 off we've also
got specials which are still going on which won't be around for long vitamin mineral fusion 50% off
super blue fluoride free mouthwash 50% off and dna force 25% off again with free shipping secret
12 a massive 50% off with free shipping don't forget brain force plus the mainstream media the
verified liptards on twitter had an absolute meltdown over that last weekend because they found an
ad in which i had made a commercial for brain force plus six months ago they found it oh my god
what's this we've just discovered this yeah six months old god forbid i was advertising a new
tropic product that's taken by like half the people in silicon valley that's proven to help with
cognitive functioning brain force plus nothing triggers them more than you stocking up on brain
force plus right now at info wars dot com we're going to talk about barbie's first hijab after the
break break due to info wars dot com don't go away most people think life insurance pays after
you're dead that's true but did you know you can have tax free access to your life insurance
while you're still alive you can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your
money with certainty and guarantees no stock market risk no tax risk and no penalties call life
benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done call 702-660-7000 that's 702-660-7000
want revenge on the common housefly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come up with a
better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition
non-toxic and no batteries required 39 95 plus shipping and handling use discount code gcn and
receive 15 off your purchase at bug assault dot com fire your fly swatter and get your bug assault
today refresh your breath with america stencils organic mouthwash our formula is made from organic
herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant
refreshing taste america stencils mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol
chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes the pure organic
plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to
help tone gum and freshen your breath his antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula you will
need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water america stencils mouthwash is a great
addition to your daily brushing routine it is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive
gum and canker sores go organic today with america stencils visit info war store dot com to learn more
that's info war store dot com you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life
our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract
l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our
natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the
sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants to bring you a sleep
support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep
you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say
goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com we're running the biggest specials we've run in
like six months and free shipping store wide at info store dot com and when we sell products at
this lower price we got to sell a lot of it from the operation but i know the products are so good
even though we make a very small profit on each item you'll like them and then order more especially
things like the coffee that's so good or our toothpaste or our mouthwash or our vitamin mineral
fusion uh fruit punch drink it's got all the amino acids and multivitamins our probiotic all of it
super mill vitality 50% off never done that and free shipping boom super film all vitality 50%
off with free shipping boom bomb defense 50% off with free shipping with the free shipping folks
it's a loss leader you sign up for auto ship we're losing like six seven dollars on this
that matter i just want you to see how great it is we're now four and a half hours into the
worldwide broadcast america rebirth and renaissance was so much coming up today
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones show
and now your host paul joseph watson
live it is a fourth hour of the alex jones show i'm gonna go to a video now which just went up on
info wars dot com about an hour ago which i put out about this transgender individual who's also
claiming that he's transracial this is a white guy this is a chubby pasty white guy born a man
he's not even making the effort to look like a woman although he claims he's transgender
he also claims that he's transracial and that he's filipino he's made decidedly less effort
to be transracial compared to uh rachel dolezal who of course the mainstream media came out and
elements of it celebrated her melissa harris perry as you'll see in this clip got up on msnbc and said
yeah i think it is possible for people to just become black even if they were born white with
ginger hair just you know because they feel black they actually signed on to some of that insanity
and this is taking it to a new level this is uh the transgender guy who thinks he's a filipino here's
the clip man says he's transracial oh god not this again this milky white tub of lard born adam
says he now identifies as a filipino woman called jar do whenever i'm around the music
i'm around the food i feel like i'm in my own skin yeah you're about as filipino as rachel
dolezal is african-american are you african-american and who was born white but believes that he is
filipino there are just so many questions here you're the news why are you treating this as a
real news story what's wrong with you so many questions here but why it gets worse they talked
to a psychologist who instead of having a normal reaction you know laughing uncontrollably for
minutes on end actually legitimize this moron's feverish delusion are they hurting you are they
hurting anyone else are they hurting themselves and are they just trying to be who they feel
they are inside they're going to be happier okay so i've decided that i'm a black single mother
with eight children can i take advantage of affirmative action can i get welfare i mean
this is who i feel i am on the inside and i'm not hurting anyone so who are you to tell me i can't
be happy but it's like at least rachel dolezal made the effort she blacked up and put her hair in
cornrows what's this guy done died his hair pink and bought a tuck tuck hasn't even made the effort
to look like a woman never mind filipino at least the girl who claims she's a cat born in a human
body commits to it i'd watch the history channel sometimes for hours oh but he's watched the
history channel okay i've watched some kids television and now i identify as barney the purple
dinosaur you know i had to make sure that it wasn't just me because if it's just me then there
must be something wrong or maybe i'm just maybe i'm just strange yeah if we can agree on one thing
mate it's that you're strange but hey when you've got pundits on actual mainstream news shows saying
that you can just become black if you feel like it then all bets are off but is it possible
that she might actually be black and there's actually a different category of blackness
that is about the achievement of blackness despite one's parentage is that possible it's
absolutely possible so if i wear a sombrero on halloween i'm guilty of cultural appropriation
but if i just start walking around claiming to be mexican that's okay this is the bed you
progressives have made with this everything is a social construct crap so it's time to lie in it
if you're gonna claim that men can have babies that gender is fluid and a person's gender identity
may change over their lifetime the infants shouldn't be assigned a sex at birth if you're
gonna claim that biological science no longer matters and that when all on a spectrum then you
can't argue against this freak's claim that she's a reptile you can't argue against this weirdo's
claim that he's a six-year-old girl i um have a mommy and daddy a adopted mommy and daddy who are
totally comfortable with me being a little girl you can't argue against this idiot's claim that he's
filipino embrace it because you're responsible for all this insanity time to own it this man says
he's trans that is the video that just went up on info wars dot com earlier get it out there
of course if you're gonna start off on the premise of everything being a social construct
you're gonna run into trouble and now you're running into big trouble with these people
claiming that they pour drain cleaner in their eyes to be trendy that that's just what they
identify as don't you dare call it a mental illness if that's what makes them happy don't be a bigger
okay you own that narrative now well done cnn reports barbie's first hijab meet the new
ibaj muhammad doll matel which makes barbie announced monday the latest doll in its shiro
shiro collection will be modeled after olympic fencer ibaj muhammad in 2016 muhammad became the
first american to compete in the games while wearing a hijab she said i'm proud to know that
little girls everywhere can now play with a barbie who chooses to wear hijab this is a childhood
dream come true the news was announced at glamour's women of the year summit the doll will go on sale
in 2018 barbie has been working hard to make sure its collection of dolls are more diverse in an
effort to broaden the brand's appeal now where did this barbie hijab barbie idea originate from
did it originate from this olympic athlete no it originated from feminist because we
reported on it before that they were pressuring matel into creating a hijab barbie because again
they were basically fearful of trump's election and thought that it would herald a new islamophobic
purge in america of course nothing like that has happened but again this came from feminists
didn't come from muslim groups it came from predominantly white feminist leftist groups
who have sided with islam despite the fact that islam is the most misogynistic sexist
belief system on the planet and by the way that's what arab feminist groups a hundred years ago
thought because it was the egyptian feminist union one of the first feminist groups in existence
in that part of the world that discarded their hijabs as a form of protest so the very first
muslim arab feminist group in the middle east discarded their hijabs let that sink in a hundred
years ago they knew it was a symbol of oppression a hundred years later cnn and all the rest of
these dominant cultural institutions are presenting it as a symbol of feminism coming as it does from
the same part of the world that literally gave birth to something called the rape game which of
course we saw in egypt with laura logan and which of course we've seen imported into the west on the
wave of islamic immigration which has brought with it skyrocketing sexual assault figures
the mass molestation of women in major cities like cologne of course what did the feminists
do in cologne the day after the event the day after what a thousand predominantly moroccan
muslim migrants molested 2000 women what did the feminists do did they protest against the migrants
for importing their rape culture no they went down to the local migrant center and gave the
migrants flowers that's how the feminists responded to the mass molestation of women oh and by the
way you know what muslim syrian women do in areas of syria that have been liberated from isis what's
the first thing they do they discard their hijab because isis enforces stringent rules on islamic
headwear they make everybody wear a burqa at least if not the full face covering they discard the
veils when they're liberated from isis but cnn feminists all these dominant cultural institutions
want you to believe it's trendy all right all right don't listen to me listen to azra q
nomani the founder of the muslim reform movement she wrote that the hijab is quote a symbol of a
dangerous purity culture obsessed with honor and virginity that has divided muslim communities in
her own civil war because again this is not me saying this this is the head of the muslim reform
movement since the saudi and iranian regimes promulgated puritanical interpretations of sunni
and she islam after the 1970s saudi oil boom and the 79 iranian revolution and she lists numerous
examples where this purity culture has resulted the deaths of young women and girls we'll get
back on the other side to talk about it this is the alex john show live breaking news at info
wars dot com don't go away if you go to info war store dot com and get game changing amazing
products we've been sold out of dna force for almost four months these ingredients are
nutraceutical grade the highest quality the bio pqq all of it it's 25 off the truck got in
this morning and it's back but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all the rest of
it is the highest quality read about what it'll do for you and your family it is amazing we also
been sold out for three months on biome defense super high quality probiotic it's 25 off out of
the gates back in stock but for a very limited time so you get the highest quality the very
cleanest stuff out there we're really really proud of it dna force and biome defense robotic now back
in stock info wars live dot com and when you buy products from globalist it's an active trading
with the enemy it is an act of war it is an act of standing up when you spread the links the articles
and buy products from us and then we commit to rampage against the enemy totally protect your
skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emrick's essentials perfect for face and body this natural
unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun protection we source
ingredients from nature producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins this natural
lotion contains 21 percent zinc oxide which is the largest particle size used and we do not use
nano particles the larger the particle the safer it is for your body the organic oils help hydrate
the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most
sensitive skin emrick's essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic
products to enhance your life naturally protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emrick's
essentials stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit info wars store.com
and learn more about the new spf 30 sunscreen lotion support good oral health with our one of
a kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend
with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made
with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super
blue fluoride free mouthwash and supercharge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features
natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing
fluoride our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other
beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride
free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free
products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info wars store.com
that's info wars store.com i am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function
our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info
wars life.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've been testing
this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public so please take advantage
of it today support your own health and support the info war you're listening to the alex jones show
broadcasting live from the un stronghold austin texas you're listening to the alex jones show
and now your host paul joseph watson so matel has released their first hijab barbie having been
directed to but having been directed to by actual feminists who of course have sided with islam the
most misogynistic belief system on the planet and we were talking about how the hijab is not
a symbol of feminism again no matter how hard they try and sell that propaganda the hijab is not
a symbol of feminism we were talking about asra q namani the founder of the muslim reform movement
oh by the way the first arab feminist muslim groups in the middle east discarded the hijab
they saw it as a symbol of oppression a hundred years ago but now cnn says it's cool trendy and
diverse and it's it's a feminist symbol okay let's listen to what asra namani says she cites
examples of this hijab purity culture and how it's led to the deaths of young women and girls
recently in barreilly india a father killed his daughter four years old smashing her head against
the floor when her scarf slipped from her head during dinner in ontario a few years ago a man
strangled his 16 year old sister when she defied their father including by refusing to cover her hair
back in november last year a former university of missouri instructor dragged a female relative aged
14 out of school by the hair when he discovered she hadn't covered her hair today in iran friends of
the journalist mahesh alan ajad dodge batons as they shoot photos of themselves hair bear in a
campaign alan ajad started my stealthy freedom to protest against iran's mandatory headscarf law
you've seen the pictures we shared them in the past women in iran muslim women take off their veil
as a form of protest they're protesting for actual feminist freedom because they ran in
forces and draconian law making them wear a headscarf so all across the middle east the hijab
is a sign of oppression it's a sign of the actual patriarchy and now it's being promoted by feminist
you want to talk about toxic masculinity that's the only place in which it exists really in the
world few other places but mainly there and you're promoting the very symbol of toxic masculinity
by claiming it's some kind of feminist symbol it's not the women in syria liberated from isis
discard their veil because isis makes them wear it it's not a feminist symbol it's not a symbol
of freedom to cover up women i see like four five-year-old kids running around in hijabs
it's just completely wrong no matter how hard you try and push this it's not going to work it's not
going to work absolutely incredible let's tell you again about info wars store.com before we get
into a few final news because we've got all the great specials up there again 50 off info wars
store.com a ton of great specials we also have brain force now this is what i really want to
emphasize brain force you have to get your brain force you have to stock up for christmas on
brain force because it triggers the left like nothing more i'm going to talk about this every
week forever now let's just absolutely cash in on this you remember buzzfeed of course
they came out with a big hit piece about our products saying oh is there something wrong
with info wars products turns out no they're perfectly fine gave us a nice little boost we
actually made money off that hit piece and we used it to sell more products in the future we
actually created a buzzfeed special at the time we should probably create a brain force special
that sometime in the near future given the amount of triggering that's gone on with the
mainstream media as regards to brain force brain force plus over the past couple of weeks so you
can get your brain force stock up for christmas get all the other great specials 50 off a lot of
them with free shipping across the board at info wars store.com now in this final few minutes let's
get back into something that i was talking about in a video called the new sexual puritans now of
course we've had a massive fallout from this sex abuse scandal now if you go up on drudgerport.com
they've got a story about ariana hoffington turned a blind eye to sexual abuse sexual assault at
the hoffington post this is really affecting predominantly the left of course it first emerged
out of hollywood with the harvey weinstein revelations now it's infecting politics over in
the uk we had the pest minster scandal so-called because there was a lot of revelations about
sex abuse being uncovered in west minster of course now it's affecting newsrooms across america
predominantly left wing now of course you had sex abuse scandals on the right you've got the
judge roymor situation now he denies the allegations it's predominantly though affects the left
which of course is highly ironic because they're the ones who constantly virtue signal about our
misogynistic about how sexist the right is and yet what do we see a lot of the most prominent
vehement male feminists have since been exposed as sexual abusers of women because we had the
hilarious case of sam christ who was a very prominent hater of mine he was a vice writer i
think he also wrote for the guardian he was a male feminist he was one of my most vehement haters
he was a far left marxist constantly virtue signaling about how we were all misogynistic
bigots of course you know what happened to sam christ right well the woman who he sexually assaulted
went public and basically laid bare how he was trying to get her to have sex with him she wasn't
interested he put his hands on her he sexually assaulted her he also bragged about by the way
this is a marxist remember this is a marxist he bragged about how he could take her back
to quote his parents massive house or his massive house he said i can take you back to my massive
house the girl said well it's not your house is it it's your parents house and he said well yeah
but i'm going to inherit it this is a marxist he's talking about the economic system in that way
and he's sexually assaulting women and he admitted to it he's since disappeared from twitter
and the irony is delectable because he was the one he was one of the prominent people who was
lecturing everybody else about how they need to be an ally of women a male feminist he turns
out to be an actual sexual abuser because he also had rupert mayers he also had to apologize for
grabbing for groping women he was a vehement male feminist so again the fallout seems to affect
predominantly a lot on the left but as i explained in this video the new sexual puritans which is
upon my youtube channel it's now kind of crossed over it's transgressed into something more which is
is third wave feminism having been completely debunked and discredited now hijacking this scandal
as it crosses across the board from the entertainment industry to politics to newsrooms
they're hijacking the scandal to demonize and to demean all men now i give evidence of this
in the article a new video sorry of course we had lindy west being given a platform last week
another top feminist lindy west given a platform by the new york times to basically make the
argument that this proves that feminist third wave screeching harpy feminists were right all
along that all men are evil that it was right to hate men that miss andry is perfectly okay
because look look what happened look at all these men abusing women so again they institute this
collectivist narrative where all men an entire gender are to blame for the actions of a relative
few if you compare the few who've been exposed to the actual male population in the west conflate
that and use it to demonize all men to say look we were right all along and what did lindy west do
what did these other top feminists do in the aftermath of the harpy winds theme scandal
well they wrote articles they wrote blogs and had videos saying basically men need to ascribe
to all these different behaviors in fact there was one medium article which listed 20 behaviors
that men needed to take that needed to change and adopt in order to not be an evil sex sexist
misogynistic abuser of women so they basically came out and said look you're all guilty you had
am and what was his name matt moghory the actor on cnn come out and say we're all complicit all men
are complicit in this we're all guilty oh and by the way the only way for you to atone for it
is to adopt all our demented far-left political beliefs well isn't that a coincidence the only
way we can prove we're not evil sexual abusers is by adopting all your political beliefs oh but this
is about protecting women isn't it no it's not it's about power it always comes back to power
so in one case in this medium article this top feminist and it's in the video you can
read the examples she basically goes through it and said right now you need to support abortion
you need to support black lives matter there was all kind of weird stuff in there like you need to
only watch ethical porn whatever that is a bunch of other stuff she said you can't use the term
social justice warrior anymore that's sexist you can't use the term feminazi anymore basically an
entire list of language policing of thought policing of behavior control and if you don't
adopt all of this you're an evil sexist misogynistic abuser of women that's what they're doing with
the fallout from this sexual abuse scandal they're conflating it hijacking it using it for their own
ends that's going to wrap it up for this hour of the alex joneshow war room is coming up breaking
news at info wars dot com be sure to get the product playing force cross at info wars store
dot com we'll be back don't go away vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life dot com to
secure your chemister we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the
most powerful and affordable great tasting multi vitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion
drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins
minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we've
brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many others
with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized
effects this formula is the platinum standard of multi vitamin mineral products and this part is
most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the
tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action
now before we sell out america is an information based civil war that's why now more than ever
we've got to hit the streets of america and let these globalists scum know we're not backing
down from their bully we're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe
dictatorship being a conservative a nationalist a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate
is truly the counterculture the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro america pro capitalism
and pro freedom who at the same time is tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit of thomas
geverson's classical liberalism they are the anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded
friends and promote freedom worldwide we've got more than 60 original designs of high quality
t-shirts for men and women as well as more patriot feral at info war store dot com be part of the
second american revolution at info war store dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
