Big Brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want to stop tyranny well
so does he live from the info wars.com studios it's Alex Jones
to watch the media call President Trump a liar or question everything he says
and everything he does when it's the known liars the known discredited groups
that are the ones doing the questioning. Charlie Wurzel who's the person Wurzel
who the reporter actually did the story confesses in his write-up about why he
did it but he actually didn't get much out of the article the interview the guy
several times he didn't connect any dots and sometimes and he didn't kill the
story right he still did it anyway and this focus on the appearance on where
he's shopping it did feel almost like it should be in the fashion section of the
paper and I maybe you can explain to me why that needs to be even done yeah you
know sometimes it's okay to kill stories even when you send someone to a few
states away and you come back and you say I didn't get it and you killed the
story yeah if this had happened in a vacuum people say well the New York Times
took a swing and a miss and they missed and okay so what this is part of a very
larger story for last 12 months and the DC press led by the New York Times has
been obsessed with humanizing celebrating normalizing Trump voters and
they've gotten so far to the right now they're trying to normalize Nazis give
us a question don't be a question I'm not gonna give you a question you
state character you are fake news sir go ahead when he gets told out of
Harvard study showing millions of illegal voted he goes and looks into it
finds out it's true I mean that's what Trump does you notice will be on the
campaign trail people are handing him stuff or he'll he'll start writing things
down just talking to an old black lady or old white guy or young woman you see
Trump writing things down he's obsessed with what people tell him at his hotels
in his condos Trump routinely would just walk around for hours and just write
down what people think and what they say and then blow up at people about you
didn't do this you didn't do that you didn't respond fast enough when their
water heater was out I was reading a story years ago years ago I was first
looking into Trump about Trump when he had a new hotel opening he went through
every hotel room in the building because he'd paid for a white and black
marble and sure enough he had a feeling that they might and on a few of the
smaller rooms and side areas they had cheap green quote Chinese is what the
quote was marble and he blew up and he said that's not the armoires I paid
for and that's not the marble I paid for he goes and my customers are gonna
get the white marble and then the point is is that he's the type of OCD when it
comes to details that we need and the fact that he's listing the people isn't
some negative thing he wants to actually hear what you're saying and what's
going on with you so it's not like something special that I've told Trump
stuff he's gone and looked into it and then when he found that it was true
responded because he does that on the campaign trail you'll see him talking
to somebody he'll go pulls out a yellow pad with a marker and starts writing on
it and he'll just have pockets full of it he gets on his jet and then just pulls
him out and starts looking at it and then talks to an aide has them go look it
up for him and bring it back to him it's not just people bringing the president
news clippings he says I want this looked into I want that looked into I
want this looked into I want that looked into until two in the morning most
nice he's in there checking stuff now we kick off the main broadcast here in
just a few minutes boy there is a lot to get into obviously in so many video
clips and a breakdown as well but the mainstream media is back their usual
tricks with their fake news attacking info wars this has been running a whole
bunch of newspapers today Alex Jones suggests the Vegas mass shooting was
fake no I didn't I said it was real but the official story is as funny as the
$3 bill these people are really getting desperate and it's amazing to watch these
con artists flounder I'm so excited the new product info wars life calm in a
glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top
the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have
any stimulus in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that
quite frankly I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their
patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred two
hundred dollars for the formulae and I came up with our own formula working with
scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in America 120 capsules and
ladies and gentlemen you add the preglin own to it which is the precursor to all
the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands
it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store.com and your purchase
funds the operation language and sequences some viewers may find
disturbing
the nation and all of our freedoms hang by a thread and the military apparatus of this country is about to be handed over to Stumb or be
called to Stumb and the Russian Stumb. Please listen if you don't if you want if you fail to understand then the same incredible terror that's menacing me will strike at you.
The function of all life is survival. Sleep. Sleep. Sleep.
They're coming. They're coming. Help. Help. They're coming. They're coming. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me.
Please. Please. Your next one in danger. Please listen to me. Something terrible. Please. Your next here they are. They're already here. Help. Your next. They're coming. They're coming.
Mr. Dunzo. Sleep. The seed is planted. Sleep. Sleep. Terror. Grows.
Elizabeth wake up. Get you when you sleep. Sit up.
Invasion of the body snatchers.
All of a sudden they're growing like parasites. Is it contagious?
Real homies.
It looks right at me.
You're looking at it as if it was human. It was not human.
Now the classic fear begins to grow.
We're being cornered.
In a modern masterpiece of science fiction.
You're barricading the street.
Invasion of the body snatchers.
To the land of the walking dead.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're here live broadcasting worldwide.
I am your host, Alex Jones. We're going to be live here for the next four hours and
Paul Joseph Watson is also going to be hosting the fourth hour. Former board
member and one of the founding members of the Davos group, Ted Malik is going to
be joining us to talk about the accelerated collapse of the corporate
world government and the fact that the neoliberal world government system is an
authoritarian monster that is now in full retreat. Despite all the PR pieces they
put out, they've got a new push going with the New York Times, the Washington
Post, Wall Street Journal, the LA Times, Atlantic Monthly, all the usual
suspects operating, of course, along with Keith Oberman and others, announcing
victory, that Trump is a Russian agent, that America's recovery is a Russian
plot, that taking care of our veterans is a Russian operation, and that Flynn is
turning against Trump, and that Trump is going to be out of office very, very soon.
This is their big push with Robert Mueller up to his eyeballs in real Russian
collusion, as well as Communist Chinese, you name it, all of that coming out, but
despite that they are doubling down. There's all these articles in the New
York Times, you name it, Trump and Russia seem to find common foe, the American
press. It's not American press, it's globalist press that hates Christians,
hates conservatives, hates gun owners, hates America, hates our veterans, hates
free market, they're monopoly men. I got a stack of articles today with CNN,
MSNBC, pundits, bad-mouthing, flyover America, saying rural communities are
terrorist, rural communities are bad, that Republicans have got to be locked up
once they take control of the government again, because they know there's an
awakening to them, they know their slow stranglehold that they had around our
throat has been loosened as we attempt to struggle free, and so they're now in a
panic mode to force us back into submission, but that's not working either.
So this outside globalist force that destroys nation-states has also seen
Russia struggle free, so the only truth in Russian collusion is that as nation-states
we're trying to escape the same Hydra, the same spider, the same snake. Odds are
Russia owns Trump. Michael Goldberg says, well if Michael Goldberg in the Mexican
kingpin owned New York Times says so, and Iraq has WMDs, right, and uranium
yellow cake, right? Mm-hmm, and there was a 97% chance that Hillary was gonna win
to the New York Times. Odds are, Russia owns Trump, owns him, never built any
buildings in Russia, did have a beauty pageant there, he owns them. So let's
continue, ladies and gentlemen, former IC Watchdog, Hillary Clinton was reckless
and compromised national security threatened to fire me if I reported
concerns about her and personal blowback to my family. So the dam is breaking,
we're gonna cover this when we come back from break. This is a big deal and the
dam is breaking, so that's coming up in the next segment. Also a very powerful
video is on newswars.com and the reason Macron who's been somewhat of a
globalist is having to sound like a nationalist is that's sweeping Europe,
Merkel's losing power, they're all losing power, started in Eastern Europe and
the Brexit in the UK, now it's sweeping Europe with nationalism and self
determination and common sense and survival mechanisms, survival instincts
kicking back in. Macron is out in a crowd in Paris and a woman comes over
complaining that more people can't come into the country when France has been
completely flooded with millions and millions of refugees just in the last
few years and he says go back to Morocco and he says you're not facing
danger, don't say you are, no one's hurting you in Morocco and it's
just made up bull. So we're gonna get to that and of course I
mentioned this article earlier, there's video, MSNBC host declares rule
voters core threat to our democracy, a core threat. So voters are a threat to
democracy, voting is a threat to voting so that's the type of garbage that
they're spewing so that's gonna be coming up as well plus at the bottom of
the next hour I'm going to premiere a shocking special report that is truly
disgusting and I'm not gonna break it until then it deals with Disney. We all
know about Disney and how they hired people to be directors for children's
movies who were convicted child rapists. We all know about Harvey Weinstein being
involved with Disney and the hiring of that rapist. We all know about their
history of sexualizing children and putting sexual messages and images in
their films but we have shocking public evidence of sexualization of children
and their agenda that we will show you here coming up at the bottom of the
next hour so that's coming up as well. The new public enemy number one besides
Trump and myself is now Sean Hannity they're moving to get him kicked off
air. We're gonna break that down big New York Times piece also Facebook rolls
out AI to detect suicidal posts before they're reported. Now we're in the middle
of a special 34-hour broadcast I'm here every day 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Central in
the War Room comes up with Owen Schreuer before that you got the David
Night Show with David Knight where you get tomorrow's news today. I want to
thank you all for your support in making the broadcast possible. The biggest thing
you can do to reach new people is to take the live feeds from infowars.com
forward slash show or on Facebook or on YouTube or on Twitter and share those on
your Facebook share those on your Twitter and and that's a serious act of
rebellion against the globalist because they block us with AI systems but they
can't stop you hand-sharing the articles they can't stop you sending them out on
your email or showing people at work during lunch or or or after work that's
how we win this information war they're trying to smother this awakening it's
failing but it's still a serious fight so please share the live links to the
show until folks put local stations. Hello Mr. Anderson the NSA has noticed how
much time you spend on conservative news sites. We have no choice but to
consider you a domestic terrorist. Tired of your internet activity being
monitored by Big Brother? Get VirtualShield.com. The world's easiest to use
virtual private network. Browse the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers
and spies in the dust. Get started today at VirtualShield.com. Take advantage of
our free 30-day trial. VirtualShield.com. You have the right to remain
private. The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from
insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to
share in each other's medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107
a month and 347 for families. Choose from three health-sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines. Discount
programs available for dental, vision, and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org
that's libertyoncall.org. Water is the single most important thing your
body needs, so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family. Since
2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water. The Berkey guy provides
the lowest price filtration systems in every size. For incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com. We're called 877-886-3653.
877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com. If you or someone you care about loves
outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for some unique holiday gift
ideas. That's slingbow.com, where we have some innovative new products for the
archer, hunter, or bow fishing enthusiast in your family. Now through January, use
the promo code HOLIDAY to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada. And
from all of us at Slingbow Industries, have a safe, joyous, and peaceful holiday
season. Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry. Our ancestors
would hear the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to
organize and prepare a defense. Sixty years ago, when foreign air forces were
approaching filled with bombs, they had drums of their own, air raid sirens. But
in the 21st century, there are silent weapons for quiet war.
Pathogens added to the food and water, and to the lining of plastics that
destroy our vitality, turn off our hormones, and accelerate our journey
towards death. I personally counter this on-slaught with Anthroplex. Anthroplex
is designed with known, organic, concentrated herbs to create the basic
foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body. Discover why
Anthroplex has turned so many heads today. It's time for us to take our bodies
back in our own hands, and it starts at InfoWarsLife.com with Anthroplex.
I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally,
societally, economically, spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top
of giant time bomb. With populations and globalism and the new world order's
manipulation of people's minds, things are getting crazy. We're trying to fix the
country and fix the planet. We've also got to have rearguard actions to be
prepared. The number one thing, after getting right with God, is to have high
quality, storeable food. Well, the entire line of my Patriot supply foods,
private labeled as InfoWars Select, is now 50% off. I've only done that one time
before previously. 50% off, you cannot beat that, and we're only doing that
through Cyber Monday. So it starts today on Thanksgiving and runs through next
Monday. InfoWarsStore.com, you can go right there. It's the full spectrum of my
Patriot. It's private labeled by us. Totally fresh. Last 25 years, 50% off.
50% off. Take action today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
ROOFLESS! Globalists have used the American engine of free market and our
military power to take over the planet. Now, their final target is our Republic.
The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on for your mind.
Now, if we simply stop trusting the establishment, get back to tried and
true, classic Americana systems of liberty and justice and transparency, and stop
putting up with SJW brainwashing, we can get our country back and have a
future. But if we don't, we continue to be victims of this system and follow the
poison being put out by the mainstream media, we have absolutely no future.
Let me get into this big news right now and then after I play the report, I'm
going to get into more details of it here over the actual transcript and
article that I've got right here. This is a report from Fox News. It's dead on
accurate. You've got whistleblowers, you've got informants, you've got FBI
agents, you've got counterterrorism experts that have all been gagged from
being able to testify to Congress or be able to talk to the media about
Robert Mueller and Hillary Clinton and the Uranium One deal and how there was a
criminal investigation by the FBI that was killed by Mueller and then
subsequently by Comey. Intel Watch Dogs says Clinton campaign planned to fire
him over email probe, new Connors accusers and more. So we're going to be
getting to all that. Charles McCullough, the former internal watchdog for the US
intelligence community, investigated the Clinton top secret emails and when he
went to Clapper a year before the presidential election, Clapper and the
Clinton campaign ordered them to basically stand down and do not do
anything and then threatened him and threatened his family. How incredible is
this information? This is such a big big deal. So here is an excerpt of this
really important report. Obama appointee in the federal government says he was
marginalized and even threatened by his superior simply because he tried to raise
the alarm about classified information that resided on Hillary Clinton's
private email server. Our Catherine Harage has that exclusive tonight. It was
personal blowback to me, to my family, to my office. Few people know more about the
Clinton emails on the follow than Charles McCullough, the former internal
watchdog for the US intelligence community. What should the American public
know about those 22 top secret Clinton emails? I've heard people say this is
overblown. I've heard people say this is much to do about nothing. Had the
information been released, there would have been harm to national security. So
putting lives at risk. Absolutely. Sources and methods, lives, operations.
Speaking exclusively to Fox, McCullough says he went to director of national
intelligence James Clapper about a year before the presidential election. The
intelligence agencies had just found their classified information in the
Clinton emails. He read through these affidavits very thoroughly and he said
this is extremely reckless and he mentioned something about the campaign
would have, will have heartburn about that or something. Shortly after,
McCullough says his team was marginalized. You felt you were on your own in
this. I was totally on my own and I was told by senior officials to keep the
director out of it. You drafted this letter in January 2016. Sure did. In the
letter, McCullough told Congress that emails beyond top secret passed through
the former secretary of state's unsecured personal server. All of a sudden I
became a shill of the right. I was told by members of Congress, be careful, you're
losing your credibility. There are people out to get you. By February 2016, Clinton
campaign emails released by WikiLeaks suggest McCullough was a target. I think
there was certainly a coordinated strategy that I, in fact, I, I not only think
it, I, I think it very, very much so. Based on evidence. Yes. Even though the FBI
email investigation was far from complete, the Clinton campaign nailed down
its talking points. Was there an effort to deliberately mislead the public about
the classified emails? Absolutely. There was an effort on the, certainly on the
part of the campaign to mislead people into thinking that there was nothing to
see here. Frankly, the thing that disappointed me the most was the
president saying there's classified and then there's classified. A lot of people
in the Intel community spend a lot of time keeping secrets secret. And to
sort of inject that sense of confusion into people I don't think was, was
altogether responsible. As election day approached, McCullough says the threats
went further, singling him out and another senior government email
investigator. You were given a warning. It was told that we would be the first two
to be fired with her administration that that was definitely going to happen. Is
that how it's supposed to be? No, I was in this context a whistleblower. I was
explaining to Congress, I was doing exactly what they had expected me to do
and all of a sudden I was the enemy. More than 2,100 classified emails passed
through Clinton's personal server and to this day, no one is accountable. If you
had done this, what would have happened to you? I'd be sitting in Leavenworth right
now. Fox News asked a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, the office of a senior
Senate Democrat, as well as a former director of National Intelligence for
comment, but there was no immediate response. McCullough recently retired
after 26 years of government service. He told Fox News today that he is grateful
now to tell his story, Tucker. And that. Wow, so good job to Tucker Carlson and
Fox News because on its face when Hillary did was completely illegal. It was a
drop box. She knew a bunch of countries had penetrated it. She'd put
classified stuff in there they wanted. Then they would give money to her
foundation, billions of dollars, billions of dollars to sell the country out on
an mechanized organized crime level. And that's why Mueller's so desperate. It's
why there's no making a compromise with these people. They're going to remove
Trump. Mueller's going to make stuff up. They're going to threaten enough
witnesses till somebody makes something up. They're not going to stop because
their backs are against the wall. They have committed incredible crimes selling
this country out and along comes a president that actually wants to
empower the country and they don't know what to do. Along comes somebody that's
gotten instant results in the economy and in so many other areas and they're
panicking because they know soon if he's not gone and if he gets more of his
agenda through the public is going to realize that they've been hoodwinked
even those that were asleep and they are desperate right now to remove Trump
and to remove the Republican members of the Freedom Caucus that have gotten into
office so that they can again have federalized elections which they've put
on the books. All 50 attorney generals including Democrats have written
letters to Obama before he left and then to Congress and then to Trump saying
please change this Obama executive order federalizing the elections in the
future putting Homeland Security over the computers. We caught Hillary trying
to steal six states. She did steal five states and they want to come in, overturn
the election, overturn the other elections, federalize it under global
control and the Democrats will be a permanent party. That's why Obermann's
talking about how they're gonna overturn the whole election. That's why they've
got MSNBC hosts saying once we get rid of Trump we're gonna overturn these
elections and we're gonna arrest all the libertarian and conservative leaders.
We're gonna put them in prison camps. That was on MSNBC two days ago. They mean
business. We're facing a total committed criminal move. It's us or them, no holds
barred, no quarter, absolute war. Hey Daniel Bremen, why new manna storeable
foods? We believe in freedom. America needs strong independent families to
endure what's ahead and we take this charge seriously. We got options, organic,
no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value. New manna is a no-lose
investment for your family's food independence. Get your new manna today
call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775, online discounts available at
powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com. Want revenge on the common house fly? Well
after ten thousand years someone has finally come up with a better way. The
bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as
ammunition. Non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget you
have a wife and kids. $39.95 and free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN
and get an extra 10% off your purchase at bugassault.com. Makes the perfect
stocking stuffer. Get your bug assault today.
America is an information-based civil war. That's why now more than ever we've
got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not
backing down from their bullies. We're only intensifying our operations in the
face of their wannabe dictatorship. Being a conservative, a nationalist, a
libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism and
pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a
counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's class of the liberalism. They are the
anti-liberalists. To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote
freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality
t-shirts for men and women as well as more patriot apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally,
societally, economically, spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top
of giant time bomb. With populations and globalism and the
new world order's manipulation of people's minds, things are getting crazy.
We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet. We've also got to have
rearguard actions to be prepared. The number one thing after getting right with
God is to have high-quality, swindle food. While the entire line of my patriot
supply foods, private label as infowarselect, is now 50% off. I've only
done that one time before previously. 15% off. You cannot beat that. And we're
only doing that through Cyber Monday. So it starts today on Thanksgiving and
runs through next Monday. infowarstore.com. You can go right there. It's the full
spectrum of my patriot. It's private label by us. Totally fresh. Last 25 years,
50% off. 50% off. Take action today. After years of research working with top
developers here in the United States, with the latest cutting-edge science, we
are rolling out three new digestive gut aids. One of them is a powerful
pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other
proteins better. And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic
culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration. And we
also have an everyday, extremely affordable, fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and
digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price. That is my goal here,
is to bring you the very best at the lowest price. When you purchase it at
m4store.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist
and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin, Texas broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Coming up, ladies and gentlemen, at the bottom of the next hour, one hour from
now, we're going to expose shocking behavior by Disney Corporation targeting
infants for sexualization and targeting toddlers for gender confusion and trying
to train toddlers from the time they can first hear someone read to them how to
be rebellious and how to break things and how to be bad. We always knew that Dr.
Spock's books got pushed telling parents not to raise their children so the
state could raise them. We always knew that was part of the plan that later
came out, but man these people are just so seditious and they want to turn your
child into a desperate SJW that's all alone, that has the fact that they're
anti-social exploited. They want to make them anti-social, chip on their shoulder,
losers. And I'll be honest with you, the magnitude of the corruption is really
starting to get to me because the more I study it, the more I see it, and the more
they come out in the open, it's like, good Lord, no wonder they don't want to
coexist with us because they're just completely evil and I don't want to
coexist with them. They're not gonna let us coexist, they want to conquer us, they
want to conquer everyone. I mean, look at this article,
Girl Guiding UK allows transgender guides to share showers tense with girls, and
so it is adult men that identify as girls. When your girls are basically in
the girls' couch, the UK equivalent naked man who identifies as a woman takes a
shower with your daughters. Remember Como of CNN this year? It was pointed out
that they now went in the Girl Scouts of America to have adult men shower with
the girls that identify as women. And Como said, if your parents have taught you
that it's wrong of your 12-year-old girl to see a man's genitals in a shower,
that's bigoted and you ought to be ashamed of yourself. That's a tweet. And
when you pull back from this and you realize it, see now they can say, oh, I
identify as a child. Or maybe your child identifies as an adult so they can have
sex with an adult. That's where this all goes. There it is, CNN's Chris Como wants
tolerance of naked men in women's restrooms. Because a parent complained
and said, you know, naked men in the showers, and he said, I wonder if she's the
problem or overprotective and intolerant dad. Teach tolerance. So if at the local
pool, a man goes into the showers, the police are called, he gets arrested. If
he's in there, you know, on purpose. I think we've all been in a hurry or whatever
and walked into the wrong restroom. I've seen a woman do it on me. I've walked
into women's restrooms, I think a couple times, you know, you're at the movie,
you're running back, kind of just running, you go, oops, no urinals in here,
kind of pull back. But if you're going in there to the women's showers, taking
your clothes off, you know, trying to get in there, and you identify as a woman,
and then I'm hateful because I don't want my daughters to be freaked out by
that. I mean, my daughters don't walk in when I'm taking a shower. I don't walk in
when they're taking a shower. After they're like the age of what, three or
four? Hey, bathroom's private and you don't come in the bathroom when I'm in
here. Sometimes they'll pop their head in. Dad, can I go to my friend's house? I'm
like, this is one of my pet peeves. I'm like, even though they're not in the
shower, there's in the bathroom sticking their head in. I'm like, get out of the
bathroom. I've asked my wife, we got multiple bathrooms. If I'm in the bathroom,
go to another bathroom. Vice versa. The whole point is, it's about rubbing it in
your face where you have no privacy. It's what the police state's about. It's what
the surveillance is about. It's what the iPhone's watching you and the droids
watching you. All of it is about this. And if they can get away with putting men
in girls' bathrooms, the sky's the limit. And this is going to tie it into what's
coming up next hour. Girlguiding UK, this is Breitbart, allows transgender guides
to share showers, tents with girls. Male guides identify as female, will be allowed
to shower with girls during campaign trips. Girlguiding UK literature has
revealed. That's like the girl's couch over there. Official guidance
distribution by the organization, which applies to girl guides between the ages
of five and 25, tells guide leaders, that's adults, camp leaders, to let
transgender members share changing rooms, toilets, tents, and cabins with girls
while away on excursions. Yes. Really, I mean, in the girl's couch, you don't even
have the camp leader that's an adult sleeping with you. I mean, in the same
in the same area. The move came as a 107-year-old organization updated
advice regarding male guides who identify as female demographic. It was
revealed in January as now being admitted to the girl's only organization. And get
ready for this. Full grown men will shower with your daughters, and they're
going to do it, and you're going to take it. You notice from Australia to Germany
to the UK, it's a unified program. And the Russians have national TV shows
exposing this, showing government documents that we cover, where they're
meaning to break up the family. That's why they hate the Russians. The Russians
have said no. Not because they're perfect, they're just not completely turned
over to destroying the natural order of the universe. The new best practices
program adopted by primary schools will inject LBGT lifestyle into every part
of life. Members are entitled to use the facilities of the gender that they
self-identify as, adds the organization, which confirmed they asked the male on
Sunday. This includes showers, toilets, and changing rooms. Full grown men will now
shower with your five and six-year-old daughters. By the way, everybody knows
from Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts or Camp that you have camp showers for the
adults, men and women, but that's separate. And then you don't have the camp
counselors, female with female or male with male. You don't have adults
showering with your children. Camps don't do that because that would be seen as
leading towards pedophilia and letting predators have access. But they're gonna
get over that bridge, you see, by saying, oh, well, they're adults, but they
identify a man as a woman, or a woman as a man, and they're gonna take the shower
with your children, and they're gonna have access because they're a special
group. Hell, they might identify as a child that day. Earlier this year, Girl
Guiding Chief Executive Julie Bentley stated that the move to allow male
children to join as guides follows rules set in the Equality Act 2010, which
makes clear organizations proving single-gender services should treat
people according to their acquired gender. So they're gonna put boys in the
girls, and then they're gonna put adult men in there as the leaders. This is
crazy. This is how the pedophiles get into your life. This is how they take
over. Now I'm gonna come back with Keith Overman claiming he's quitting because
he's had victory over Trump, all part of the new hoax, and we've got so much more.
We've got McCron confronting a Islamic invader who she's bitching and
complaining. He says, what's your problem? It's not that he's a good guy. He
understands the world is awake to what's happening. He has to pose as a
patriot, or he's gonna get removed from office like Merkel is about to be. So the
worm is turning. We are winning. Overman and the globalists are losing.
Briefly, we have Cyber Monday. It was a big success. Thank you. That helps us
fund our operation and overcome some serious obstacles and attacks and
hopefully expand. A lot's happening here, but we are the tip of the spear. So we
have a duty to expand and become more effective against the new world order.
So thank you for buying high quality products at infowarstore.com or
infowarslife.com. And if you'd like to take advantage of the sales that I'm
extending for two more days, and then that's it. Cyber Monday will extend
until Wednesday night at midnight. And we have free shipping on a store wide and
then 50% off on all of our best sellers, including our latest already a best
seller, the real red pill. Find out what a game changer this baby is at infowars
life.com. Thank you all for your support. It's a real real victory over the
globalist. I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass
bottle, two months servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real
red pill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new
tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate because
it's beyond that. Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription. But they were
charging people a hundred, two hundred dollars for the formulae. And I came up
with our own formula working with scientists and developers non GMO made
right here in America 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the
preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to
have to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill. Now
available at infowarstore.com and your purchase fuzz the operation. America is
an information based civil war. That's why now more than ever, we've got to hit
the streets of America and let these globalist scum know we're not backing
down from their bully. We're only intensifying our operations in the face
of their wannabe dictatorship. Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian
are simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture. The real punk
rock is being a patriot who's pro America, pro capitalism and pro freedom who at
the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas
Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti liberal to defend free
speech, meet like minded friends and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more
than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as
more Patriot Feral at infowarstore.com. Be part of the second American
evolution at infowarstore.com. Support good oral health with our one of a
kind super blue fluoride free products. Info Wars Life brings you a
revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to
deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil
or try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super
blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health. Our amazing
mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since
aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing fluoride our super blue line
is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial
compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all
of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the
difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and
invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com.
With few remaining days left on the legislative calendar Congress sure has
a lot on the agenda including reauthorization of mass surveillance.
The current authorization for the controversial section 702 expires
December 31st and it's the first time Congress has faced reauthorization
since Edward Snowden revealed the NSA's mass surveillance apparatus. Civil
libertarians have urged Congress to take this reauthorization as an
opportunity to implement meaningful reforms to shield innocent Americans from
mass surveillance but with the clock running out Congress appears poised to
just jam through reauthorization. Meanwhile the Supreme Court has just took
up a blockbuster case, the privacy of emails, photos stored in the cloud, even
heart rate history from a smartwatch could be at stake. The case, Carpenter
vs. US, will determine whether the history of cell phone locations stored by a
phone service provider is searchable without a warrant. It's a legal theory
known as the third-party doctrine.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Welcome back folks. I'm Alex Jones your host that's Bing Crosby. I'm doing a
white Christmas which means snow. One of my daughters has only seen snow once and
she wants to go to Colorado somewhere this year for Christmas so that she can
see it but see that's racist. In fact BuzzFeed has even said milk is racist
because it's white. Soros has come out and said that if we don't keep Obama's
net neutrality that was really an internet takeover that we're racist.
That story's up on dredgerport.com and all over the country campuses have
agreed to ban dreaming of a white Christmas on grounds of racism so let's
hear some of this hate. Oh there you go ladies and gentlemen. It's President
Trump's new Christmas White House video of your radio listener. It shows the
first lady decorating the Christmas trees that have a snow and white light
motif. This will undoubtedly be called racist because it's white. Also Martian
because it's also green so it's a little bit of a wink to the Martians. If snow means
you're pro white people and white trees mean you're you know a code word for KKK
I guess garb then the green again is a worship of Martians. There you go. In fact
the main tree is mainly green. That is a surrender message to the Martians who are
reportedly green. Oh and they even have a nativity scene. Wow this just gets worse
and worse and Europe and San Francisco and other areas have banned
fireplaces that burn wood. They even showed an illegal fire. Oh and the White
House what color is it? It's white. Just one last racist affront and if you're a
radio listener I am narrating it. A lot of folks on YouTube and Facebook go why
does Jones talk over videos? Well if there's no words and it's only images
then for the radio audience I have to describe what the video is. We're mainly
a radio show. Terrestrial radio is our main audience. The globalists are trying
to censor us on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter. They're admittedly curtailing it
some but it's a Streisand effect. As they try to hold the beach ball under it
gets harder and harder. When it finally gets let loose from the deep end it
shoots out of the water high into the sky as long as you don't give in. As long
as you don't let them break your will. As long as you don't let them wear you
down. As long as you love the fight and have that spirit of victory. This is a
long-term 12-round boxing match or even better it's more like a wrestling match
and so we have the president coming out and saying we're gonna say Merry Christmas
again. People say oh there's no war on Christmas. While all over the country I
see articles where kids are told don't bring Christmas cards it's religious.
Well you can be a Muslim, a Christian, an atheist, a Wiccan, whatever your
religion is. You can talk to your friends in 5th grade or 10th grade or
12th grade about that. You can hand out Christmas cards during lunch. You just
can't do it in inappropriate times. You have that free speech but they're
trying to teach our students. We're gonna put naked men in the showers with you
at many public schools run by the Democrats and claim that they can come
shower with you or you're a bigot. Oh but if a man asks a woman out that's rape.
Again they're smoke screening, watering it all down, normal sexual activity as
they move forward to sexualize children, as they move forward to overturn all of
our conventions, all of our classical cultural systems. Everything traditional
is under attack because it's an organized takeover and they know it's an
organized takeover and they know that you're awake to it. They're like boa
constrictors or vines that wrap around your arms, your legs, and finally your
neck and then as soon as they've got you where they want you they start
squeezing the life out of you. They want you poor, they want you depressed, they
want you under their control and the WikiLeaks and all the other documents
from Facebook. Show it! But first the vines caress you and go just let me wrap
around your arm. I want to be warm and let me wrap around your leg. Don't pull
me loose. If you cut me loose you're being evil, you're being racist. Just use
the words I want you to use. Do what I say. You know let me run your society, pay
for my sex change. Let me have the affirmative action. Let me and it's
all these things supposedly for protected groups but those aren't protected
groups. Those are groups being manipulated in to the globalist system to
make them more domesticated, more controlled, more under bondage, more
under their system and it's not my opinion about this predatory system.
They've written books and white papers and articles and constant amounts of
leaks but now they're on the news saying rural areas are criminal and they
shouldn't be allowed to vote and we need to arrest all the Republicans and we
need to. They're showing you who they are. They're a bunch of losers, social
engineers who want to run people's lives and to think about just five years
ago they said white Christmas is racist and then now it's banned on most
colleges. They just do it. Bing Crosby, white Christmas. It's talking about
snow. They're not playing games ladies and gentlemen. They tell you oh your town
can't have a nativity scene. Then they infiltrate your church to the
seminary and take it over and get rid of the crosses. They're doing it all. They're
conquering the culture and they say they've got your kids and now they're
sexualizing them and now they're launching their final revolution.
Being able to literally not just brainwash and chemicalize and deadly
vaccine and GMO and fluoridate your children but now have sex with them and
confuse them and tell them be rebellious, be bad. Be a boy if you're a girl. Be a
girl if you're a boy. That's coming up this new Disney production. We're gonna
show you and they're just in there absolutely trying to turn you into a
desperate, alone, basket case who has no family. So as the world population
reduction rolls in, as the depopulation begins, you're a basket case jibbering
idiot mental patient and no one's there to stand up for you and no one's there
to be your friend and you're all alone and they can suck your soul and from
Australia to Canada to France to Germany to the UK they're taken down the
American flags. They're taken down the German flags off government buildings
saying they're hurtful and they're banning nativity scenes in people's
front yards saying now that's hurtful and you're like I don't want to be hurtful
let me give over my entire culture my entire life to you. You're not giving it
to the Muslims. You're not giving it to the minorities. They're just pawns. You're
giving it to the corporate globalist Borg that's taking over the world and we
even have their battle plans so shame on us if we don't do something about it.
Now I want to commend the listeners and the supporters of this broadcast because
you've been swimming upstream. Your will, your prayers, your support has been
defeating them across the board and so I want to invite all of you today to take
advantage of the giant sales 50% off on all our best-selling products and free
shipping I'm extending for two more days with Cyber Monday but listen I've got to
stop Brain Force Plus because we got a limited shipment it's going to be sold
out to the end of the year. I've got to stop the colloidal silver it's getting
low. I've got to stop a bunch of the other products like prostigards about to
sell out and living defense parasite cleanse and pro-peers even getting low
25% off and colloidal silver 67% off so check it all out today because some of
these will end before Wednesday because we're about to sell out. High quality
products you need and then fund an embattled winning organization under
globalist attack 110% committed when you financially support us it is a total
win-win you get real products that you need that are high quality and you
support the broadcast and it's non-stimulant Brain Force is a very
safe healthy wonderful system but it's got some stimulant in it the green tea
in the Aramonte to help supercharge it red pill the real red pill doesn't it's
got the preglonone that is the building block of all the hormones in your body
that most people are deficient in that you quit producing after age 20 you quit
producing up to 60% of it so it's got that supercharge with the amino acids
and everything but it's not like brain force you take it and feel feeling 30
minutes red pill you take for about a week and then you start to feel it
that's what people have reported it's amazing this preglonone in the type we
have with the amino acids and everything else is a total game changer so info
wars life comm to get your red pill the real red pill out of the gates 50% off
because I know you're gonna love it so much I want the great patriots that
always support us up front to get the best deal that's all gonna go again for
a few days info wars life comm let's go out with our politically incorrect
president daring to say Merry Christmas here it is
year you know we're getting near that beautiful Christmas season that people
don't talk about anymore they don't use the word Christmas because it's not
politically correct you go departments to us and they'll say happy new year and
they'll say other things and it'll be red they'll have it painted but they don't
say well guess what we're saying Merry Christmas again that's a big deal that's
a big deal men give your body the support it needs with info wars life
prostagard it's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate
balance info wars life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas
that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and
extracts that our experts recommend the prostagard formula does just that with
this mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body
total support it's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto lycopene plant
sterols zinc vitamin D3 selenium and copper prostagard is something that the
men on the info wars crew take every day and from our research it's something
that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their
body going at optimal levels now is the time to start naturally supporting your
body get prostagard on your side today exclusively at info wars life calm
that's info wars life calm
enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with emmerich's essentials we
are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based household products at
infowarstore.com including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen date free
herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash unscented body wash
tea tree shampoo and long-lasting natural deodorant emmerich's essentials is free
of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body we carefully select pure and
simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with
organic our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to
enhance your life truly feel the difference by going organic natural
without compromising on quality feel good about using emmerich's essentials
start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic
ingredients visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new emmerich's
essentials line of organic products that's infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show you are listening to an info wars calm
frontline report if you are receiving this transmission you are the
resistance from deep in the heart of FEMA region 6 Austin Texas transmitting
worldwide it's alex jones it's in all the wiki leaks it's in all the Facebook
documents it's it's all around you though you can see what they're doing they
create dependent dumb down people they make them rebellious they make them
hateful they then give them a vicious operating system to go out and attack
their fellow humans and then a society breaks down the globalist organize these
crises to consolidate control and imagine banning people handing out
Christmas cards at school churches removing the crosses telling people that
the words mother and father are hurtful allowing adults to shower with the girl
scouts over in the UK it's called girl guiding they're gonna guide them all
right this is the total and complete takeover and they mean business and
they're focused and it's all meant to sabotage families and break down the
family unit politically correct fascism Catholic
school forced to ban words mother and father print that for me please this is
happening all over the world and it's run by the Tavistock Institute of MI 6
in London England whose admitted plan is to end the family as we know it the
families being hunted our normal biological activity is being destroyed
this isn't tolerance this is a political genetic corporate religious
overwrite of our mammal activity they want to target fire ants that arrived
here from Brazil in the late 1940s an invasive species they target them with
hormones praise other things that turn off their sexual functions you want to
target other insects is what they do we're being targeted like insects by the
globalist through the food through the water and they admit in books like
ecoscience written by the former White House science Tsar John P. Holdren to be
carrying this out so it isn't our opinion coming up at the bottom of the
hour I'm gonna break shocking information that is hidden in plain view
I'm not gonna I'm not gonna not gonna get to it at this point ladies and
gentlemen but I've got it right here in my hand and it just shows you and this
is just the beginning this is just the opening salvo in all of this and it's
only going to get more intense until we wake up and until we say no now coming
up when we start the next segment I'm gonna play what I call the police state
intro we've had it for about four years and it deals with how the globalists
are bringing in this control grid and how we're in a battle for our country and
I want to play it because we haven't played it in a while because it illustrates
exactly what we're facing as a culture and as a civilization but this is
scientific it's absolutely focused it knows full well what it's doing and
there's no debating what I'm saying that this is an admitted plan this is an
admitted operation this is social engineering to screw you up to suck you
dry to make you alone and finally kill you you won't even have a grave you'll
just be burned and your ashes shot into the atmosphere or you'll be reclamated
and used for fertilizer that's the globalist plan and first they got to
teach you to hate yourself they got to make life as ugly as possible they got
to make things as hard as possible they've got to dumb you down as much as
they can and it's all been declassified the ugly art the CIA everything I haven't
gotten to it yet but after we hear this intro we're going to get into Keith
Oberman and then this whole new hype that Trump's about to fall the whole
Russian narrative is true this is another big giant hoax they're pushing in an
attempt to steal reality from us yet again but it's destined to fail if we
take action please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three
things that will save you a lot of money while you get high-quality products
and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you choose auto ship before
checkout we give you 10% off on your order at info store.com number two
you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto
ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're
giving you free shipping on all orders above $50
listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to
reorder the products that you need each month just go to info wars store.com
select your favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how
often you want us to send you another order as you know I coined the term
360 win and with the new auto ship feature at info wars life.com this is
a sure win 10% off on auto ship win win win at info wars life.com free shipping
on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out of stock when
you sign up for auto ship
in the councils of government we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or unsought by the military industrial
complex
it's a military mission in north st. Louis heavily armored vehicles are
rolling into town and don't be alarmed if you see those over the next seven days
rolling through your neighborhood if you see military helicopters flying low
over Minneapolis do not be alarmed guns will be taken no one will be able to be
gone we'll take all weapons mr. and mrs. America turn them all in just really
brainwash people into thinking about guns in a vastly different way enough
enough enough enough the Department of Homeland Security is apparently on a
huge ammo buying spree it comes out to like 1.6 billion rounds of ammunition
and as case late news 12 Jeff Farrell discovered that clergy would help the
government with potentially their biggest problem us so part of it is we
have to break through our kind of private idea that kids belong to their
parents or kids belong to their families and recognize the kids belong to whole
communities if you got a business that you didn't build that somebody else may
that happen mercury containing vaccines may help not harm kids according to two
new studies in the journal pediatrics black Hawk choppers soaring to the night
sky but this is only a drill heavily armed officers in Watertown search for
suspect house it's a joint military training exercise involving local police
also military I am inside I have two words for you
the dramatic scene played out in front of our cameras parents grabbing their
children and running after spending the night hunkering in their houses and
then finding themselves face-to-face with the muzzle of a SWAT officers rifle
they let them in the area they told them they could come in and now they're
coming in like their trespassers punching and shoving people
we're not running and we're not backing down if you want to come and take it
we are on the March the Empire is on the run live from the info wars.com
studios it's Alex Jones
the potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist
ladies and gentlemen we're now well into the second hour today Paul Watson's
gonna be joining me coming up in the fourth hour continue on with Owen
Shroyer in the war room three hours after that this is a radio show TV program
syndicated across the country free to air to radio and TV stations across the
country info wars.com forward slash show for any of you that can't find a local
affiliate but it's critical to support our local stations as well it is it is
such an amazing treasure the different UHF and VHF cable systems FM stations
and AM stations that pick up the broadcast we really are changing the
world together but we are under attack now I want to give this Keith Oberman
piece because it's all part of the latest PR rollout by every major establishment
publication out there here's the New York Times odds are Russia owns Trump
wow odds are it was the New York Times did have Hillary at 98% chance of
winning but then election week they dropped it down to 97 so odds are the
New York Times is owned by a very corrupt Mexican kingpin who made
billions of dollars off of the Obama phone program that he got the money
from well that's not odds are that's a fact odds are the New York Times has been
caught wind of people so much that it's one of the top fiction publications in
the world odds are the facts are we now have a senior whistleblower that's gone
public Charles McCullough the former internal watchdog for the US internal
intelligence community investigated the Clintons top secret emails and when he
went to clapper a year before the presidential election he was told we'll
go after you will go after your family and when Hillary's elected you're gonna
be fired and it was about hurry legal server and the foreign powers and all
of it and of course we know uranium one that was an order by Mueller to kill
that investigation now those emails were posted last week on the FBI's website
with no fanfare with Mueller ordering everyone not to investigate it to stop
investigating it and that he would personally take control of it and he
did and then he killed it this is a guy on the tarmac giving the Russians weapons
great uranium he's like a James Bond villain of course he's saying Trump's
the Russian agent it's a classic bill where you catch the agent they go no he's
the agent or she's the agent this is ridiculous they're the globalist they're
the ones about selling the country out they're the ones that have the history
of feeding on the country this is the guy that protected the Clintons for
heaven's sakes he's a monster so now Fox News blowback Clinton campaign planned
to fire me over email probe Obama Intel watchdog says who was nonpartisan they
even threatened his family
he came to the inspector general with the information it goes on and on and
this is the latest of whistleblowers coming out and informants and FBI agents
and that's why they're panicking because they know the people like mr. Bongino of
the Secret Service are about to expose the pedophilia of the Clintons and love
the Lolita Express and all the rest of it that's why they're in crisis so in
comes Keith Oberman to say he's approaching 400 million views I went
and looked at the YouTube his average video is 200,000 views he's done 140
something of them you do the math of that it's nowhere near that and then he
says he's he's quitting because Trump is about to go to jail nothing can stop it
and that's the same thing they're all pushing today is it's over Mueller's
gonna get him Mueller will stop those pesky voters Mueller Mueller he's our
man if he can't overthrow the election nobody can and the left's just
salivating for authoritarianism watch what you ask for because if you go down
that road historically all of you desperate alone want to be establishment
types are gonna find out that it kicks as hard as it shoots but here's
Oberman saying Trump broke him he's giving up nobody's watching him he's a
total caricature he calls himself the resistance gee where'd you get that
plagiarist here it is I'm Keith Oberman and this is the resistance I am
confident now even more so than I have been throughout the last year that this
nightmare presidency of Donald John Trump will end prematurely and end soon
and I am thus also confident that this is the correct moment to end this series
of commentaries but frankly I have not enjoyed one minute of it as I'm certain
it has also been for you for me it has been unadulterated pain and revulsion and
horror the process has become nearly 24-7 and I've said so much that I can and
have recycled old commentaries from months ago and they have been fully
applicable to breaking news we've come full circle to such a complete degree
that on Sunday Trump tweeted a complaint about quote Russia Russia Russia the
title of the 46th episode of the resistance from last March 14th was
quote Russia Russia Russia I've made my point so now that I think the outcomes
the seven different inevitable outcomes are unavoidable I'd like to go back and
enjoy some of my life again and I'm going to no illness no scandal no firing
just I said what I've had to say it was as obvious as I made it seem I give my
work everything I can so it's not like I can dial it back and I think even this
dim-witted world of American political TV reporting which is still calculating
how to get Trump's idiot supporters to watch their networks and still waiting
for Trump to pivot even it can carry this the rest of the way so I am
retiring from political commentary in all media venues this is not to say a
bed of roses and reconciliation awaits us the post Trump America will be
relieved of his prodigious evil but in its place it will have Trump as living
martyr that prodigious evil and rank hypocrisy I'd say down this person the
only thing he said that was true there is that if you if they were to take out
Trump geopolitically that's even better for us you'll never stop us then ID
stronghold wallets are different they may look the same on the outside they're
stylish they'll hold your cards and cash but they're hiding something great on
the inside no there are no pyrotechnics and it doesn't sing when you open but
it does have magical powers ID stronghold wallets protect your critical
information that identity from each standing right next to you protect your
family this holiday season with affordable leather ID stronghold wallets
and verses anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your
information just by walking past you contactless credit cards debit cards
even your work ID bag ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking
technology over 12 years ago secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon
code present for a limited time at ID stronghold.com that's coupon code
present also available at Walmart.com eBay Amazon or QVC ID stronghold.com
water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure
it's the best for you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on
Berkey purified water the Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration
systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency
get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 goberkey.com most people
think life insurance pays after you're dead that's true but did you know you
can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still alive you
can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with
certainty and guarantees no stock market risk no tax risk and no penalties call
life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done call 702-660-7000
that's 702-660-7000 with few remaining days left on the legislative calendar
Congress sure has a lot on the agenda including reauthorization of mass
surveillance the current authorization for the controversial section 702 expires
December 31st and it's the first time Congress has faced reauthorization since
Edward Snowden revealed the NSA's mass surveillance apparatus civil
libertarians have urged Congress to take this reauthorization as an
opportunity to implement meaningful reforms to shield innocent Americans
from mass surveillance but with the clock running out Congress appears poised
to just jam through reauthorization meanwhile the Supreme Court has just
took up a blockbuster case the privacy of emails photos stored in the cloud even
heart rate history from a smartwatch could be at stake the case carpenter
versus us will determine whether the history of cell phone locations stored
by a phone service provider is searchable without a warrant it's a legal
theory known as the third-party doctrine Leanne McAdoo info wars.com I'm so
excited the new product info wars life.com in a glass bottle two month
servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red pill this
is a heart and brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have any stimulants in it
but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly I just went
off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients but it
wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred two hundred
dollars for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae working with
scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in America 120 capsules and
ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it which is the precursor
to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your
glands it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store.com and
your purchase fuzz the operation
you're listening to the alex jones show
big brother mainstream media government cover-ups you want answers well so
does he live from Austin Texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex
jones live broadcasting worldwide now I don't always cover whatever the big
national story is but when it's informative when it's educational and
it shows how they manipulate when it shows how they control that I do get
into it and the last day it's really blown up when President Trump had some
of the amazing Navajo code breakers amazing as they're still alive since
World War two and their code really is a one-of-a-kind and their patriots and
you just neat folks he makes the joke about hey you've been here a lot longer
than the rest of us except maybe Pocahontas making a joke at Warren who
Native American groups have gone in research she lied she's not Cherokee
she's not Comanche she's not any of those groups and she just lied to be
politically correct kind of like this were race reassignment we've seen where
white women claim they're really black women and start putting blackface on it's
it's beyond cultural appropriation it is identity theft so Trump's making a joke
with these old guys these guys were in World War two don't think they didn't
hear a joke don't think they don't get a joke don't think old men don't like
jokes like that Trump's 70 years old these guys are like 20 years older than
them and Pocahontas is a joke ladies and gentlemen
Elizabeth Warren's a lying dirtbag and so even Bill Maher knows where all this
is going and made fun of her last night as well to sit there and call it a
racial slur now to take any word you don't like or any argument somebody has
a nickname about how she lied about being Native American he put that nickname
on her because it fits crooked Hillary's crooked slimy Bill's slimy we
created the whole deal Bill Clinton's a rapist you popularize it as an audience
that's what he's known as because he is nicknames don't stick unless they fit
I've got 99 percentile size head the crew calls me pumpkin head behind my back
it's my own nickname I don't mind it I have a pumpkin head I am pumpkin head
she is Pocahontas Trump is the orange one he jokes about that behind the scenes
Bill Clinton's the rapist Hillary is crooked so let's first go to what Trump
actually said Trump makes remarks regarding Pocahontas here it is I want
to thank you because you're very very special people you were here long
before any of us were here although we have a representative in Congress who
they say was here a long time ago we call her Pocahontas but you know what I like
you because you are special you are special people you are really incredible
people and from the heart from the absolute heart we appreciate what you've
done how you've done it the bravery that you displayed and the love that you have
for your country Tom I would say that's as good as it gets look at these guys
they just love it these are real men they've been around 90 years there's a
guy honoring them they're honoring him they get it's a joke they start smiling
even bigger he's like we got the real McCoy here folks you got this fraud over
here by the way I've sent my genetics off I've never done it it's not like I
just say I'm Native American and then I mean I know it's gonna come back because
I know because my dad's dad looked like these guys he was just six foot four and
had blue eyes Jerry Jones and of course they brought him up teaching him we're
Indians from from Florida we don't say what we are because even in the 20s and
stuff when our family that side of the family came back from Florida they were
sent there even when they came back back then you weren't supposed to say you
were a Comanche and it wasn't just one trail of tears it was a bunch of them but
yeah I mean I'm actually related folks the trail of tears but I don't make that
like I'm something special or some big deal the Native Americans were
incredibly barbarous murdering you name it depending on the tribe and the
Comanches were about as bad as it got but you know the whole point is I'm
actually proud of that but it's just it's sick but I know when my genetics
come back I'm publishing them sent them off about two weeks ago and I paid for
the big one the big detail one where they're gonna be able to tell which which
Native tribes because I already know but it'll be fun to publish that I'm no
Pocahontas so get ready for that now let's continue I mean my dad's even got
the handsome Native American nose I didn't get it I look just like my mom's dad
but let's let's put those code breakers back up there one more time
because the Navajo are little guys on average you know the the Comanches were
the lords of the plane they were the particularly warlike folks only people
bigger were Caronco was because they were cannibals but that's a whole
another Texas tribe right now I don't know I'm related to them yet but we'll
find out let's go ahead and go to the next clip here
Elizabeth Warren accuses Trump of using a racial slur well as a Native American I
can tell you what's not here it is was supposed to be an event to honor heroes
people who put it all on the line for our country and people who because of
their incredible work save the lives of countless Americans and our allies it is
deeply unfortunate that the president of the United States cannot even make it
through a ceremony honoring these heroes without having to throw out a racial
slur Donald Trump does this over and over that's all they do is turn
everything into racial slur no you are known as Pocahontas because you're not
a Native American and you are a liar and the tribes I've got a bunch of their
clips have rejected you you lied about being a Cherokee by the way everybody
Oklahoma's a Cherokee because that was seen as the friendly tribe people don't
even know why everybody's a Cherokee most of folks weren't Cherokee they were
blackfoot or they were always other grips that were being hunted down and
killed because they were known for not giving up the Cherokee worked with
everybody not saying they're bad folks they're great folks okay let's go ahead
and go to this next clip this is a Bill Maher this is pretty fun oh no no Sarah
Huckabee Sanders first responding here it is the event that the president just
did with the Navajo Code Talkers he referred to Pocahontas being in the
Senate why did he feel the need to say something I've grown up in Texas and
Oklahoma and I know people that are part Native American because they're all over
the place most people are I bet you money if you test Sarah Huckabee Sanders
blood I bet she's Native American because I know what people look like they
are I bet you she is here let's go back to it people while honoring the Navajo
Code Talkers he's genuine American I think what most people find offensive is
Senator Warren lying about her heritage to advance her career
she said it was a racial slur she said it was a racial slur what is your
response to that I think that's a ridiculous response
because the president was speaking at an event to honor members of the
greatest generation people who fought in World War two who are in their 80s and
90s now and the moment had many people online asking whether the president
lacks decency what's your response to that note look I think the president
certainly finds an extreme amount of value and respect for these individuals
which is why he brought them and invited them to come to the White House and
spent time with them recognizing them exactly they try to turn everything bad
he's saying these are real Native Americans set and Senator Warren is a
fake we've got the big news coming up on the other side ladies and gentlemen it
is huge a Disney is super elegant super they got way those folks they got eggs
they got big eggs I'll give it to them
we are on the March the Empire is on the run you're listening to the Alex
Jones show the answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom
from insurance become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to
share in each other's medical expenses individual share amounts begin at $107
a month and 347 for families choose from three health sharing programs holistic
treatments may be eligible for sharing see guidelines discount programs
available for dental vision and pharmacy go to liberty on call dot org that's
liberty on call dot org a commemorative president Trump dollars for only $5
yes the historic Trump dollars starts at only $5 at Trump dollar dot US choose
from our unique three-coin collection in gold silver and copper the vote Trump
dollar inaugural Trump dollar and make America great again Trump dollar
available only at Trump dollar dot US minted in the USA our Trump dollars
commemorate President Trump's patriotic stand order your Trump dollar
collection today in time for Christmas delivery at Trump dollar dot US that's
Trump dollar dot US the term fake news has become so synonymous with CNN the
news network wants to ban it CNN is now pushing an effort to ban the term fake
news an opinion piece argues that the term has become meaningless and lost its
power because politicians have hijacked it as a way to undermine the media
establishment the authors to cry the fact that a majority of people now
believe the mainstream media pedals fabricated stories of course the real
reason media elites want to clamp down on the term fake news is because its
original intention to smear and discredit any dissenting opinions has
completely backfired this was illustrated yet again by President Trump's
latest triggering tweet when he suggested that a fake news trophy should be
awarded to the network that has been responsible for the most inaccurate
reporting the fake news narrative is actually acted as a boomerang showing
the mainstream media to be the most consistently dishonest entity of all
leon macadoo info wars dot com America is an information-based civil war that's
why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of America and let these
globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bully we're only
intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship being
conservative a nationalist a libertarian are simply a free speech
advocate is truly the counterculture the real punk rock is being a patriot
who's pro-america pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is
tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's
classical liberalism they are the anti-liberal to defend free speech meet
like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide we've got more than 60
original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more
patriot feral info or store dot com be part of the second american revolution
that info or store dot com I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact
that culturally societally economically spiritually militarily the planet's
sitting on top of giant time bomb with populations and globalism and the new
world order manipulation of people's minds things are getting crazy we're
trying to fix the country and fix the planet we've also got to have rear guard
actions to be prepared the number one thing after getting right with God is
that high-quality storeable food well the entire line of my patriot supply
foods private labeled as info or select is now 50% off I've only done that one
time before previously 15% off you cannot beat that and we're only doing that
through cyber monday so it starts today on Thanksgiving and runs through next
monday info or store dot com you go right there it's the full spectrum my
patriot is private level by us totally fresh last 25 years 50% off 50% off take
action today
you're listening to the alex jones show
why do you think the globalists are trying to ban Christmas music and
shopping malls and the band handing out Christmas cards at most public schools
and for banning nativity scenes even in people's front yards now why are they
doing all this because they want to overthrow everything that's beautiful
everything that's good they want to teach you to accept less they want to tell
Africans you can't have cars or air conditioning but it's okay because
Obama told them they want you to be poor they're selling you a culture that
exploits your weaknesses and tries to make you completely alone and that's
what they're doing ladies and gentlemen and I'm not just demonizing the
globalist they deserve it they have fully decided to embrace the role of
practicing the dark and twisted arts of dehumanization dreaming of a white
Christmas in yuletide classics colorblind racism says salon ban it
well don't worry colleges across the country have banned being Crosby's I'm
dreaming of a white Christmas they know what they're doing they have a mission
completely conquering society and culture
without further ado let me get to the big news story because this is a two
pronged issue we're dealing with when I'm made aware of something like this
and then I do the research into it it's so upsetting it's like being run over by
car and then there's the anger I have of not being able to properly summon the
mental capacity to explain to you how evil and twisted and wrong this is
and then you realize they're bragging it's all by design and then you realize
that we are surrounded by people that have turned themselves over to a spirit
of evil a program they didn't innately come up with this they have fallen to it
then you realize you're not watching Netflix and some show like stranger
things where it's based in fantasy land we're living in a real interdimensional
war that the establishment knows about they're reaching out to it they want
power from it and it's telling them you're gonna get power but you've got to
go around and absolutely destroy civilization in society and then I'll
put you in charge as little gatekeepers over the misery but in the end you'll
be destroyed as well and they're so possessed by the spirit they howl and
say yes destroy me too I love it they're just turned over to evil in fact I
can't even cover this yet and I'm not doing this as a cliffhanger with the
audience everybody knows I get right to the news right to the big stories right
up front I can't ever even say coming up I'm gonna get to this because I just
want to start getting to it right away but I I don't even know how to describe
what I'm about to cover because it's overt it's disgusting it's wicked it's
twisted it's sickening but you can see how they doled it up to look non-threatening
like a big juicy worm on the end of a hook for a fish and then it just makes
me so sad for the operatives that are involved in this to imagine what they're
like jacked into that spirit and to imagine what it's like to be turned over
to this I just don't know what to say at this point I mean here's the problem
everything's supposed to be about brevity nowadays but I didn't know all
this when I started out 25 years ago and now exponentially I learn more every
month that I'm learning the previous year it's exponential I know it's
happening to you as well and I'm just like I just want to get out of here man
I don't even want to fight these people because you spiritually see what they
are you see what they are and you see how spiritually they're all tangled up in
the vines and the snakes and they're being fed on and there's snakes coming
out of their eyes their ears their guts they are just tortured souls and then
and it's not you're not even keeping score you're not even as a dominant man
beating the zombie hordes you're just up against some ancient evil some
intergalactic spirit some force that is absolutely hell-bent on destroying you
it's a feeling it's a will it's a consciousness of death and ugliness and
wanting to hurt everything good I'm just like how is anyone following this how
is anyone with this but they don't know they've been tricked into serving evil
believing that's giving them power and I think about how romantic it is we're on
a planet in deep space with the stars and the meteors and the moon and the sun
and our children and our husbands and our wives and our parents and our
lineage and the oceans and the trees and the birds and the smells and just it's
all amazing driving around these cities with big buildings and structures and
it's all just consciousness is so amazing and they tell us there is no
consciousness you're just an animal nothing exists they want you to give
yourself over and decide that's the case and not jack into the wonderment not
jack into the Renaissance not jack into the romance of how good God is and how
good creation is and how good God is to give us men and women together and in
this beautiful thing producing these amazing children that are part of our
physical love combining together and how pure it is and to see the system
perched like black widow spiders ready to poison kids from day one and just
absolutely doing everything they can to make the excruciating pain as long and
most horrible as possible and to see giant psychically blind armies of
people marching forward on their bellies begging to be possessed by the spirit
of the world so that they might have some future and some power
they were showing me some breaking those let's put it back on screen please
North Korea fires ballistic missile another one that we know where they
fired at top three of saying this Trump says if they fire one at Guam he's gonna
attack them North Korea fired under the fabulously missile from south of their
capital we'll find out what happens with that as it unfolds just briefly I need
physical capital to hire people and run this operation and move forward against
all the things they've done to us because of you and our interface even they
took our sponsors took our ads online banned us almost everywhere still we
dominate the news still the talking points get out still the truth is having
effect and as everything we talked about comes true our credibility rises
panicking the global to stay by day so I want to thank you all for your support
from me to you directly that isn't words I am brought to tears by how good you
are and how wholesome you are and the fact that we can win together we've got
great supplements great water filters great air filters great all the best
products that are out there that are good for people that create life that
create justice to create passion that make things better that's what we promote
and we've got the new product the real red pill is pregnant alone the
precursor to all your hormones that is so deficient in our bodies after age 20
with all the amino acids and vitamins and minerals together but this isn't like
an energy pill that hits you in one day it takes about a week and then it goes
great with brain force that's 50% off at info wars store.com or info wars
live.com and we've got a bunch of other big specials that are about to end we're
extending Cyber Monday specials are two more days free shipping storewide huge
specials across the board and all the best-selling items but it's got an end
very soon a lot of these are selling out but this brain force plus or the new
item that just came in the real red pill check them out today and thank you for
thumbing your nose the globalist you really are the reason we're here so I
salute you I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest
spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve
overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body biome defense
is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23
different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and
intestinal function our researchers are confident that we have been able to
develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market secure your biome
defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info wars life calm today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've been
testing this formula for years but this is the limited first run to the public
so please take advantage of it today support your own health and support the
info war choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and
bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and
health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source
of 100% organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an
essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals
this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and
overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to
support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with
this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium
at info wars life.com I'm so excited the new product info wars life.com in a
glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top
the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have
any stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite
frankly I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their
patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred
two hundred dollars for the formulae and I came up with our own formula working
with scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in America 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglinone to it which is the precursor
to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your
glands it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store.com and
your purchase fuzz the operation
refresh your breath with Emerson Central's organic mouthwash our formula is
made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a
cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste Emerson Central's
mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol chemicals or other
artificial ingredients such as flavors fragrances or dyes the pure organic
plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that
work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath. This antiseptic mouthwash
is a concentrated formula you will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10
parts water Emerson Central's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily breath in routine
it is effective yet gentle enough to the most sensitive gums and canker sores go
organic today with Emerson Central's visit info wars store.com to learn more
that's info wars store.com
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
we now take you live to the central Texas command center in the heart of the
resistance it's Alex Jones all right let's get right into it right now this
story makes me truly sick to watch Hollywood Disney this entire combine
feed on our children sexualize our children it's just disgusting I remember
six or seven years ago Viacom controlling Nickelodeon and and and other
children's channels said we're going to start targeting pre-teens with
sexualized messages they were telling shareholders they were gonna do this
well that's nothing now here's the new book that Millie Weaver when she was
there shopping with her son last week found at Target I was at Target
personally myself to check this out yesterday and there it was on the shelf
feminist baby now when you open the book up it has the baby like it's a pin-up
with its naked butt sticking out like it's a pin-up girl and a pin-up girl
post so it begins by sexualizing a newborn baby then it tells the toddlers
that are being read the story it's main target you make messes you throw things
you don't do what you're told you like pink you like blue you play with race
cars you play with dolls you're gonna be whatever sex you want it sexualizes
children and it's written by a buzzfeed writer and cartoonist now ladies and
gentlemen we've just seen YouTube with the whole sexualization of children and
them allowing them to prey on people and the search terms how to have sex with
your child or how to have sex with children being the top search functions
Millie Weaver has shot a report on this but it's got the baby sticking its butt
out naked
feminist baby says no to pants so it's to make children rebellious mental
patients left to think this is important to do like Dr. Spock said create all the
social problems we see today but this is a recipe on how to ruin your child
before I go to the other report here is just some daily beast articles from the
leftist themselves admitting this the pedophile director embraced by Hollywood
hired after he was convicted of raping a 12-year-old boy by Harvey Weinstein to
direct other films with children so the big final goal is corrupting your
children getting them while they're young controlling the culture just like
Hitler did by getting the youth just like MSNBC has said your children belong
to the state not to you we're gonna brainwash them you don't teach them
anything that's abuse if you tell your kids anything that you're a boy you're a
girl or there's a God or any of that you don't teach them that or it's abuse
already in Europe in the UK they take your kids for that but we're gonna teach
them what's happening in the UK with their girl scouts called girl guiding
UK allows transgender guides to share showers tents with girls including full
grown men to take naked showers with your daughters as young as age five as
long as they identify as a woman meanwhile politically correct fascism
Catholic school forced to ban words mother and father because that hurt
somebody that may not have mother and father and then here's the very writer
with Buzzfeed if you can call it that Lauren Brantz has whole cartoons about
not having a gender and how you don't know what you're having is it a boy or
girl let the state decide and let its programming decide not you so this is
the final assault to depopulate the planet it's in all the UN documents it's
in John P. Holder in the former White House science ours own book
ecoscience how they would confuse gender use chemicals and food and water to do
this they've now done it they demonize me all day for covering it even though
it's admitted without further ado here is the report with Millie Weaver the full
report just gone live on info wars.com Disney caught in shocking sexualization
of babies they've now made babies new sex items this is truly the next level of
depravity from Disney. I was out and about the other day I went to Target to
find some children's books for my two-year-old when I happened to come
across this book feminist baby that's right you heard me they're already
indoctrinating children with feminism just to make sure that this was not just
a gag present I went to Disney books.com which is listed on the back of the book
and sure enough Disney has it listed for zero to two-year-olds well first of all
how does a child ages zero to two even grasp the concept of feminism well who
better than to explain it to them than rainbow snatch. Good morning little Vays
Z's rainbows and purple penguins today we're gonna have storytime with drag
queens and I'm rainbow snatch I identify as a trans multi-dimensional non-binary
being so please refer to me as my proper pronoun as they so today we're gonna be
reading a very very special book written by a powerful woman author who's very
smart her name is Lauren Brands feminist baby by Lauren Brands published by
Disney Hyperion feminist baby loves to dance feminist baby says no to pants
this is promoting pedophilia with children selling them to take off their
clothes and then a picture of a naked baby looking all empowered and proud it's
no wonder that Disney published this book however from a perspective of a
parent this disturbs me because you're promoting children taking their clothes
off peeing and pooping everywhere give me a break feminist baby likes pink and
blue likes pink or blue so they're obviously promoting the whole you can
choose whatever gender you want to be
feminist baby chooses what to wear it's her choice her body to choose what she
wears one of the things I don't like about this already is it's telling the
children that they have a choice over their parents choice mom says put this
on you're going to church no I'm not I'm wearing a ninja turtle costume sorry
I'm a feminist baby with a new makeup challenge full face using only kids
makeup I'm like girl Jesus take the wheel I am a boy that loves to wear makeup
and if you don't like it she doesn't care
feminist baby makes lots of noise feminist baby throws her toys
well it looks like feminist baby is gonna be spending an awful lot of time in
timeout with that attitude feminist baby plays with dolls and cars this is
promoting the whole gender role thing where you've seen these all right let's
stop right there what's what's big about this is we're gonna come back with the
rest of video we're just now posting it to info wars.com and news wars.com
unedited so you can see the whole report and share it is this is Disney and this
is the same Disney that again hired convicted child rapists to run movies to
direct films with children and this is what they're doing is promoting the
sexualization of children with a quote feminist baby showing a naked baby
sticking its butt out like it's a woman posing in a swimsuit and then it just
goes on from there getting worse and worse and worse and worse and salons
promoting pedophilia and then and the New York Times is saying it's not a big
deal they want your child to decide when they want a vaccine California passed the
law forget the parents or your child decides in age nine when to have an
abortion the state is taking your children away this is the plan when we
come back we will play the rest of feminist baby which is Disney politicizing
sexualizing children where you can't even buy a children's book without it
saying be rebellious make messes you can be a boy or girl do whatever you want
don't do what your parents say this is the type of deviance these people are
involved in we'll come back after the break and play the rest of this be
straight ahead infowars.com please spread the link stay with us
proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum
levels up optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the
recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day up optimum levels B vitamins
we need every day secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for
optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient in B vitamins
can cause fatigue depression poor memory and lethargy secret 12 optimal
absorption B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting
your intercellular processes B vitamins are also essential for the optimal
functioning of the brain and nervous system up optimum levels secret 12 is
an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake head to infowarslife.com
support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's infowarslife.com
vitamin mineral fusion visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemistry
we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the
most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available
vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full
month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body
absolutely needs in the history of infowars life we've brought out a lot
of amazing products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many
others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximize effects this formula is the platinum standard of
multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients
in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality
lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secured you're
finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's infowarslife.com and
vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out
you're listening to the alex jones show
and now disney's targeting of your children at age zero
and actually something that isn't supposed to happen but it does happen
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones
this is promoting the whole gender role thing where you see these hippie LGBTQ
parents where they're having their little boys wear dresses and play with
Barbie dolls but also cars and the girls and you can't even tell who's what
what's what but the odd thing is it seems like they're always kind of pushing
the little boys into the Barbies and stuff a little bit more than the then
they're pushing the girls into you know Xbox or Ninja Turtles
and when she seems she's a baby rock star I am a nasty woman
feminist baby is as smart as she seems have you seen how smart some of these
feminists seem in real life I am the feminist who is out to ruin your life
I am the feminist who is pushing your daughter down the slippery slope of
sloth hood this is the whole going against the grain going against tradition
going against your parents teaching children to be naughty feminist baby
can be whatever she dreams yes that's right little purple penguins unicorns
little days and Z's you can be whatever it is you dream and if they don't like
it well then anyone who doesn't call you by your proper pronoun you make sure to
notify us so we can round them up and put them in prison camps you will address
me by whatever my proper pronoun is for the day that I decided to be or you will
face the consequences
you know it's one thing for some just random eyeball feminist named Lauren
Brantz to write this book and think that it's even gonna make any sense to two
year olds but it's another thing that be having it being published and
distributed by Disney but is it any wonder when you've seen this whole
pedophile complete corrupt culture in Hollywood and in big corporations like
Disney we've seen the Weinstein scandal we've seen all of these scandals
Corey Feldman coming out talking about pedophilia in the movie industry so when
you see things like you know promoting little children to take off their pants
it's no surprise when you find out that it's Disney and of course their first
word is not papa it smashed the patriarchy that the big mega corporations
that run slave factories in China came up with how do we make the public
become enslaved well just sabotage their family they'll be so pathetic they'll
never stop us sir good and then even Sean Parker comes out and tells you it's
the plan and you don't care because you're Lauren Brantz and you're paid for to
do this and she's got her little sickening event because most people that
read Buzzfeed obviously don't have children that's admitted so you go
there she has a weekly cartoon putting down family putting down sexes putting
down men and women I mean talk about a cult like space aliens arrived and said
there are no women there are no children stop having children your baby
doesn't want to come out because Trump is here and it goes on and on and on the
dad says his baby's beautiful but see that's a microaggression she does cough
cough cough I'm smart and capable to yeah absolutely daddy you don't say I'm
beautiful that was hateful of daddy that's half me that they've liked to me
it's just teaching her kids to be total basket cases freaking out over what
words people use because they're about to get useless college educations this
is the rearguard action of the folks that sold them worthless educations to
turn them into jibbering basket cases so they never figure out who screwed them
over so there you go feminist baby sexualizing children targeting
children like true predators and on store shelves at Target we gotta stop
shopping with all these people after years of research working with top
developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids one of them is a powerful
pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat other
proteins better and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic
culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration and we
also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance
but all of these are the very cutting-edge top-of-the-line probiotics and
digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price that is my goal here
is to bring you the very best at the lowest price when you purchase it an
m4store.com you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist
and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide from the front lines
of the information war it's Alex Jones
in all major cultures targeting children with religion with political ideas
with medical operations with drugs is illegal because it's up to the parents
it's up to their grandparents is up to the community how they want them to be
introduced to the world but for the advertisers and the big global combines
they crave more than anything on earth early access to your children so they
can habituate them or train them and create attitudes and behaviors and
habits that literally let them own your child now a good parent teaches children
to think for themselves teaches them the classics about how to think about how
big the universe is the relationship to others but if you look at modern leftist
agenda it's the opposite of what classical leftist like Thomas Jefferson
would teach like feminist baby a book we reviewed that shows the sexualization
of little girls and little boys and like their pent-up girls sticking their
butts out and that you know they're feminist and they throw fits and they
can be boys if they want I mean if you wanted to create a mentally ill person
that ends up being a basket case this is how you do it but it's by design this
is an this is a virus a political virus to absolutely break down society and
culture but that said we now have us legislator calls out EA games the
biggest in the world and Disney's predatory practices would Star Wars
themed online casino you know I ran into this about six seven years ago my son
Rex who you all knows a great guy and he's 15 years old now but back when he
was about I don't know eight nine years old maybe younger it was longer than
maybe six seven years old he stayed with my parents for the weekend and they
let him use their iPhone to play a video game that looked innocuous where you
battled dragons but then I I got him back on Monday he stayed there over the
weekend while my former wife and I went out on a vacation short vacation to the
beach and and we came back and my parents a few weeks later said my gosh we
had a $400 bill on our credit card Rex was playing this I forget the name of
it some dragon game you're trying to get treasure
and it was six seven eight years ago right when iPhones have come out and then I learned later that even though my
children didn't have iPhones they would ask me to download games and I learned
almost every time that it was military games or geometric games or Pac-Man type
games that just to even be able to win the level you have to pay money this
just happened on vacation about six months ago I was in Hawaii with my
children and on the plane they said hey dad we've downloaded this game can we
play it and I said once we land you can and it was it was what's the game
super doodle were you like what's the game where you have like a long nose and
you jump upwards as you go up again I'm teleprompter free I don't pre-plan the
stuff I'm talking about doodle jump doodle jump doodle jump so they're
playing doodle jump in the taxi to the hotel and we get to the hotel and we're
checking in and now we're in the room and I go let's go to the beach and they
go hold on dad I've I've almost gotten past the level but if you'll just pay
$5 I can clear this last level and I went doodle jump that I played at the
arcade or that I even had on a desktop it costs money now like it's a coin
machine in my house so talk about exploitation of children it's still
ongoing but imagine in a few hours playing on my dad's iPhone years ago my
son racked up four hundred dollars in charges tied to his Apple ID and to his
credit card and so now we've got EA one of the biggest or not the biggest video
game manufacturers and producers and actual game creators and Disney working
together to target kids with Star Wars games where you get tricked into paying
money to be able to play the game even though it's supposedly a free game so
now representative Chris Lee Democrat of Hawaii held a press conference to talk
about this this is the casino gulag that eight nine years ago Max Kaiser was
told by high-level folks in New York was the plan so this is where they are it's
very predatory it's whether targeting our children we should all be aware of
it here it is we are here today to ensure future protections for kids youth
and everyone when it comes to the spread of predatory practices in online
gaming and the significant financial consequences that it can have on families
and has been having on families around this nation this game is a Star Wars
themed online casino designed to lure kids into spending money it's a trap and
this is something that we need to address to ensure that particularly kids
who are underage and pause or not back this up it's a trap like Admiral Ackbar
would say that's what the wiki leaks and that's what the Facebook and that's
what the Twitter and Google document show is that we're exploiting you we're
making you alone we're giving you anxiety then we're getting your money
they're not like selling you something you need like a car or medicine or close
great it's no no no get you in here suck your parents money out and not let
your parents even know what you bought into let's continue a Star Wars themed
online casino designed to lure kids into spending money it's a trap and this is
something that we need to address to ensure that particularly kids who are
underage who are not psychologically and and emotionally mature enough to be
able to gamble which is why gambling is prohibited under 21 are protected from
being trapped into these cycles which have compelled many folks to spend
thousands of dollars in gaming fees online we're looking at legislation this
coming year which could prohibit access or prohibit the sale of these games to
folks who are underage in order to protect families as well as prohibiting
different kinds of mechanisms in those games we've been talking with several
other states as well legislators there who are looking at the same thing I
think this is an appropriate time to make sure that these issues are addressed
before this becomes the new norm for every game one of the things that's
really disturbing about this to me is that this is previously a business
practice that was mostly seen in the mobile gaming market on your iPad your
iPod games and now it's moved into the main event this is a triple A title
that's being released by the world's largest gaming studio and it has the
most popular intellectual property in the world attached to it and it's
marketed squarely at children some of you folks who are a little older may
remember a character by the name of Joe Camel he's not around anymore and we
didn't allow Joe Camel to encourage your kids to smoke cigarettes and we
shouldn't allow Star Wars to encourage your kids to gamble that's right Disney
is over here targeting and sexualizing your children with feminist baby with
her sticking your butt out saying I'm sexy you know I'm a sex symbol I don't
wear pants if I don't want to I'm a feminist I can be a boy if I want to
and finally saying feminist baby can be whatever she dreams but you're gonna
tell her what to dream right we're gonna buy this at Target put out by Disney
and then we've got Disney over here hiring convicted pedophiles to run
movie productions with children and Harvey Weinstein's the guy hiring him
well I tell you imagine the top folks that defend Harvey Weinstein what type
of people are they I think we're gonna be learning here on the air very very
soon about those types of individuals but this is it and just like Sean Parker
former president of Facebook said two weeks ago we exploit you with dopamine
and psychological warfare it's designed to manipulate and control you to not
empower you but to make you weak and make you depressed and make you controlled
so we can run and destroy your life fully control you fully dominate you and
now I can't believe my blind spot that I knew about these gambling games six seven
years ago you can hand your child your iPhone for an hour you got a $400 bill
on your hands why didn't I ever cover this thank God this this this Democrat
congressman brought this up thank God the crew brought it up because it's true
again I just ran into doodle jump six months ago is now paid to get past the
level it will not let you get past unless you pay money and they're not
telling you when you download it that's the case and it's tied to your credit
card so we've got regular gambling you know why not put casinos and inside the
public schools we've got it controlled for a reason and it shows how exploitive
the left is and how they're targeting children it's about controlling markets
and absolutely wrecking society have you ever lost your power and wanted to
simply flip a switch to get the lights back on if so pay close attention because
huge discounts are now available in solar generators perfect for backup power
outages and emergencies portable solar generators provide life-saving
electrical power when you need it most and unlike gas generators a solar
generator runs quietly emits no dangerous fumes and produces an endless
supply of electricity from the Sun it's like having an electric power plant
running secretly in your own home right now get a $5,000 solar generator for
just $995 while supplies last go to mysolarbackup.com to learn more that's
mysolarbackup.com GCN listeners use coupon code GCN at checkout for this
special offer mysolarbackup.com use coupon code GCN EMP protection
available at an additional charge heart disease is on the rise clogged arteries
high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by you
but the symptoms are there loss of energy blood sugar spikes and drops or
circulation and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you
that something is wrong here how heart and body extract is making a difference
in thousands of people's lives across America my blood pressure has normalized
my diabetes has totally improved everyone is telling me now how much
healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel I
recommend heart body extract to everyone anybody over 40 in the North American
continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their
cardiovascular system healthy order your two-month supply today by calling 866-295-5305
that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com
heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com protect your skin with
spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emeryx essentials perfect for face and body
this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever
you need sun protection we source ingredients from nature producing a
product free of harmful chemicals and toxins this natural lotion contains 21
percent zinc oxide which is the largest particle size use and we do not use
nanoparticles the larger the particle the safer it is for your body the organic
oils help hydrate the skin leaving it nice and smooth the truly natural
fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin emeryx essentials once
you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your
life naturally protect your skin with spf 30 sunscreen lotion by emeryx
essentials stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit
infowarrestore.com and learn more about the new spf 30 sunscreen lotion I know
I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally societally
economically spiritually militarily the planet's sitting on top of giant time
on with populations and globalism and the new world order's manipulation of
people's minds things are getting crazy we're trying to fix the country and
fix the planet we've also got to have rearguard actions to be prepared the
number one thing I forget to write with God is that high-quality storeable
food well the entire line of my patriot supply foods private label as info war
select is now 50% off I've only done that one time before previously 50% off you
cannot beat that and we're only doing that through Cyber Monday so it starts
today on Thanksgiving and runs through next Monday infowarstore.com you go
right there it's the full spectrum my patriot it's private label by us totally
fresh I was 25 years 50% off 50% off take action today
you're listening to the Alex Jones show
you've got it
waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front
lines of the info war okay I began to get politically aware 25 years ago I'd
read about globalist organizations and their goals and I would read the name
Ted Malik and Ted Malik again is served on the executive board of the World
Economic Forum that's one of the most powerful public globalist organizations
have not the most powerful but then even before he began to get really critical
of it in the last 10 years I'd already you know read some of his writings that
were promoting kind of an Americana system worldwide but since he's been
joining us the last year and a half wow what what a great asset to have joined
us because he predicted the beginning of the breakup of the EU many years ago
we're now seeing that accelerate I want him to chronicle since he last joined us
a few months ago what's happened since then attempts to prop up this anti-free
market facade it's attacks on families it's political goals why it's ally with
the most radical forms of Islam and then what he really thinks Trump is up to
trying to counter this Ted Malik Ted Malik.com joins us also has a new book
out we'll tell you a little bit about coming up later dealing with business
common sense business and more in fact here it is right here I've taken my
copy home and read it a month ago but Nico just hand me another copy principles
for profitable leadership so clearly the whole agenda of the globalist is to
make you Steinmeade to handicap you so they can have an organized centralized
economy well we know from North Korea Venezuela Cuba Russia under communism
that is a nightmare we know the free market systems the way to go so in this
segment let me just get the weather forecast from him when we see their
their attempts to overthrow Trump saying as a Russian agent we see the attempts
to stop nationalism in Europe is it fair to say it's failing with Merkel about
to be out McCron's trying to sound like that's coming up next segment a populist
now I mean I mean really in evidence we see victory but in rhetoric I hear them
saying we've all been defeated what's the what's the truth from your perspective
well the truth is the battle is still on and we have seriously not won that
battle the war is is maybe in the early stages and I think that we have to take
it to them I just got out of the year the the British Parliament I was just
there minutes ago and I was talking to a number of conservative MPs and I would
say there's only a fraction of those British conservative MPs will understand
the war that we're facing and the fact that socialism and worse are at their
doorsteps in some in some ways some of them even capitulate to the
centralizing and statist orientations in Europe so it's it's a fraction of
conservatives frankly that know what we're up against whether it's in the
United States in the Republican Party or in the Conservative Party of Great
Britain when you get to the continent in Europe it's even a smaller number so
we're fighting the battle but the war is still very much on and I just I just
heard your last segment to tie into it Alex the war is also one in the culture
it's not just in politics this globalist orientation is out to destroy our
families destroy our cultures and I've written about this recently to take away
the entire virtue of manliness and we're gonna talk about that because I was
gonna get into that day it's funny you sent me an article unbeknownst we're on
the same wavelength here but what you said is very very critical I think
really astute yes it's a tiny minority of leadership against corrupt
authoritarian globalism but all over the world it's super hot and people are
hungry for it it's like there's the market people want it it's good it makes
sense it works the best it's been tested over and over again but then there's not
that many high priests of it is what's funny and so many people buy into the
globalist model they think cozying up to it will give them personal power from a
Machiavellian perspective and I'm not saying this to be Machiavellian is just
true the greatest place to get personal success and power and morally so help
people would to get back into Americana free market and anti-authoritarian
globalism I mean it's crazy it's super hot Trump gets it he's he's leading it
but there aren't other people jumping on board even though the population's
ready I agree Peter Teal who's quite an astute observer and of course a very
wealthy Silicon Valley investor said that there's a there's a bull market in
free market politics and we have to we have to ride this bull market and I
think Trump is doing precisely that it's a very critical juncture this week in
the United States the Brexit decision is actually at a critical turning point in
the next month and in Europe there are a number of political elections coming up
early in the next year in Italy and in other countries where we can take this
fight to them and move it to the next level you're the expert in Europe and
again you know your degree and your whole background is understanding
communities and global markets and you know how they all tie together as
international political economy so geopolitical economy system and
understanding those interactions but you see Italy voting against EU expansion
you see France politically moving away you see Merkel in deep trouble you see
Czech Republic voting to be anti-globalist you see Austria voting in a
patriot I mean it and it goes on and on I mean that's what I'm saying all the
indicators show when when when right if you look at the barometer there's a lot
of wins that's not to say that we've again won the war and it's not to say
that you know the EU is not going to fight back that there aren't globalists
I mean all over the place in the media in politics in the culture so by no
means is this a done deal it's just that the tide is falling out and Trump and
Brexit are frankly the bellwethers when it comes to that tide so we need to keep
pushing every front we need to defend the family we need defend religious
institutions across the board no one denomination all them we need to defend
our civic associations we need to defend our free schools we need to defend our
free-thinking think tanks particularly those that favor free market oriented
policies and we need to basically I want to challenge your audience we need to
buy and shop at those companies that are part of a domestic supply chain and
what you just said is the total revolution spend some time on that
before you go to break economically voting with your dollars that's one of
the greatest powers we have indeed we have the wallet and I'm not saying we
need to boycott everything or we need to you know use all the tricks of the left
well yeah nobody's perfect but just be conscious of your power you had a great
segment you just talked about Disney and other country companies that are
exploiting young children well let's teach Disney a lesson well I want to
hear about this we got about a minute till break how do you think we do that
sir well I think we look at the businesses where Disney is is doing
those things and we basically say we're not putting up with that any longer
we're not buying the books that they put out we're not attending the movies that
they want us to attend we're not gonna watch their channel we're gonna turn it
off and maybe parents can take control again I mean this is a is also a really
radical idea maybe we can have in loco parentus again in families and parents
can be parents for a change and can you believe in 2017 that's a radical
statement I mean wow how far we've slid and hit the book is common sense
business principles for profit leadership I learned so much from the book
you can get it obviously everywhere but I again I wouldn't get it from the big
globalist combines I buy directly from his side or your local bookstore because
if you don't keep those places alive they're gonna have one big giant
monopoly over the salt so we'll be right back with mr. mallet straight ahead
Katie armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body
armor on the market and we've succeeded with the release of our CQB technology
we now offer the most comfortable concealable rifle threat body armor
available things may look good now but what if you need added protection get
your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com and for
a limited time get all plates at wholesale pricing only at catiarmor.com
fully cooked ready to eat bacon I'm talking thick meaty center cut
presidential bacon savory and delicious I buy some I use some I store some awesome
no refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life NASA pack technology bacon
fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and
served life-saving ready-to-eat bacon 10-year shelf life bacon ships free at
fully cooked bacon.com fully cooked bacon.com I want to plow into all of
this I'm gonna spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to
understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or
videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the
revolution I mean I cannot say it any clear and so it is essential that you
purchase the products at infowarstore.com I want to thank everybody that has but
we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver and
with high quality atomic iodine in it you cannot beat that for children and
adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad the
colloidal silver and iodine as well infowarslife.com or triple 825-33139 and
your purchase of the products stands with us stands with America stands with
Trump stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and
that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back
against us so we need your support America is an information-based civil war
that's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of America and let
these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying we're
only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship
being a conservative a nationalist a libertarian or simply a free speech
advocate is truly the counterculture the real punk rock is being a patriot
who's pro-america pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is
tolerance modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's
classical liberalism they are the anti-liberal to defend free speech meet
like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide we've got more than 60
original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more
patriot feral at infowarstore.com be part of the second American Revolution at
infowarstore.com with few remaining days left on the legislative calendar
congress sure has a lot on the agenda including reauthorization of mass
surveillance the current authorization for the controversial section 702
expires December 31st and it's the first time Congress has faced
reauthorization since Edward Snowden revealed the NSA's mass surveillance
apparatus civil libertarians have urged Congress to take this reauthorization
as an opportunity to implement meaningful reforms to shield innocent
Americans from mass surveillance but with the clock running out Congress appears
poised to just jam through reauthorization meanwhile the Supreme Court
has just took up a blockbuster case the privacy of emails photos stored in the
cloud even heart rate history from a smartwatch could be at stake the case
carpenter versus us will determine whether the history of cell phone
locations stored by a phone service provider is searchable without a warrant
it's a legal theory known as the third-party doctrine leon macadoo info wars.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
it's the most wonderful time you know going back 10 years ago out here the
war on Christmas and I think oh that's made up I did more research that's how
they were like banning people handing out Christmas cards schools let your
first-member right it's not the school that official religion and then now it's
just everywhere the demonization the attacks by the way speaking of this
info you can't find anywhere where I said that there are slave colonies on
Mars I don't believe any humans have been to Mars I believe we sent rovers to
Mars I never said that they say I said we didn't have a moon mission I
absolutely I've had dinner with them I've hung out with Buzz Aldrin had him on
the show I believe we've been to the moon he told me they had a lot of secret
stuff that he couldn't talk about and later that came out in the news the
reason I raised that is they just brought in these stacks of news I saw this
yesterday I didn't respond but I guess they put it now and hundreds of
publications so now it's a new big push so I should respond just briefly this is
out of the New York Daily News this is International Business Times that's a
bunch of others Alex Jones claims Las Vegas massacre was phony Alex Jones
suggests the Vegas massacre was shooting was fake I did not say that
Zach who was in Army Special Operations Command and I've confirmed who he is and
he's actually been contacted by the feds over and I'm not supposed to get into it
it's this is not a Netflix series okay this is actually the real deal okay
because it's true they don't just come kill you they ask you to stop talking
about it just like stranger things or something
Zach we know Zach is he sent us his info months ago I looked up who the caller
was couldn't believe it the voice matches did a Skype with him to confirm it
and he's telling us what really happened in Vegas and how it was this Islamic
Civil War and what Trump was doing next the FBI came and grabbed him he's now
left the country he's part Muslim is his mother was Muslim I'm not gonna say
we is he's actually been in the news before as a famous intelligence analyst
and and and army you know hero and stuff and so I'm explaining that the
official story of it being one lone guy is his phonies the $3 bill they just
come out edit it together and say that I said it didn't happen this is what they
do but clearly they're major league threatened by this so I want to say I
don't know anything else that Zach told me off air because I don't let people
tell me secret stuff off air if you're gonna say it say on air but he didn't
say anything secret he gave his opinion as a citizen of what's happening he's
now left the US we checked the caller ID we've got that on the phone system he
he called from Morocco so this isn't make believe this is the real show where
we have guests at fleet of Morocco okay so this is going on now Ted Malik you
know he's the former board member of the Davos group and you know head up the
Aspen Institute has met the very highest levels of the system it's not all one
monolithic system but he's been criticizing globalism being authoritarian
for a long time so I want to give him the floor now to get into what's
happening with Brexit what's happening in Europe what's happening with these
fights with the unelected EU he heads up the Theodore Roosevelt Institute as
well he's got the new book out common sense business but I'm sorry I had to
segue with that they're just really hitting us with with with this
information well what's happening in Europe is clearly that nation states
are trying to reassert their influence and their importance in this era of a
new world economic order and of globalism so the powers that be whether
it's the United Nations or the European Union or any one of their agents and
there are a number of them particularly in the world of publications in the
world of media are trying to snuff out and put down all of these national
leaders whether it's urban in Hungary the presidency in Poland the Brexit Nigel
of Raj and the Conservatives in the UK anywhere that this occurs they'd like to
put it out put the fire out put it away demonize it call them racist call them
all names but the fact is that this is a growing crescendo that this ball is like
a snowball rolling down the mountain and more and more entities more and more
people more and more communities more and more nation states are now saying
we've had enough we're taking back control we are going to be independent
everywhere I go they pick up Trump's line we're going to make Italy great again
we're gonna make Poland great again we're gonna make Romania great again you
can fill in the blank so he has unleashed something it's a power in the world
that has to do with the resurgence of the nation state and again I agree we
shouldn't put too positive a prognosis on this because we're having a lot of
victories but they're pushing back there's they're striking back they're
getting more nasty they're suing everybody in tarnation that just tries to
promote free market they're getting more and more shrill just at a gut level
mr. Malik is you know you're a smart guy it's how you got to be one of the board
members of the Davos group and so respected across the world what is the
sense not just of yourself but other people who are pragmatic free market
common sense successful world citizens and none of us are against being a world
citizen which against forced globalism what is your pragmatic sense versus what
these zealots are pushing they're like rabid dogs because we don't want an
unelected EU I mean what's their problem well I think that if you look at the you
know man and woman in the street obviously they don't know everything
that's happening but they see this burdensome regulatory state which is
very taxing which dries up the cost of goods which has basically seen all of
or many of their manufacturing jobs flee to other countries like China and
Mexico and they're saying we have to push back we have to have other kinds of
political leaders to take this fight to the globalists if you take the the
discussion within the political circles I think that they're still a minority of
people but they're ascended who are able to coalesce different coalitions
exactly and if it's ascended and it's historical and it's renaissance base and
it's unstoppable if people get behind it why aren't more people joining it and
that's what I'm saying the paradox of it's super popular it's the sexiest
avant-garde thing and then there's so few leaders in it well I think there are
leaders and we have to you know applaud those who have stepped out of the
establishment to be that kind of leader sure yourselves and people like Matt
drudge or Ron Paul or Donald Trump or Nigel Farage I mean yes I mean I know
there are a lot of great leaders hundreds but per capita you should have
thousands of leaders correct and we should have more alternative outlets we
should have more radio and television broadcasts we could even penetrate
universities and think tanks I think more than we're doing so I'm not saying
that we should have a five-year plan that this is going to be centrally planned a
lot of it is spontaneous a lot of it just you know sort of takes place but we
have to encourage and fan those flames so I'm I'm actually from where I sit I'm
mildly if not more than mildly encouraged by what I see happening I agree but
let's look at worst case scenario briefly we'll come back into manliness and
the big article you want to get into another topic you want to cover again
mr. Malik author of common sense business and then you know former one of
the managers of the Davos group let's talk worst case scenario how can the
Empire of status strike back well I think that they control the media to a
large extent at least the mainstream media so they try to choke us off they
obviously are bringing lawsuits against alternative voices they are trying to
paint everyone who criticizes them with you know a very dark rush calling us
names authoritarian and worse so that they have their means and we have to
basically be aware of what they're doing how they're doing it and people like
Soros who are funding it that's right we've got to alert the people that are
out there you're not just followers we're not communist you are the vanguard
the listeners and people that watch this show are people that have been
politically involved and aware of this for decades you're the brain trust you're
the reason we're here I don't just say patronizingly you're right beside us you
are not just beside us they're the heart of this
populist movement that means that it is not only popular but it's something that
the average normal person needs to join it needs to resist and it needs to
basically vote with their mind share vote with their political vote and also
this is very critical I think we need to learn how to do this vote with our
wallets that's right we'll be back folks stay with us I know I don't have to
remind most of you of the fact that culturally societally economically
spiritually militarily the planet's sitting on top of giant time with
populations and globalism and the neural orders manipulation of people's
minds things are getting crazy we're trying to fix the country and fix the
planet we've also got to have rearguard actions to be prepared the number one
thing I forget right with God is that high-quality storeable food well the
entire line of my Patriots supply foods private labeled as in full war select
is now 50% off I've only done that one time before previously 15% off you
cannot beat that and we're only doing that through Cyber Monday so it starts
today on Thanksgiving and runs through next Monday info or store.com you can
go right there it's the full spectrum of my Patriot is private labeled by us
totally fresh last 25 years 50% off 50% off take action today I'm so excited the
new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle two month servings filled
to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red bill this is a heart and
brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have any stimulants in it but boy does it
stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly I just went off what I saw
medical doctors prescribing their patients but it wasn't prescription but
they were charging people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formula and I
came up with our own formula working with scientists and developers non GMO
made right here in America 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the
preglin own to it which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has
to have to even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill now
available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase fuzzy operation the term
fake news has become so synonymous with CNN the news network wants to ban it
CNN is now pushing an effort to ban the term fake news an opinion piece argues
that the term has become meaningless and lost its power because politicians have
hijacked it as a way to undermine the media establishment the authors to cry
the fact that a majority of people now believe the mainstream media pedals
fabricated stories of course the real reason media elites want to clamp down
on the term fake news is because its original intention to smear and
discredit any dissenting opinions has completely backfired this was
illustrated yet again by president Trump's latest triggering tweet when he
suggested that a fake news trophy should be awarded to the network that has been
responsible for the most inaccurate reporting the fake news narrative is
actually acted as a boomerang showing the mainstream media to be the most
consistently dishonest entity of all leon macadoo info wars dot com America is
an information-based civil war that's why now more than ever we've got a hit
the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing
down from their bully we're only intensifying our operations in the face
of their one of the dictatorships being a conservative a nationalist a
libertarian are simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture
the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-america pro-capitalism and
pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant modern liberalism is a
counterfeit of thomas geverson's classical liberalism they are the
anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote
freedom worldwide we've got more than 60 original designs of high-quality
t-shirts for men and women as well as more patriot apparel info war store
dot com be part of the second american revolution at info war store dot com
you're listening to the alex jones show
all right folks alex jones here back live as we wage war on corruption it's
alex jones right ted malik's our guest you can follow him on twitter at ted
malik very important to do that during the break I was back there in the
break room getting a glass of iced tea and I saw it on fox news on the bottom
of the screen donald trump is a destructive force for america okay the
stock market's up hundreds of billions of new jobs 1.6 million new jobs double
the amount of veterans getting service 70% less illegals coming across
optimism up crushing the back of political correctness making americans
feel good again on and on and on and so we've got davos man on who says davos
man is dead that's ted malik i mean the consummate insider but never a bad guy
promoting americana from the inside and they're saying trump is a currently
destructive force and this is what the republicans on again if i put gas in my
card it runs smooth and i get good gas mileage it's good gas if i put bad gas
in it sputters and smoke comes out i know that place has got bad gas we've
gone from sputtering and backfiring and on fire to start to cruise pretty smooth
down the road they're going that's bad gas that's bad gas and i'm like pretty
good gas so ted malik what do you make of that and then we get in this article
you sent me that i was reading from american greatness calm the forgotten
great american male who's your daddy and again in any culture the strength of
the men and the women is the strength of the culture
this men and women against each other and then the quotes they've got of james
dean in here and what does it mean to me a man
this is pretty powerful but just briefly how do you gauge a trump presidency
well i mean i gauge it by stability and the economy
and and and and optimism and it hasn't been this good since the middle of the
reagan administration well that's that's actually a very good
a trajectory because we are back now i think
through the period when ronald reagan through supply side economics
and cultural transformation saw america come back and
and i still hear the music in my left ear it's morning in america
again and i i think we're going to see we are beginning to see that
and with the tax package if it goes through now
we'll see an even bigger swing the stock market continues to go up
unemployment is down confidence is way up every single number
i was just as i told you with a number of europe
conservative politicians in the uk those people are excited about donald
trump coming to the uk to meet the queen
for a state visit probably in february
because the uk needs to take a lesson from
the donald trump playbook uh so the rest of the world
needs to watch what trump is doing and actually take notes and i'll say this
growing up all those sentimentality and everything i thought it was annoying
but now that i realize there are forces that want to remove all that
now i realize how precious it is because it's easy to be young and dumb and
rebellious but then once you get older and you see wait we're replacing stuff
that was the vanguard of revolutionary human empowerment
with a bunch of old-fashioned tyranny i don't want that
well i i mean i wrote this article for instance and then i think that
politics is downstream from culture so our culture has become
uh very coarse very pornographic and very anti-man so i asked the question
have we lost this virtue of manliness you know whatever happened to manhood
uh boys are not doing as well in school
uh their males are seen as bad men live shorter lives
so you wrote in defensive masculinity i've got this other one it doesn't say
who wrote it it's an excellent article i read it
during the breaks the forgotten great american male which one of these is yours
no those are both my articles so i'm trying to beat this drug you know not
as some kind of warrior who shoots his dinner every night
uh okay well just to be clear the internet cut off your name yeah these
really are great can i post these info wars
absolutely the question is james deans question
from rebel without a cause uh that is a 1955 movie a classic
when his son asks them what do you do when you have to be a man
and the answer today is i don't know worse still i don't have a clue i have no
guideline i have no rules i have no masters i have no script
so that's why i facetiously ask who is your daddy in the year 2025
well that's critical and instead they're telling little boys you're really a
girl to literally sabotage have you seen the
shan parker videos where facebook admits it was a plan to sabotage
people i mean this is cold-blooded
oh i believe it is it's very calculated and we're trying they're trying to move
us either to a girly man culture or to a
androgynous culture so that there is no longer
any notion of a kind of john wane or jimmy steward man
and i think we have to fight back i know that you have a great father
i have a great father i'd be willing to argue
that most people who are successful in business most people have made a dent
in the universe have had very significant parental
and particularly father relationships so why would the establishment assault
that i mean they tell us they don't want any competition
it's like a grizzly bear that goes because if you don't have fathers and
you don't have strong families then somebody else is going to
take up that vacuum who's going to take up that vacuum
that's going to be either feminist it's either going to be the state
or it's going to be the global institutions and that's why
at the local level at the family level at the parental level we have to
take back and be responsible human beings
plus we're happy when we do that that's when we're fulfilled
being grovelant supine minions of the of the hollywood culture
is a joke and i mean how does that fit in the collapse of hollywood
and the whole collapse of their moral authority
well i think this is this has happened very quickly here just frankly in the
last few months when we see the whole thing is quite a paper tiger
and it becomes very transparent what is happening in hollywood what they've
tried to push on us and who some of their
uh leading lights were whether it's a wine sign or
kevin spacey or other demented people i mean even the media stars like charlie
rose now have been exposed so uh i mean it's almost uh you know
no day goes past now when we don't find you know another fallen victim to this
false impression that's what i was about to say everything they were
telling us about culture being rapist and evil i guess was projection because
that's what they're doing like i'm not like running around just grabbing on
women everywhere and this is like a like you said it's like a madness
well it is basically taken over the culture
and if we could get back to this virtue of manliness
the notion of a gentle man which actually has a very long history and it
has to do with flourishing human beings and strong cultures and these were
rooted originally in christendom in western europe
we'd be doing the entire world a great service
wow well i really enjoyed reading your book a month ago and i got it folks of
course can find it wherever they want to get it but if they buy it
from a smaller site unlike amazon uh you know that would actually help fund the
real economy but uh i hope you'll come back and join us
soon i know you're going to be coming to austin soon so we should have you in
studio not just have dinner look forward to having theater
roosevelt malik uh in studio whether people can follow him on twitter
at ted malik where else should folks follow you
well i think twitter is the best place but just read these articles that we
keep putting out and there are any number of great places i try to put them
and spray them all over uh some of them are in mainline
media some of them are alternative media and then there's the number of books
that i've written i think i've written 15 books so there's no shortage of places
to go how many people in closing inside the main power
structure because so many of my run into actually know what's going on
but they say the big money men on top most of them uh you know want this
authoritarian system what percentage of folks inside the power structure are
like tuned into what you're tuned into versus i know it's an oversimplification
but how many people are awake
well i'd like to say that there's uh 10 or 15 percent that are there already
there are probably another 10 or 15 percent that are
inclined and willing and i've been you know obviously teaching in
universities so i'm trying to influence the next generation of people
i mean i think that we have to do those on every front i was for five years
chairman of an organization called great dads which i recommend
parents this is fathers covening making a covenant with their children to be
great fathers we need these kinds of support structures
we have to make the commitment because our whole biological system is under
attack by very cold-blooded people the future war is not
targeting armies it's it's targeting people themselves
thank you so much for joining us great dogs
paul watson's coming up i'm going to segue a little bit with him with some of
the other articles i haven't gotten to just briefly
if you don't financially support us we won't be here you have been that's why
we're here despite everything that's why when i meet viewers and listeners on
the street and they're thanking me i want to thank you
it is so humbling to look into your eyes of every race color and creed all one
race the human race with red blood i love you all
we got free shipping extended for two more days a bunch of specials
we're going to have to probably end the day because we're about to sell out a
bunch of the products something won't sell it up because it just came in as the
real red pill while it goes great with brain force find out about at home time
to get into it all but the pregno alone and the vitamins
minerals amino acids all go together for the amazing building block for all the
major hormones in your body it is a neuron steroid of a totally legal and
totally good for you according to the reports out there find out about the
real red pill the next game changer infowarstore.com
you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life
our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get
you through the night and achieve proper sleep
millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body
relax and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day
info war's life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above
and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout
head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's infowarslife.com
enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with emmerich's essentials
we are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at
infowarstore.com including non-nano spf 30 zinc oxide sunscreen
date free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash
unscented body wash tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant emmerich's
essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body we
carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are
certified usda made with organic our mission is to
offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life
truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on
quality feel good about using emmerich's essentials
start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic
ingredients visit infowarstore.com and learn more
about the new emmerich's essentials line of organic products
that's infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
live from the info wars.com studios it's alex jones the global of social
engineers are evil but they're also smart
they're very cold-blooded and they know this assures the sun came up this
morning that if they try to make their sons
sit down when they go to the bathroom when they urinate
and teach them their girls and take them to drag queen events where they got to
give five dollar bills to naked and dancing men like to do here in awesome
that of most those boys are going to rebel and want to be super alpha males
let's see they got chemicals in the food and water they've got social
suppression
so that they can push as hard as they can to to actually
politically go in
and
militarily or via force via the police keep people from breaking outside of
those parameters now paul watson joins us taking over the
sour. paul i saw a shocking report out of the
express news out of the daily mail on a bright bar
where they're going to have your girl scouts
as they call them girl guides over there are now going to have 25 year old men
leading them and they're going to take showers with the five year old girls
that's been officially announced and i'm sure you saw a report
that's up on info wars dot com the video now about feminist baby
where the feminist baby is naked and she she's rebellious and she's a boy and
i mean the full on assault on children by disney
and all these people it's like what is their in game how did they get so
organized what is going on again new disney book
targets babies for sexualization and gender confusion
feminist baby it's up on info wars dot com paul what's your take on this
well it's another example of the sickness that we're descending into
the whole point about sexualizing children like i didn't even have any
sexual thoughts whatsoever about anything till it's probably you know
eight or nine it's like kids that age don't even involve them and they know
if you sexualize them young it creates mental illness and
degeneracy that's the plan exactly well what you've obviously got
with a lot of this is parents transposing this idea that they need to
brainwash their kids and that this is their role to be political social
justice activists which is why now you have parents dressing up their little
boys in pink dresses giving them toys even though all
the science shows that boys girls naturally gravitate towards the
toys that correspond with their biological gender
that's science that's settle but you have these demented deranged parents
who think that it's their duty not to say oh i'll let them decide and do whatever
they want that's not even it they in but they overtly transpose their demented
social justice ideology onto their children and i mean that's child abuse
if you're just as camille baglia said teaching a three-year-old they're really
a girl or a boy when they're not that is child abuse
exactly and they have all these viral videos alex where it's
you know kids or teenagers who have transitioned into a different gender and
like they actually look like the gender they've supposedly
transitioned into and it's like this is the evil example that the right is
throwing at you to say that this is all wrong no
i mean we've had actual cases numerous different times where they've used this
these transgender people and they're not even
making the effort if you're a guy with a massive beard and you put on a dress
that doesn't make you transgender you're a pervert and they've done it several
times again we're not against anybody individually
it's organized pushed to kids let them chase butterflies with a butterfly net
or play badminton or go in the woods and do an egg hunt
or or go to the planetarium don't teach them how to be trannies when they're
two years old no i mean even if you talk to gay
people like a lot of them actually went out with women and they weren't sure
until they hit the late teens in some cases or at least mid teens
now they're going in with like five six-year-old kids
this is completely deranged alex all right stay there i'm gonna introduce you
in the next segment we've got other breaking news and info wars.com
and prisonplanet.com and very soon we're gonna have massive news for you
specifically about harvey weinstein's lawyer and so much more i can't wait to
present you this information i'm so excited the new
product at info wars life.com in a glass bottle
two months servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top
the real red pill this is a heart and brain pill
a new tropic but doesn't have any stimulants in it but boy does it stimulate
because it's beyond that quite frankly uh i just went off
what i saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients
but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people a hundred two hundred
dollars for the formulae and i came up with our
own formulae working with scientists and developers
non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to
even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing
red pill now available at info wars store.com
and your purchase fuzz the operation
the matrix is everywhere it is all around us
even now in this very room you can see it when you look out your window
or when you turn on your television you can feel it when you go to work
when you go to church when you pay your tax it is the world
that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth
that you are a slave like everyone else you were born into bondage
born into a prison that you cannot smell or taste or touch
a prison for your mind
the alex journal show because there is a war
for your mind
paul watson has released a new powerful video
he's about to premiere the latest atrocities of
popular art but paul just briefly here
if you looked at how you were going to bring down a civilization and poison a
society they're following a scientific plan
i'm not saying space aliens are running this
but if you look at the culture attacks and the breakup of families and the
chemicals in the food and water all of it
is to end our species as we know it so we're on a planet in deep space all i'm
saying is this is big and those of us resisting it
the establishment can claim well you're just trying to keep a cancer going
we're trying to save the earth from the cancer
that's humanity if you believe them but then they're the ones involved in genetic
engineering and chimeras and all the things that are actually
damaging the earth and building more nuclear reactors
you could say that they're just insane but there's a focused plan
worldwide to break up families to poison the earth
and to do this paul what do you think is at the bottom of the rabbit hole and
then you take over and throw into this special report
yeah it's a long video alex it's about eight minutes long so i'll probably go
to it in the next segment where we get a chance but
i mean look at modern art for example they've exalted ugliness as beauty now
you're getting students at university level being
taught that believing in objective beauty so
believing that a vista or landscape is beautiful and yeah you can have
different tastes you can like like different styles of art
but beauty is beauty okay you know an example i give in this video
that's not beauty a turd stuffed in a toilet roll holder which is one of the
examples that's not beauty like they had a 46 million dollar sale
of this painting which wasn't much more extravagant than that one you're
showing now which is basically a guy got a
a brush stuck it on the end of a pole and did that what you see right there
just a bunch of red splodges looks like a toddler's gone
gone nuts with a bottle of ketchup or whatever 46 million dollars that sold
for at the same auction that the 450 million dollar
Leonardo da Vinci painting sold at and this is treated in the guardian
they call this guy this artist who did this like the most intelligent and
eloquent artist of our age and they say it they print it with a
straight face well as you know paul
it's discordium and it's about selling a fraud and having rich billionaires
by worthless garbage while people starve to death everywhere
this is their religion to assault the in the innate beauty we know in our
connection with god they even write that's what they're doing as the cia
as you know you've covered it declassified that ugly architecture ugly
art was meant to sabotage our basic bearings
so that we think we're insane because we love a beautiful sunset they go no
we love raping a small child to death slaying their throat
that's beautiful they're teaching us how objective it is
we just need to tune into their satanism well it's it's pushing this nihilistic
mindset that everything is meaningless that you can't achieve anything that
you can't contribute anything to the legacy of human achievement
which you know in art and you know you could pick it up pick it up from the
renaissance 700 years ago now we've literally got
this like some guy getting a brush and just moving it around and then charging
for what it is is rembrandt no one can duplicate the way he picked up light
with oil even today computers can't do it so there's no
rembrandts so a bunch of people go well i'm doing a stick figure you're going to
pay 10 million and i'm liberal i'm going to say it's the most
beautiful thing so you're going to pay for it with taxpayer money to drive up
the value i mean that's what it is it's losers getting
together saying we're losers we're going to pull down true beauty
no exactly and you know it's partly financial as well they buy this vastly
inflated overpriced art to launder money they give it as charitable donations
later on down the line to basically avoid tax it's a massive scam
by a small collection of collectors and art galleries
and they call it high culture so then when the young generation looks at this
and says well they're they're saying that this
like a urinal is high culture a turd stuffed in a toilet roll is high culture
i want nothing no part of that i'm going to play video games i'm going to do
whatever else so they make it deliberately impossible
for anyone to break into it they lower the bar on high art to dynamite it
exactly and so again it drags down the collective
encouragement that society has that younger generations have to to get up
and go and to be creative because there are modern artists that are supremely
talented but none of them are going to get in any of
these galleries because again like what we're seeing with the grammies today
there's this pressure to have an overlay of social justice consciousness
so even if your your art can be complete crap and sometimes it's literally
trash but as long as you say that it's got some social message
which oh just by coincidence pushes some far left deranged cliche
then it's perfectly fine then you get in the art galleries and again this is the
biblical story something ugly trying to pull down what's beautiful
feminist baby shows the naked baby you know this has been put out as you know
by disney and then it says i'm ugly i play with trash i don't do what my
parents say you know i do all these bad things
i do whatever i want they're teaching rebellion they're teaching failure
they're teaching just pure garbage exactly and again they're trying to
they're trying to present it as counterculture it's not counterculture
when you control the entirety of the dominant culture
whether it be hollywood whether it be the music industry whether it be art
whether it be media right you're the dominant culture you can't be the
dominant culture and the counterculture
so they push all this transgender crap all this feminist baby crap
it's like rebelling against your parents no you're conforming it's the
ultimate act of conformity to go along with this deranged
insanity that the dominant culture is poshing on a regular basis
and now it's it's even backfiring on them like i've made videos where i
break down the fact that the more hollywood gets into this social
justice this diversity obsession the more their ticket
prices their sales crater i mean they just had the worst
hollywood just like the nfl just like all of it
paul you're taking over after the break uh but just showing people the article
on info wars dot com uh that has the uh video in it
with millie weaver breaking it all down uh you look at this
and it's titled uh new disney book targets babies for sexualization
and gender confusion feminist baby children's book sexualizes infants
scroll up a little bit or scroll down you can see we blurred the naked baby
because the way they show this with the baby's butt sticking out in your face
saying i do what i want i wear no pants then you learn i'm a rock star i'm
sexualized you know and then the same artist says daddy
saying she's pretty as bad i'm not pretty
the girls can't be pretty i mean this is just mental illness
going into target buying mental illness buying this perversion to push this
garbage paul watson of info wars dot com and news wars dot com
is coming up after this quick break but before we go any further i just want
listeners to know uh we are going to have to end a lot of these
specials today we have free shipping store wide at info wars store
dot com uh trying to you know compete with a monopoly
outfit amazon and then we have our silver bullet little silver super high
quality 67 off you know at nine dollars visa
sells the same stuff at whole foods he owns for $25
all pro pure water filtration 25 off living defense parasite cleanse 50
percent off prostiguard 50 percent off brain force plus
50 percent off tactical walls concealment products for your body armor
and now in store plus many others at info wars store dot com
shop with the good guys help fund the second american revolution
free shipping sounded for auto ship an additional 10 percent off that way you
support us each month but also get 10 percent off and
the new red pill the real red pill is in multi-vitamin minerals
amino acids and then prenegal alone which is the building block of
all your hormones that most folks don't have now
because the chemicals the environment this is an incredible booster
takes about a week for it to kick in stuff like brain force kicks in in 30
minutes this takes about a week to kick in with your heart your brain everything
it's really amazing so check out the real pill the real red pill
at info wars store dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine
from london paul joseph watson takes over on the other side
we've still got three plus hours left in the global 34 hour transmission
please spread the live links george soros hates it
are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals are you happy doing
laundry with detergents are you happy paying high prices
find your happiness with pure soap these all natural earth friendly pure soaps
are the very best you've ever used buy in bulk get a 12 36 or 48 months
supply or get items individually and still save big
you're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now
earth friendly and natural soaps your family deserves the best
happiness is five star soap dot com why not put your money
up the drain for a change see them at five star soap dot com
or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog calben soap company can save you
thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are
triple concentrated soaps made from vegetable and coconut
oils see their full selection of soaps at five star soap dot com
that's fiv star soap dot com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog
hello mr. anderson the nsa has noticed how much time you spend on conservative
news sites we have no choice but to consider you a
domestic terrorist tired of your internet activity being monitored by big
brother get virtual shield dot com the world's easiest to use virtual private
network browse the web anonymously leaving pesky
advertisers and spies in the dust get started today at virtual shield dot com
take advantage of our free 30 day trial virtual shield dot com you have the right
to remain private it's a no-brainer a big burky
water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter that removes
chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors
pesticides bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two
cents per gallon get the original most trusted name in
gravity water filtration big burky and now gcm listeners receive
five percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcm call or click
1-877-99 burky or big burky water filters dot
com that's 1-877-99 b-e-r-k-e-y
choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2
and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your
thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100 percent organic mustard seed
our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99
percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this
essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which
influence every cell tissue and organ in the body with
inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the
systems in your body take control of your chemistry
today with this super combo discover the power of survival
shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life
dot com i know i don't have to remind most of you of the
fact that culturally societally economically
spiritually militarily the planet's sitting on top of giant time bomb
with populations and globalism and the new world's manipulation of people's
minds things are getting crazy we're trying to fix the
country and fix the planet we've also got to have rear guard
actions to be prepared the number one thing i forget to
rhyme with god is to have high-quality storeable food
well the entire line of my patriot supply foods
private label is info or select is now 50% off i've only done that
one time before previously 50% off you cannot beat that and we're only
doing that through cyber monday so it starts today on thanksgiving
and runs through next monday info or store dot com
you can go right there it's the full spectrum of my patriot is private label
by us totally fresh us 25 years 50% off 50% off take action today
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios
you're listening to the alex jones show and now
your host paul joseph watching
we're live it is the fourth hour of the alex jones show we're gonna go to that
new video that just went up on info wars dot com about an hour ago latest
atrocities in modern art of course it's part three
of a series that i've made about modern art the true purpose behind it we're
gonna go to that video in the next segment when we get time
before we hit the news now though i want to tell you about the cyber monday
specials at info wars store dot com we have brain force plus
which obviously i always remind you really triggers the
verified liberals on twitter when i promote brain force plus it really
gets them going so i'm going to do it every chance i get
and specifically because we've got 50% off right now info wars life dot com
on brain force plus one of our highest-rated best-selling info wars life
formulas ever it is the new tropic that all the whiz
kids in silicon valley are taking it gives you
added mental clarity if you're engaged in something that requires a lot of
concentration it's going to really give you a boost
it's going to give you a boost in energy as well without that junk feeling you
get from coffee or from those busy caffeine drinks it
is brain force plus 50% off right now at info wars
life dot com as part of the cyber monday special
we've also got gift cards for christmas at 10% off
at the info wars store so we have that special running we also have
other specials including carnivore the all new enzyme formula at info wars
store dot com that's 33% off fuel your body with carnivore the
new digestive enzyme product by info wars life that's on special offer
on this cyber monday at info wars life dot com as is
flora life the all new digestive probiotic formula
again at info wars store dot com go there support this network as we're
under constant attack let's get into the elizabeth warren
situation of course this broke yesterday with trump
again for probably about the 200th time referring to her as pocahontas
suddenly the media decided to get all offended over it and pick him up on it
even though the media itself the mainstream media has reported for
years now that senator elizabeth warren's supposed native american heritage
is probably a load of bunk oh but suddenly it's so credible it's so
believable because we can attack trump using this
i want to flash back to an article put out by cnn
i think this was last year actually during the election cycle
entitled here's the deal with elizabeth warren's native american heritage
and even they admit maybe but doubtfully
maybe she might be 132 native american one part out of 32 native american
they cite the washington post their fact checker
which decided against judging the issue also even the washington post and cnn
aren't prepared to commit to saying that elizabeth warren has any native american
heritage at all oh but now trump's the racist and it's
a racial slur even though it's a racial slur
aimed at a white woman with blonde hair and blue eyes
how completely ridiculous is that when they themselves report as recently as
last year that she had it was doubtful she had
any native american heritage oh but we can get offended about it
so we're going to treat it as if it's the height of credibility
now we have an article out of daily call an avajo co-talker breaks silence
destroys fake indian elizabeth warren with epic wall liner
actually in the gateway pundit now he was asked he was one of the
native americans an actual native american who was at the ceremony with
trump he was asked about the pocahontas comment he
said quote the marines made us yell geronimo when we jumped out of
planes and that didn't offend me either so he doesn't care about it
once again it's the deranged trump derangement syndrome obsessed left
getting offended on behalf of other people
when those people themselves don't really give a damn
now before donald trump even used the racist slur which isn't a racist slur
because she's a white woman pocahontas phil mar did it without
elizabeth warren objecting this is out of bright bar
elizabeth warren responded to the president's pocahontas pope by calling
it racist and sending out a fundraising appeal
pleading with donors to strike back at a bully
so she immediately used it to make money obviously
but when talk show host bill mar made the same quip
the massachusetts senator merely made a point about the popularity progressivism
so bill mar said to elizabeth warren i think this was last year again
quote they don't like you pocahontas earlier this year in fact and the
liberal audience laughed hysterically and warren neither
lectured the laughter's nor scolded the joker she did not respond with a
fundraising letter or denounced mar's racist speech on national television
and she simply had no reaction whatsoever so bill mar can say it
it's not racist nobody cares nobody gets offended
now we have this it gets even worse for elizabeth warren headline
elizabeth warren ancestor rounded up native americans during horrific
trail of tears so now it appears that her ancestors actually
conspired in the oppression of native americans
not only is senator elizabeth warren lying about a native american heritage
but it turns out one of the lawmakers ancestors rounded up
cherries during the trail of tears according to warren her native american
heritage comes from an oklahoma territory marriage license application
from 1894 by her alleged great great-granduncle william drake
crawford from here warren says her native american heritage comes from that
william j crawford's mother o.c. sarah smith crawford
again nobody can even confirm that they're saying possibly 132 native american
but can't confirm it well breitbart news reports today
in an article that no evidence supports that claim and the o.c.
sarah smith crawford had no cherry oki heritage
she was listed as white in the census of 1860
was most likely half swedish and half english
yeah i'm probably more native american than elizabeth warren at this point
she was also scottish german or some combination thereof
so she was european white european but the most
stunning discovery about the life of o.c. sarah smith crawford
is that her husband mrs warren's great great grandfather was apparently a
member of the tennessee militia who rounded up cherry
cherry oki's from their family homes in southeast in united states
and herded them into government-built stockades
in what was then called ross's landing now chattanooga tennessee
the point of origin for the horrific trail of tears
which began in january 1837 so it turns out
her ancestors were actually involved in the roundup
of native americans there's no evidence whatsoever this person she points to is
evidence of her native american ancestry
was native american at all she was european swedish english scottish german
that's not native american she's white she has blue eyes
she's about as native american as rachel dolezal
is african-american which is none whatsoever
but again this is something we can get offended about you saw the faces
of those reporters in the white house press briefing room yesterday
grilling the press secretary sanders about this
subject they were all head up with righteous indignation over this racial
slur launched against an innocent victim a native american no
no that nobody can even confirm it cnn
washington post they both investigated it no native american heritage was found
they don't they didn't go on record to even claim it by
so of course she used it in the heart of law school application
to try and give her an advantage over everybody else by claiming to be a
minority it's a complete scam yet they're trying to
recycle it again it's not going to work we'll be back on the
outside show live don't go away
most people think life insurance pays after you're dead
that's true but did you know you can have tax-free access to your life
insurance while you're still alive you can use the life benefits of your
life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees
no stock market risk no tax risk and no penalties
call life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done
call 702-660-7000 that's 702-660-7000
want revenge on the common house fly well after 10 000 years someone has
finally come up with a better way the bug assault a miniaturized shotgun
which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition
non-toxic and no batteries required so much fun
you'll forget you have a wife and kids 39 95 and free economy shipping use
discount code GCN and get an extra 10 off your
purchase at bugassault.com makes the perfect stocking
stuffer get your bug assault today
please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will
save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the
info war a 360 win number one when you choose
autoship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at infowarestore.com
number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign
up for autoship because we hold back a surplus for
autoship customers number three we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this
for years because it's so easy to forget to
reorder the products that you need each month just go to infowarestore.com
select your favorite product or products click on autoship and choose how
often you want us to send you another order as you know
i coined the term 360 win and with the new autoship feature in infowarslife.com
this is a sure win 10 off on autoship win win win at infowarslife.com
free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out
of stock when you sign up for autoship
proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum
levels up up up optimum levels with our modern diets
it can be hard to get the recommended amount of b vitamins we need every day
up up up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day
secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin b 12 for optimal absorption
up up up optimal absorption being deficient in b vitamins can
cause fatigue depression poor memory and lethargy
secret 12 up up up optimal absorption b vitamins help the body convert food into
energy by supporting your intercellular processes
b vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and
nervous system up up up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase
your vitamin b12 intake head to infowarslife.com and support
optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's infowarslife.com
i'm so excited the new product at infowarslife.com
in a glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim
filled to the absolute top the real red pill
this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have any stimulants
in it but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly
i just went off what i saw medical doctors
prescribing their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging
people a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae
and i came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and
developers non-gmo made right here in america 120
capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to it
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to
even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill now available at
infowarsstore.com and your purchase fugs the operation
you're listening to the alex jones show
news analysis reports it's the alex jones show
and now your host paul joseph watson
now you probably saw in the news a couple of weeks ago the sale of
a rare we discovered leonardadavinci painting for 450 million dollars
what you probably didn't see is the sale of another painting
for about 46 million dollars and for the benefit of radio viewers
listeners this video that we're about to play shows this artist painting if you
want to call it that looks like a toddler's gone mad with a bottle of
ketchup okay it's your typical modern art meaningless
dross that takes absolutely no talent this video breaks it down the true
agenda behind modern art this is latest atrocities
in modern art here's the video
davinci painting just sold for 450 million dollars but what you may have
missed at the same auction was the sale of this
monstrosity how much do you reckon did somebody buy it for 20
dollars for a laugh no 46 million dollars 46 million dollars for
something that resembles what would probably happen if a two-year-old
toddler was left on its own with a bottle of ketchup listen to the absolute
tripe they spout to describe it red is the color of wine but also a blood and
these canvases encompass both essential pleasure and violent debauchery
associated with the god this contrast is echoed in the paintings combination of
euphoric loops saw at once and the million flags of paint that ooze and
cascade down the canvas the unfurling gestures of these paintings were made
like Henry Matisse's works in old age with a brush affixed to the end of a
pole which lends them their vitality and scale
what a load of bollocks that gibberish is another example of obscurantism a
rhetorical device modern art snobs use to disguise the
fact that their art is completely meaningless
it's just a fancy way of confusing people so their initial discernment is
temporarily suspended making them afraid of criticizing
such art for fear of appearing uncultured or ignorant in reality their
first instinct is totally correct a vast majority of modern art
is talentless trash sometimes it's literally trash and the
entire industry is a price-fixing scam where galleries and auction houses in
coordination with elitist collectors keep values
grossly inflated collectors also gift crappy inflated modern art as a
charitable donation so they can avoid paying tax others buy
modern art simply as a way to launder money it took Da Vinci
three years to paint the last supper the bloke who did this just stuck a brush
to a pole dipped it in paint went like that a few times and hey presto that'll
be 46 million dollars please he spent just as much time
thinking up her name for it and after i'm sure what was an intense period of
internal debate he eventually settled on
untitled oh but wait it's part of a series because it really looks like a lot
of forethought went into the other one given that it looks
almost identical the guardian called the artist Sai Twombly
quote the most intelligent and emotionally eloquent artist of our age
yeah our age is sh** isn't it here's another spectacular work from
the most intelligent and emotionally eloquent artist of our age what
endless list of titles did Twombly agonize over before naming this one
oh it's called untitled again i call it testing a biro pen what makes this all
the more ironic is that twombly was obsessed with Leonardo da Vinci which is
like the schlub who designed this being obsessed with his embad
kingdom brunel the age of trump derangement syndrome has only
intensified the belief that anything can be considered art if it serves to
amplify some demented far left political cliche the carpet
if you look very closely you see you see it's made up of thousands and thousands
of african babies oh it's like he's literally walking on on african baby
yes and like so he's like the west and the african babies are like africa
that's a very good interpretation remember the black lives matter supporting
performance artist who twerked a giant fat ass once for every time an african
american was killed by a cop yeah that was my favorite now a transgender
artist has collected 200 gallons of urine to protest trump
yeah stop piling piss isn't art it's a mental illness this artist embarked on a
quote observation of zeitgeist through the so-called
thanato political dimension of contemporary biopolitical practices
what actually happened is that she breastfed her own dogs which is closer
to animal abuse than it is art but who am i to judge this genius didn't even
bother slapping a few splodges of paint on a canvas and instead just
literally wrote the words please imagine a boring abstract painting but why
even bother writing anything when you can just glue cardboard boxes to the wall
having already blown half a million dollars on a blue ring
calgary wasn't finished yet artists always say their aim is to move people
with their work well a massive new sculpture in calgary is definitely
moving a lot of people there into writing hate mail just off the trans canada
highway stands calgary's latest public art
installation both work towers the project cost half a million dollars
the museum of modern art in new york mohmer remains as cancerous as ever
this piece of art celebrates quote downtown counterculture exactly what's
artistic or counterculture about some pouting soy boy flouncing
around in front of a camera your guess is as good as mine
it's like even like the reductive nature of this like his color scheme is so
fascinating yeah his color scheme is so fascinating he's
literally used one color respondents to the twitter
thread reacted with their own pieces all of which were actually more intricate
than the dross hanging in the gallery share photos on instagram showing how
you interpret the hijab as part of a modern wardrobe
yeah the hijab is so modern that women all over the middle east who refuse to
wear it or simply let it slip or subjected to abuse beatings imprisonment
and death so modern so progressive next up at
mohmer share photos showing how you interpret the chastity bell as part of
a modern wardrobe but given how insufferably boring and
pointless their exhibitions are it was thoughtful of mohmer to provide this
jigsaw puzzle for visitors oh no that's a piece of art too
no an unfinished jigsaw puzzle is not art it's an unfinished jigsaw puzzle if
people say it's art it's art um i think that's
absolutely rubbish so you could say anything is art
you just could say everything is art but the point is that is my shoe art
if people say it is i have to then judge it on those terms i think that's a
totally ridiculous argument well i never heard anything more ludicrous in my
life when it's sort of a replica sports shirts they're not art
they're replica sports shirts just because you move them to a different
location and devoted a poncy pretentious monologue to them doesn't
suddenly make them art they're still replica sports shirts just
like sticking a piece of plastic s*** through a toilet roll holder
doesn't change the fact that it's just a piece of plastic s*** up through a
toilet roll holder art that has to be in a gallery to
be art isn't art some kids left a pineapple in the
middle of an exhibition and people mistook it for art thinking that
everything is subjective that there are no objective standards of beauty and
that anything can be considered art isn't a refined opinion it's
dumb if you think that you're not sophisticated you're a clown
students are now being taught that believing in objective standards of
beauty and art is cultural fascism beauty has fallen into
disrepute for some reason people have
marginalized the pursuit of beauty there's been a huge cultural
shift an almost deliberate attempt to expel
beauty from the place in human life that it naturally occupies
which is the center the message that art has been
perpetrating for the last 50 or even 100 years
that in the end that our aspirations to be something better
are all self-deception and delusion of course there is natural beauty and
there's the beauty of the human face and the human form
there's the beauty of animals and the beauty of landscape
everybody is aware of that it stands there as an independent witness to the
meaning of the universe what kind of damage is all this doing to the fabric
of western civilization 700 years after the start of the
renaissance and this is where we've arrived if this is what we call high
culture an endless parade of meaningless debris that promises
nothing and delivers nothing what does this say about our society
what does this say about our contribution to the grand tapestry of
mankind's collective achievement what does this say about how we've let
these culture vultures tarnish and defile the legacy of beauty
handed down by our ancestors we mustn't be afraid to
loudly proclaim the emperor has no clothes we mustn't be afraid to call
out abstract modern art for precisely what it is a wretched ugly
manifestation of post-modernism an insult to our heritage
a desecration of our human potential
there you have it latest atrocities in modern art
video is up on pause.com right now and again we see the same process in
nfl we see it in hollywood as long as everything politicized it doesn't
have to have any talent that's become the main focus of
course standards in art beauty is rejected
ugliness is venerated so long as it pushes a demented
far-left message we'll be back on the fourth hour live don't go away
after years of research working with top developers here in the united states
with the latest cutting-edge science we are rolling out three new
digestive gut aids one of them is a powerful
pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down
meat other proteins better and then the other two is a powerful
50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolive advanced restoration and we also have an every day extremely
affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance but all of these
are the very cutting-edge top-of-the-line
probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely
affordable price that is my goal here is to bring you
the very best at the lowest price when you purchase it
and nflwarestore.com you know you are also financing
the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom
worldwide america is an information-based civil war
that's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of america and let
these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullies
we're only intensifying our operations in the face of their
wannabe dictatorship being a conservative a nationalist a
libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture
the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-america
pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time
is tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of thomas geverson's classical liberalism they are the anti-liberal
to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide
we've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and
women as well as more patriot apparel at nflwarestore.com
be part of the second american revolution at nflwarestore.com
i know i don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally
societally economically spiritually militarily the planet's sitting on top
of giant time bomb with populations and globalism
and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds
things are getting crazy we're trying to fix the country and fix the planet
we've also got to have rearguard actions to be prepared
the number one thing after getting right with god is to have high quality
storeable food well the entire line of my patriot supply
foods private labeled as nflware select is now 50
percent off i've only done that one time before previously
50 percent off you cannot beat that and we're only
doing that through cyber monday so it starts today on thanksgiving
and runs through next monday nflwarestore.com
you go right there it's the full spectrum of my patriot
it's private labeled by us totally fresh last 25 years
50 percent off 50 off take action today
not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it
why is this so good because people are actually waking up to the problem that
pretty much scares me the most i mean i try to make sure that i
don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but
right now we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything
that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism right now with all
the refugees uh spreading disease around we have
biological warfare going on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about
all the stuff i said there's so many things that are in it you have the neem in
there you have the organic clove bud the organic
wormwood i recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year all right
well i'm glad we've got some back in because i'm going back on it today it
just came back in yesterday living defense info wars life dot com and
folks you can't lose it's full of stuff that's great for your body period
and you support the broadcast info wars life dot com
thank you doctor group from the global healing center thank you so much for all
your work sir on this great product
you're listening to the alex jones show
live from the info wars dot com studios you're listening to the alex jones
show and now your host paul joseph watson
well the grammy nominations came out today and the left is all over twitter
celebrating the fact that very few white performers or artists were
nominated for grammy's in fact i posted a tweet about an hour ago
from a huffington post actually it was retweeted by the huffington post so a
kind of semi endorsement from another verified liberal on twitter called
jenna amatully who celebrate the fact that quote no white men were
nominated uh for the album top album awards at the
grammy's with the words white men are cancelled
she's actually happy that there are no white men up for receiving a big
grammy award this year which of course ties in with this
article which is up on drudgereport.com
grammy awards shocker for cbs's top pop stars ed sheer and lady auger snubbed
no country acts in main categories now before the break i was talking about
how everything is being politicized with the nfl
and the take a knee controversy of course that's harmed them massively
viewership is down espn espn is collapsing
people just aren't turning up for the games because they don't want politics
injected into absolutely everything they're sick of it
in fact there was a big poll a few weeks ago that showed the vast majority of
americans don't want politics injected into their sports
that's the one time they want to get away from it they go to a movie theater
they want to get away from it because it's just constant
incetin everything politicized everything divisive
they're sick to the back teeth of it but as i said with the modern art
again you have this crappy modern art that gets put in galleries
simply because the artist claims it has some social message to send
even if it's literally you know an unmade bed or a few splodges of pain
or in some cases absolutely nothing just a white canvas on a wall
as long as they claim it has some some social justice message to communicate
then it gets in there and now we're seeing it with the grammy's
taylor swift of course has been attacked by cosmopolitan magazine and others
over the past few weeks because she hasn't contracted
trump derangement syndrome yeah taylor swift had the
temerity to not inject herself into this partisan
political bickering over the past 12 15 months
so now she's being attacked for not saying anything
like she may say something that might offend a bunch of people but no not
even that she's not said anything about donald
trump anything about the presidential election
so now she's being attacked and lo and behold this article explains it
taylor swift will not perform at the grammy's she'll not be performing her
song look what you made me do
milie syris won't be singing malibu there are no country music acts performing
at the grammy's basically white people have been expunged from the awards to
a large degree in the nominations at least and you know
doesn't even matter this is supposed to be a meritocracy it shouldn't even be an
issue but the left is all over twitter
celebrating the fact that basically hardly any white people have been
nominated for grammy's and in this article they point out
the mere act of not having a country music act performing or nominated
is going to crush them when it comes to viewership
we've seen the same process again with the nfl with hollywood
hollywood just had its worst summer season in years and years their income is
plummeting and it's partly to do with the fact
that all this politicization all this social justice all this diversity
obsession is being injected into movies
at the expense of plot at the expense of character development
everything's just a recycling of superhero franchises
people are getting sick of it nobody's got any new ideas nobody's prepared
to take risks because again they're being judged on
oh how many non-white characters are in the lead how much diversity is in your
movie not if it's a good movie like who cares
but now it's in the grammy's and now they're saying that taylor swift won't
perform there are no country music acts performing
and you know god forbid taylor swift would remain silent on politics
because she's the authority right we must hear from taylor swift
about the presidential transition and the trump administration's
legislative agenda if what what are we gonna do if you don't hear from the
noted expert taylor swift on any of that
in fact it's become quite a funny meme over the past couple of weeks which i've
joined in on which people accusing taylor swift of
being involved in a deafening silence over everything from
you know the the fall of the macabre regime in zimbabwe
to the threat that the development of artificial intelligence poses to the
survival of humanity how dare taylor swift not comment
on any of that her silence is deafening and she's complicit
now she's being punished by the looks of it by the grammy's
she won't perform her single this again is an outgrowth
of this incessant obsession with injecting politics into everything
you remember last year at the grammy's there was a huge pressure
for every winner of an award who got up and gave a speech
to say something about donald trump because it was in february it was right
after the inauguration it was right when the whole muslim ban was going into
effect they were under pressure to say something the
ones who didn't were the ones who got highlighted
that's the level of indoctrination and cult like witch hunt mob behavior
amongst the left to the point where it's not even if you say something that
offends them it's if you don't say anything at all
if you don't join the cult amplify the mantra
and that's the trap that taylor swift being caught in god forbid as a
pop star she would just want to focus on making records and
performing at concerts no no no you have to get on the bandwagon
because we're intolerant we're hateful we will hunt you down
that's the progressive left and now it's taking place again at the grammy's
fox news reports and this is hilarious feminism site medusa magazine shuts
down after founder admits it was pure satire what appeared to be a far
left feminism magazine has shut down after its creator revealed that the
entire project was a joke filled with over the top satire packaged as
liberal talking points designed to mock legitimate feminist and their supporters
so basically the owner the founder of this website
came out and said look feminist social justice worries the far left are so
deranged they're so over the top that our efforts to mock them
by producing satirical articles which are way over the top
isn't working anymore it's not funny because we can't compete with them
they're so demented they're so deranged we can't even think up
think of anything that would be more ludicrous than what they're actually
doing so now he's shutting down the website and it's
interesting because a lot of news outlets actually fell for these articles
thinking they were real gateway pundit
russian news sources and others including info wars
so mea culpa there this was so close to the bone this was so accurate to what
feminists were actually doing that we fell for it we thought it was real
now they're shutting down the website because of po's law
which basically means that the satirical content is not
far enough removed from the actual insanity that's taking place
people can no longer tell the difference so now they're having to shut down the
entire website absolutely hilarious bbc news reports
teenager 17 guilty of plotting cardiff terror attack a teenager from south
wales have been has been found guilty of plotting a terror attack in cardiff
a 17 year old planned to bomb a justin beaver concert
in the name of alla now this 17 year old kid was white
and he was british so tell me again about how criticizing islam
is racist now fact check islam is not a race
you get white jihadists who plan terror attacks just the same as you get
persian jihadists just the same as you get arab jihadist planning terror attacks
islam's not a race and that's yet another example of it
meanwhile also in the uk we have a massive problem here with islamic
schools they're now going in and finding
material let me pull up the article here this is out of rt
where the actual material is teaching children in schools
the headline is beating wives if they refuse sex is okay according to books
in britain's islamic schools this is out of rt
the books sanction domestic violence and say women should never refuse their
husband sex are among a series of sexist materials that inspectors
have found in britain's islamic schools so they contain quotes such as quote
the wife is not allowed to refuse sex to her husband
or leave the house where she lives without his permission
this is being taught to boys and girls in british schools and in fact they go
through it and they're replicating they were they're regurgitating in
exams in essays what they read in these books
so this is yet another example of how an actual misogynistic sexist anti-woman
belief system is being allowed to penetrate at the
very root of society what a feminist got to say about it
absolutely nothing and it's happening in british schools right now
kids being taught to treat women as second-class citizens but because it's
in muslim schools oh we can't do anything about it
because we have to be politically correct because we really care about
women's rights but let's just ignore that okay
time magazine says trump not as person of the year perhaps linda saw saw
of course the woman who said to ayan hercialli the muslim reformist sex
muslim reformist she could take her vagina away because she's progressive
like that now it appears that time magazine
may make linda saw saw the person of the year this is who they want to
represent hijab and all the new america
absolutely incredible she ought to take advantage of those
passions and almost all the comments to wrap it up for the fourth hour
war room is coming up next don't go away
the term fake news has become so synonymous with cnn
the news network wants to ban it cnn is now pushing an effort to ban the term
fake news an opinion piece argues that the term has become meaningless
and lost its power because politicians have hijacked it
as a way to undermine the media establishment the authors decry the
fact that a majority of people now believe the mainstream media pedals
fabricated stories of course the real reason media elites want to clamp down
on the term fake news is because its original intention
to smear and discredit any dissenting opinions
has completely backfired this was illustrated yet again by president
trump's latest triggering tweet when he suggested that a fake news
trophy should be awarded to the network that has been responsible for the most
inaccurate reporting the fake news narrative is actually acted as a boomerang
showing the mainstream media to be the most consistently dishonest entity of
all leon macadoo info wars dot com
refresh your breath with imrex essentials organic mouthwash
our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums
and provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste
imrex essentials mouthwash is non-gmo certified organic
made without alcohol chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors
fragrances or dyes the pure organic plant extracts are concentrated
containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen
your breath this antiseptic mouthwash is a
concentrated formula you will need to dilute one part
mouthwash to 10 parts water imrex essentials mouthwash is a great
addition to your daily brushing routine it is effective yet gentle enough for
the most sensitive gums and canker sores go organic today with
imrex essentials visit infowarstore.com to learn more that's infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
