The answer to 1984 is 1776, you're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's Black Friday the 24th of November 2017, I'm going to be live here for the next four
hours.
I am your host, Alex Jones.
This is the Info War.
Wow, top brands pull YouTube ads over pedophilia fears.
It's true, they have a lot of very, very serious stuff, sexualizing children on the
Google platform.
We're going to be discussing that we've got Black Friday Madness videos and so much
more, but first a powerful report from our own John Bowne.
You might be an evil stain on humanity when the prime minister of your native country
starts a television and billboard campaign against you.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban accuses George Soros of claiming that George Soros
wanted to settle at least one million immigrants per year and pay them thousands of euros.
You're going to be seen reported Soros whose political views are in stark
contrast to Budapest ruling the Fidesz party said Monday he had been targeted by an administration
stoking anti-Muslim sentiment and employing anti-Semitic tropes reminiscent of the 1930s.
Sorry George, the Nazi-esque techniques being used against you excuse doesn't add up when
you are on record of actually being proud of turning in your fellow Jews during the
Holocaust.
When the Nazis occupied Budapest in 1944, George Soros' father was a successful lawyer.
He lived on an island in the Danube and liked to commute to work in a rowboat.
But knowing there were problems ahead for the Jews, he decided to split his family up.
He bought them forged papers and he bribed a government official to take 14-year-old
George Soros in and swear that he was his Christian godson.
But survival carried a heavy price tag.
While hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews were being shipped off to the death camps,
George Soros accompanied his phony godfather on his appointed rounds confiscating property
from the Jews.
No problem at all.
No feeling of guilt.
No.
For example, that I'm Jewish and here I am watching these people go, I could just as
easily be there.
I should be there.
None of that.
Well, actually, funny way, it's just like in markets that if I weren't there, of course
I wasn't doing it.
But somebody else would be taking it away anyhow, whether I was there or not.
I was only a spectator.
The property was being taken away.
Meanwhile, the leaders and deep pockets attempting to overthrow the country with a variety of
anti-American leftist foundations sat down together at the La Costa Resort in Carlsbad,
California to discuss a summit that was intended to remain confidential.
However, the Washington Free Beacon obtained the internal documents of the summit reporting
the Democracy Alliance is a safe place for donors and activists to meet.
Guests are instructed not to share members' names with the press and not to post to any
social media sites to contact Democracy Alliance if the media or a blogger contacts them and
to refrain from leaving sensitive materials out where others may find them.
This latter directive was obviously ignored.
The agenda for the meeting, titled Beyond Ashtag Resistance, reclaiming our progressive future,
lays out three full days of events.
Agendas included the fight against Trump's tax proposal, the war against climate change
deniers, and a plan of attack on waging war against the progressive version of so-called
fake news.
And I don't mean CNN.
Notable speakers included one of the Democratic Party's propaganda outlets, Brave New Films,
a talk with United States Public Enemy No. 1 George Soros, which will be followed by dinner
with Nancy Pelosi spewing out a myriad of fabrications about what Americans really want.
The rest assured, when the elitists aren't on the beach playing golf or buying Gucci
handbags, they will be hard at work figuring out how to take down the exponential populism
of the American people with their army of leftist foundations.
John Bown reported for Infowars.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and
overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Infowar.
This will be a day long remember, we've seen the end of the Clintons, we'll soon see the
end of the globalists.
Donald J. Trump is now President of the United States.
It's not true.
That's impossible.
Such a thing as you know it to be true.
It's also what happens when you listen to the radio host, Alex Jones.
We pledge allegiance to one flag and that flag is the American flag.
We pledge allegiance to one flag and that flag is the American flag.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're live, we're broadcasting worldwide.
I'm in studio on this Friday, Black Friday transmission.
So much news to cover.
Top brands pull YouTube ads over pedophilia fears.
That's Fox News, Associated Press, you name it.
Wow, I thought mainstream media said that there wasn't a big awakening to pedophilia
and people pushing sexualization of children.
The truth is it's massive.
We're going to have news breaking next week exclusively showing Disney heavily involved
in it.
Get ready.
That's all coming up.
We are going to have a huge breakdown of Black Friday mayhem and riots and malls being closed
across the country.
That news is all on infowars.com.
We have the continued slide of the NFL.
They've gone from arrogantly trying to be anti-American to now begging people to tune
back in.
And guess what?
Magic's gone.
Spell is lifted.
Bye-bye.
I think of spells, call for Sleeping Beauty to be banned in the UK because princess kisses
are illegal because the princess didn't know because she was deep in a trance.
So there you go.
This is the political correctness.
Let the Muslims blow up churches and mosques all over the world every day, cut women's genitals
off.
The leftists say that's just part of their religion.
But ban Sleeping Beauty.
That's up on newswars.com and infowars.com with the bombings by Boko Haram.
They're in Nigeria, Northern Nigeria, and in the Sinai.
They're in Egypt, 235 dead in just one of those attacks.
But coming up, grown men fight over toy car here on Black Friday, America's new trick
to beat Black Friday crowds where employee uniforms.
It is bedlam.
Meanwhile, Soros views nation state as a problem once one world government says senator.
It's all coming up today.
But first, I want to air just part of a powerful Millie Weaver report that Millie Weaver and
Gavin Wentz shot last night and today.
It's up on infowars.com.
Black Friday has stolen Thanksgiving.
Here's part of this important report.
Millie Weaver reporting for infowars.com and a happy Thanksgiving to you all.
I am here at a Walmart in Austin, Texas.
Well, here's what's interesting here.
Black Friday is on Friday, not on Thursday.
However, many businesses such as Walmart, Target, even the local malls around here have
all opened on Thanksgiving so that people can get their early Black Friday deals.
So that come Black Friday, there's not as big of a frenzy as we've seen in the past.
We've seen people jumping on each other, tasing each other, attacking each other,
macing, punching.
I mean, it's all out madness when people think that they're going to get a deal.
Now the irony here is that in actuality, the sales and the deals that you get on these
Black Friday sales aren't even as good as sales that you could find throughout the year.
For items that you actually want.
Most of the time, I mean, I've seen people fighting over a vegetable steamer.
I mean, fighting over the most ridiculous things in a store because it's on sale.
It must be a good deal.
Now what's interesting here is people are supposed to be spending time with their families.
Thanksgiving is about being thankful for your family, thankful for the things that you have
in your life.
Thankful for your neighbors, your friends, your family, for the food on your table.
It's about people getting together in unity and spending time together, being thankful
for spending time together.
Nowadays, we have all of these big corporations completely taking over and hijacking Thanksgiving.
Thanksgiving is going to no longer be about having a turkey dinner, spending time with
your family, staying indoors and your neighbors coming over and everyone sitting around the
fireplace talking, being thankful that family's in town.
No, now Thanksgiving is going to be about being thankful for that vegetable steamer that
you stole out of someone's hand and that you have now achieved, you have now taken and
gotten this amazing deal on Black Friday.
So I just want to show you.
I mean, this is ludicracy here.
I went around Walmart, Target, the malls around here, and it's kind of all the same thing
right now.
You see a good amount of cars in the parking lot.
You don't really see any lines anymore.
On Black Friday, you used to see tons of people lining up outside of stores, camping.
And nowadays, today, I'm just seeing people are already in shopping on Thursday, on Thanksgiving.
The day they're supposed to be spending time with their family, they're in there buying
gifts for Christmas or buying gifts or items that they might not even need.
Some people will buy like three different, three big LED, high definition TVs that you
don't even need, but wow, it's such a great deal.
I'm going to grab it so that somebody else can't have it.
You see, these big corporations advertise to you all during the day on Thanksgiving.
Usually when people are watching football or sitting down and watching TV while they're
waiting for their Thanksgiving dinner, they advertise, you've got to get this deal.
Go to Macy's.
Go to Walmart.
Go to Target.
Go to the mall.
You have to have this.
You have to have that.
Right?
We have the best sales.
And if you don't go out there and get them now, well, you're losing and everyone else is
winning.
They're willing to go out and fight for their items.
They're going to get the best deals, deals that you can only get once a year.
Well, that's been researched and it has been proven to be incorrect.
The deals on Black Friday aren't even that great, aren't even that special of deals.
You can find those deals throughout the year.
In fact, you could probably find better deals online.
And many people have started actually shopping online for Black Friday or for what people
call Cyber Monday, which is the Monday following Thanksgiving weekend.
Which by the way, if you are one of the people who aren't going to be ruining your Thanksgiving
by going out here and shopping and trying to get these Black Friday deals, then you
might want to spend some time on infowarstores.com and stock up on some of our awesome products
that we have on sale for special on Black Friday.
Because why go out here and fight the frenzy, fight the chaos, you know, step out of the
house and away from your family when that's not what Thanksgiving is all about.
Thanksgiving is supposed to be about family and neighbors.
Absolutely.
And enjoying a meal together.
The full report by Millie Weaver is up on infowarstores.com and there she was out on Thanksgiving
evening documenting that report live that we just reared parts of here.
By the way, we've got a report of stampede in London and shots fired.
So we'll see if that's an Islamic attack.
We've seen Nigeria bombing 50 killed in early morning attack on Mosque, religion of peace
strikes again.
But nowhere in these articles does it say Islam and Sinai Mosque attack kills 235 in
Egypt, but nothing to do with Islam.
If you say that in Germany, you'll be arrested because Islam is totally peaceful.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully
cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing.
Free guidelines, discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org.
Hello, Mr. Anderson, BNSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother, getvirtualshield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at virtualshield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still
alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk and no penalties.
Call life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
Hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still
maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
It's time to build your own food storage with HarvestWrite's FreezeDryers.
Go to infoorstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's
easy to use.
And let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze-drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire
meals.
Woo!
That's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
HarvestWrite FreezeDryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
HarvestWrite is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze-dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infoorstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infoorstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at infoorstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that.
For children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's by
dad, colloidal silver and iodine as well, infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139 and
your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are
and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
The story broke on Tuesday that we covered at infowars.com but I wanted to go back to
it today.
If you look at the image of the North Korean military officer trying to flee in a jeep,
in a truck to the demilitarized zone on the border with the south and having scores of
soldiers boil out like ants out of an ant hill, out of a pill box, out of a bunker and
fire more than 40 shots, five of them hitting him as you see South Korean soldiers on the
flare footage dragging him away to safety.
We can go ahead and roll the footage if you like for TV viewers.
And when you witness the video shot by the United Nations that's in control of the DMZ,
it really gives you a bird's-eyed view into just how hellish countries like North Korea,
Venezuela, Cuba really are.
And the fact that this guy was an officer and had dozens of different types of parasites
in him including parasites that aren't usually in humans.
Now it's well known that the North Korean military eats the poop of the inner party
leaders.
So that's another reason they've got so many parasites is they literally live off the
feces of the higher ups.
I'm not kidding they cook it but obviously he wasn't cooking his, I don't mean to be
gross here, there's almost no bugs or birds in the north, it is a literal hellhole.
And even Vanity Fair 20 years ago had a big story about one of the reporters there who
noticed that even in the middle class areas they're tiny, they were selling dead children
smoked meat as the only meat.
So there's the flare footage, you're a TV viewer, of them dragging the North Korean
military officer risking his life shot five times.
You see the trail of blood there that shows up as white on the black background as he's
drug away.
Now compare that to people in the United States, the Antifa folks, the Liberals, the Socialists,
the BLM folks that have their smartphones, their designer shoes, their designer clothing,
you've done reports on it looking at the average garb of one of these people, they'll be wearing
$400, $500 worth of clothing, they'll have a $600 smartphone in their hand, many times
I see them get out of nice Jaguars, Mercedes, you name it, to go out and do their demonstrations
and hit people in the head with bike locks and they're calling for the take down of America
and free market and they hate this country and all they do is celebrate any problems
we've had and basically exaggerate those problems and then make it look like the West is the
most evil thing in world history.
It shows what communism and socialism and authoritarian systems create, poverty, shortages,
bondage.
Now you could argue, well North Korea's had horrible sanctions on it for decades, well
the Soviet Union had long lines for food and a lot of malnutrition and problems as well
despite the fact their population had high IQs, South Korea is incredibly prosperous,
they have some of the highest IQs in the world, some of North Koreans but they're under an
authoritarian regime and that is the fount, that is the headwaters, that is the place
from which all of this floods, that's where it comes from and then you compare that with
the West where the poorest people in this country live like kings compared to North
Koreans or people in Venezuela.
Venezuela now has malaria outbreaks across the country because they can't even buy or
produce the anti-malarial drugs, they long since ate their pets and their farm animals,
now cannibalism is popping up, black plague is back, leprosy is back, drug resistant TB
is there, they are cursed despite the fact that Venezuela per capita, check it out for
yourself in the World Almanac, has five times the resources per square mile that the United
States does, rich volcanic soil, rainforest, fields, valleys, ocean, diamonds, rubies,
emeralds, gold, silver, rare earth minerals, incredible fauna, flora, but it's a hellhole,
it's a hellhole and it's the same thing again and then you see spoiled rotten brats, the
other end of the extreme of the North Korea, you see all these people lined up on the day
before Black Friday when the Black Friday sales historically at stores are some of
the worst of the year, there's major reports on that, they jack up prices then they lower
them on that day when a month before you could have bought them for a better deal, by the
way our Black Friday specials are always the best we offer right through the year, we have
some other big specials as well, obviously in December this is the season for that but
we have 50% off dozens of our best selling items, free shipping, store wide, X2, 67%
off colloidal silver, silver bullet right on that, brain force 50% off right now, limited
edition t-shirts, only four days left to get the anti-fascist, anti-communist shirt, we're
going to start doing the shirt of the months that are only available for one month, it
is the best seller, 25% off the water filtration systems and so much more at infowarslife.com
or infowarsstore.com or 888-253-3139, but I'm done plugging there, the point is you
juxtapose thousands of iPhone cases and hundreds of smart phones and hundreds of different
types of televisions and tens of thousands of different types of medicine and all these
giant movie production houses and news and radio and textile plants and thousands of
choices of religion and just all the things we have and there's the other extreme of having
so much, we don't appreciate it and spoiled rotten brainwash teenagers and young people
are taught by the big government run, big corporate finance, taxpayer finance schools
that America and freedom and free market is horrible and has bad inequity and is an evil
system and that socialism, communism and authoritarianism is this wonderful bed of roses, if we could
just realize it here, it'd be so wonderful.
The truth is the big mega rich globally, finance communism, created communism and socialism
and they put it into countries, they want to damage and implode, have a period of revolution
and within 5 to 10 years they come in, depose who they first put into power to erect society,
to end free market, to end the old structures for social engineering, then they come in
with phase two, then they start reforming it over the next decade like communist China
and make it a bifurcated true class society with the ultra rich inner party of the communist,
all worth billions of dollars apiece with a giant suboid slave class under them control.
That is the true globalist model, according to Zbigniew Brzezinski, according to Carol
Quigley, according to Al Gore, according to Obama when he would go to South America and
teach them that, you got big mega banks and they interface with you that will be communist
and it's going to be great, they're all sitting there nodding their heads, we'll be back with
massive key reports, I'm Alex Jones, stay with us.
Hey Daniel Brieman, why new manna storeable foods?
We believe in freedom, America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead
and we take this charge seriously, we got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals,
great taste and value, new manna is a no lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today, call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775, online discounts available at
powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead, that's true, but did you know
you can have tax free access to your life insurance while you're still alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees, no stock market risk, no tax risk and no penalties.
Call life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000, that's 702-660-7000.
America is an information based civil war, that's why now more than ever, we've got
to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down
from their bullying, we're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe
dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counterculture, the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism
and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism, they are
the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide, we've got more
than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot
Feral at infowarstore.com, be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally, societally, economically,
spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top of giant time bomb with populations
and globalism and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds, things are getting crazy.
We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet, we've also got to have rearguard actions
to be prepared.
The number one thing, I forget to rhyme with God, is to have high quality storeable food.
Well, the entire line of my Patriot supply foods, private labeled as infowar select,
is now 50% off, I've only done that one time before previously, 50% off, you cannot beat
that, and we're only doing that through Cyber Monday, so it starts today on Thanksgiving
and runs through next Monday, infowarstore.com, you can go right there, it's the full spectrum
of my Patriot, it's private labeled by us, totally fresh, it's 25 years, 50% off, 50%
off, take action today.
I'm driving home here, about to take off a few days for Thanksgiving, and I just want
to impart my message to the listeners and viewers of how much I appreciate you and how
thankful I am, and I also just want to re-emphasize the point that if you weren't there taking
action, and if you weren't there spreading the word, globalism would have completely
taken over not just this country but other nations, and globalism is a completely anti-individual,
anti-God, anti-family, anti-Christian cancer that is just pure power cult will to dominate
and control society, and that we have come so far with God's help, and have turned the
tide with the enemies tracking back, so just please, we should all be so thankful to God
and thankful to each other for taking action, but also, girt ourselves and get ready for
the next big fight ahead, because history is happening, so for myself and my family,
God bless you all, have a great Thanksgiving.
You are listening to the Alex Jones show.
You are listening to an Infowars.com frontline report.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Okay, I'm going to get into Black Friday.
I'm going to get into your phone calls, the latest on George Soros, the latest on the
economy, the Islamic attacks intensifying around the world.
We've got shots fired at a central tube station in London about 30 minutes ago.
All we know is there's a bunch of people stampeding, and there's been a bunch of injured reported
because of that, so pray for folks there, but big Islamic coordinated terror attacks across
the world.
We're going to be covering that coming up more as we learn more throughout the four
hours of broadcast today, but before I go any further, let me get into a piece that I'm
about to play here that is so riddled with disinformation, I'm tempted to make a whole
hour long special on it, just to illustrate how deceptive it is.
It's a Vox article in an AV Club story, AV Club video, attacking Sean Hannity saying
he's a conspiracy theorist for talking about Seth Rich, even though Donna Brazil says he's
right and it was probably a political murder, that's the former head of the DMC, and that
there's no shadow government and nobody trying to remove Trump from office, even though we
have Schumer on TV saying, we'll take you down, we have seven ways to Sunday in the
intelligence agencies, and all these articles in Atlantic Monthly in New York are saying,
the deep state's permanent, we're going to remove you, and before Obama left in January
of this year, he said, don't worry, we've had to stay behind groups in government that
are dug in, that are going to block the Trump agenda, and that was in the New York Times,
but they shit their preying on their yuppie audience, knowing that they're lying to them,
knowing and hoping that they haven't gone and researched this, and it's not that Sean
Hannity's even copying me, he's quoting what the globalist have said, so they're in their
news articles calling for their overthrow of Trump in deep state, but then when we say
that's wrong, they go, oh, you're crazy, it doesn't exist, just like the antifa uprisings,
they said they'd have November 4th, doesn't mean that we're wrong when they weren't big
uprisings, they had full page ads, they said it was going to happen, they're failures,
but we're right in reporting what they did, there's also all these calls for violence
against Trump and against conservatives and people being attacked and shot and everything
else, I mean, we know this is going on, but they have this individual, again, engaged
in total fantasy, the perfect beta male, and he pretends that Hannity's throwing a football
at him being mean, and of course you know it's fantasy, but he's mixing it with like
he's being a serious journalist, it's just incredibly deceptive, then he says, masculinity
is a cage, so he's got that doubling down on this whole agenda, where we see fathers
and men being demonized everywhere, and coming up, we've got all the pedophilia being promoted
by YouTube and Google, they've got big sponsors pulling away, big arrest of child traffickers
happening, Catholic Church's caught in more trouble, and the media, Meanwhile's running
headlines saying Trump's crazy, Jones is crazy, there's no pedophiles, and none of them are
being arrested, even though they're being arrested by the thousands a month, and you
see mainstream media being apologists for it saying it isn't a problem, it isn't happening,
it's made up, and Alex Jones needs to be sued to stop him from saying it, and the New York
Times comes out and says, Joe Biden didn't grope in kids on video, shut Alex Jones down,
when we got hours of it, there it is, Trump's mythical crap down on sex trafficking, boy
you read the headlines every day, it's like 100 arrests the last two days, I got a stack
of them right here, Colorado child sex traffickers sentenced to 472 years in prison, top brands
pull YouTube ads over pedophilia fears, Skynish, Google acts as this tasteful survey that
asks users to choose an image of the child they like best for pedophilia behavior, Daily
Mail, you can't make this up, there's an epidemic of it in the Catholic church, an epidemic
at universities, an epidemic in secondary schools and primary schools, there's an epidemic
in government, there's an epidemic in juvenile detention centers, there's an epidemic in
Hollywood, there's an epidemic and people have the courage to go public now, so the
media's spinning it like, oh and men kissing women, a man at a Christmas party trying to
kiss a girl he likes, she says no, that's rape, no that's what mammals do, he keeps
doing it then it is harassment, go to your boss, he grabs you, call the police, but
instead calls for sleeping beauty to be banned because Prince kisses princess with consent,
without consent, because she's in a trance, that's her true love, that's the whole point,
now it's rape, see a prince kissing a princess is now the same thing as pedophilia, there
it is, mother calls for sleeping beauty to be banned from primary school as it promotes
inappropriate behavior, yeah inappropriate behavior as a man and a woman together, that's
what's being targeted here, so I'm gonna start to stop this video with again, talk about
discrimination, everybody that works at Daily Beast, Vox, they even test their blood to
see if their test is too high, then they privily say you've got the test of a woman, they then
celebrate it, and they go masculinity's a cage, ban it, get rid of it, this is a cult folks,
you know a cult cause it's organized, it's focused, it is top down, it is vertically
integrated and it follows sex systems and is obsessed with what language you use and
how you look and they always want to restrict language and then make everybody be freaked
out about the language, so again here they are demonizing Sean Hannity and listen, they
got shows on Discovery Channel and History Channel that attacked me and Comedy Central
and NBC and ABC and CBS, I don't even ever cover those, this is so interesting because
it's such bull, it's such clear lies, everything he says that Hannity's saying is a conspiracy
theory, he's a documented fact, like Hillary when she headed up the State Department did
get authorization for Uranium One, the criminal investigation by Mueller got closed, Mueller
closed the investigation, but he just says it isn't true, that's how amazing these people
are, so let's go ahead and go to this report, here it is.
A very important message tonight, please stop smashing your curing coffee machines.
What the f**k is happening here, why is Sean Hannity the most recognizable face on Fox
News, making his viewers to stop smashing their curings, it's a weird story and it's
what happens when the loudest pro-Trump voice on Fox News decides to go full conspiracy
theorist.
This is news, information and truth, I promise you can't get anywhere else in the media.
If you are lucky enough to not know who s**t is, so what they're saying, what they're
doing here is very simple, when you get hot, when you get on target, when you know what
you're talking about, when you start really discussing the real issues that are happening
in policy papers, instead of just pop news, then the word is conspiracy theorist, created
by the CIA in 1965 as declassified, that term is meant to discredit anybody that's covering
real news or asking questions they don't want to be looked at.
So again, he says if you're lucky enough to not know who he is, here's who he is, just
all kinds of dissension for people that don't have friends, don't have family, they're alone
as Facebook documents show, who were there just desperately wanting to feel like they're
part of a club, part of the cool winning group, well they reach out and watch this guy to
feel like they're part of a club, here he is.
Think of him as Trump's permanent spokesman on Fox News.
President Trump, he's moving very fast to fix the country and keep his promises to you.
He goes on to say this is a lie, conspiracy theory, biggest stock market ever, 1.6 million
new jobs, hundreds of billions of new investment, over a thousand major companies have come
back, jobless numbers, the lowest they've been since 1984, do I have to list all the
accomplishments again, but here they are cheerleading against the economy, trying to imply that
nothing's happened, that we didn't hit 3.1 percent growth rate, something they said
was impossible.
When we come back, we're going to go through this piece as judiciously as I can, but it's
just all lies from a condescending guy who stereotypically looks anorexic with a bunch
of earrings in and then he tells you he doesn't like masculinity.
He declares that that's the enemy, watch, it's coming up.
I point out a lot to our listeners and viewers that without you funding our operation by
purchasing products, and then FullWareStore.com, we would not be here.
We don't have corporate sponsors, we don't have globalist funding, we're funded by
patriots like you, and we also of course provide high quality products to make it easy
to support yourself and to support us symbiotically as we try to retake this country and the planet
and heal the population that's been under globalist engineering.
That said, we're running biggest specials ever, every single year, during Black Friday, and
this year is even better than last year.
We've got free shipping, store-wide on everything, we've got huge sales, like Rainforest 50 percent
off, Pro Pure, Waterfolks 25 percent off, we've got 50 percent off on select high quality
store-able foods, that's unprecedented, we've got super male vitality 50 percent off and
so much more, so check it out today.
Refresh your breath with Imrix Essentials Organic Mouthwash.
Our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing
effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste.
Imrix Essentials Mouthwash is non-GMO certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals or
other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances, or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 bucks water.
Imrix Essentials Mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective, yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
Go organic today with Imrix Essentials.
Visit infowarstore.com to learn more at infowarstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Pure organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Your natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality InfoWars Biome Defense
Probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the InfoWars.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So, we're about to get to this piece of pure lies and total deception that anybody can
research for yourself and just see that it is a giant piece of disinformation lies.
How Trump turned Sean Hannity into a conspiracy theorist.
Why he was the only person in mainstream news that the courage to cover Seth Rich, that
murder being political.
Now Donna Brazils come out and agrees with him.
He was the first guy in mainstream news to cover the left openly plotting in their publications
to overthrow the president, something they admit, but this cook gets up there and says
there's nothing to uranium one, it's all lies, everything.
And then he attacks the fact that Sean Hannity is a toxic male and that it's a cage to be
masculine and pretends that Sean Hannity is physically attacking him acting like he's
throwing a football at him.
And look, I know it's obviously fantasy, but he's mixing it together with reality so he
can make these aggressive false accusations.
So if you want to learn how to be a disinfo cuck who wants to be an alpha, a beta, who
sees strong men as telling the truth as a threat to him, and who wants to pull that
down, who wants to create a society of cucks to rule over men and rule over truth, here
it is.
And I ask you again, how do we let packs of these beta bullies do this to us?
Will we let them conquer us is the question.
Here's Sean Hannity, Trump's permanent spokesman on Fox News.
President Trump, he's moving very fast to fix the country and keep his promises to you,
the American people.
Kind of a running joke at this point.
Trump could nuke the rainforest and Hannity would be like President Trump.
Once again, doubling down on draining the swamp.
That diehard loyalty has made Hannity one of Trump's favorite media personalities again.
They say that kind of loyalty.
They nuke the rainforest, and you can say it's a joke, but they hide behind this thing.
Just like the late night comics, it's all BS.
Trump has been delivering, continue.
You're so great, and I'm very proud of you.
But it's also turned Hannity into cable news's biggest conspiracy theorist, because as Trump's
White House has been hit with bigger and bigger scandals, Hannity's had to turn to wackier
and wackier stories to distract his viewers.
Let's pause again.
He's had to turn to wackier and wackier stories like Seth Rich and Uranium One, which he all
covered first on national TV.
We of course covered it before that, which has all been vindicated, but this is what
they do when you're vindicated.
They come out and create alternate realities and then claim that we're in an alternate
reality.
Hey, dude.
We've all been vindicated.
Let's continue.
Man, I'm doing my job.
Hannity's favorite conspiracy theory is his deep state.
Deep state leaks, a deep state that has been leaking on you.
Trump said it was coming.
He leaked on him, said it was a deep state.
It's all come out to be true.
It's all turned out Obama did it, turned out Obama was spying on him.
All vindicated, vindicated, vindicated, vindicated.
But you can't stand that.
So the whole thing is about going after his sponsors so they can show this video to
adult sponsors and go, oh, look, the young trendy with no viewers, you know, just attacked
Hannity, we better dump our advertising.
That's all this is.
In fact, they even admit that later.
They say, we've tried to shut down all of Showns, but it hasn't worked because he sells
his own products, but don't worry, they're trying to shut those down too.
So let's continue.
Here it is.
Urban agents are secretly conspiring.
All right, pause.
Back that up.
10 seconds.
Even Politico, your own God, because it's Cruz putting articles over this for radio
listeners, says the deep state's real.
See, you've lost the fight.
World government's real, deep state's real, fluoride causing brain tumors and bone tumors
is real.
Lower ITUs is real.
You don't get it.
CNN and everybody knows they've lost the fight.
So Politico and CNN have to admit, I'm right now about fluoride, about world government.
You're a rearguard action with the trendies who are all addicted to soy lattes and wonder
why they're so depressed, soy boys.
And this is a soy boy rearguard action.
You know how Hitler had the Hitler Youth Rearguard Action?
They sent out their little kids to fight the Russians and the U.S. and the allies.
This is their rearguard action, literally.
How weird is this in bizarro world?
Their rearguard action is soy boy.
Let's continue.
The deep state, deep state leaks, deep state that has been leaking on you.
The beliefs that government agents are secretly conspiring to sabotage Trump and remove him
from office.
An unelected part of your government looking to overturn the results of a duly elected president.
They tried to block the primary.
They tried to block him being seated with the electors.
They tried to block him on inauguration day.
They physically tried to block me for three hours getting in to see the inauguration.
Then said nobody was there.
They've had congressional hearings.
There's the Hill admitting that they unmasked Trump and were listening and watching him.
There it is.
Manafort Wiretap shows deep state is real and dangerous.
The Hill.
What's vindicated am I?
You see, meanwhile Congress says shut me down, shut off info wars.
Let's continue.
Let's go back to the best the deep state can dish up, beta boy.
Here he is.
Long been a talking point for conspiracy theorists like Alex Jones.
We're in a war with the deep state.
But Hannity has brought it mainstream.
They're planning a hot coup.
The soft coup is the buildup.
A soft coup is underway.
They're a clear and present danger running around inside our country.
And what is becoming now a clear and present danger?
Now Sean Hannity has said what I've been warning you of word for word.
Hannity has also been a major voter.
See, this was their major miscalculation.
They thought branding Trump with me would hurt Trump.
Trump knew that I was only teaching what his dad taught and what he knew before I was born.
And it was now time for America to come back.
And they knew that branding Trump with info wars was what they were looking for, was all
done very strategically, fools.
We sat around and discuss it before we did it, Dumbo, looking into the future.
As great men do, we saw what cucks would do later.
And you still think branding Trump with me is hurting him.
It's not.
It's the magic secret sauce.
They actually think having co-bear and all these idiots get up on TV and lie about me
hurts me.
They're universally hated by thinking people.
All it does is validate what we've done and what we stand for.
Even the New Yorker magazine says it's useless.
It's not hurting.
It doesn't work anymore.
Why did they're getting rid of Charlie Rose and everybody they knew about his sexual
harassment?
They're doing it because it didn't work.
That's why the media fought so hard to get rid of Trump the last year because they had
to prove that they were valid.
They had to prove they had teeth.
They had to prove they were an attack dog that could get the job done.
Well, guess what?
We didn't just stomp that dog down.
We killed that dog.
So you got that and I know you got your stay behind networks and you got stuff in the
works.
Things going to shut us down.
It's going to make us bigger because the sweeping giant is awake because the big dog
just got off the porch.
Move over a skinny dog because the fat dog's moving in.
It's called prosperity.
Let's continue back with the video.
The Uranium One story.
The corrupt Uranium One deal.
It's a conspiracy theory that claims Hillary Clinton helps sell Uranium to the Russians.
That's all they've got.
She did help do it.
Mueller brought it on the tarmac.
It was totally illegal.
She was at the State Department and got waivers for it.
But he has that one word and then he dresses like a clown who's anorexic.
So if you're anorexic clown that goes like this all the time, then you've got to be
listening.
Here, let's go back to it.
In exchange for donations to the Clinton Foundation.
It's a bad theory that's been debunked repeatedly, including by Fox News.
The accusation is predicated on the charge that's...
Oh, it's on Shep Smith, the in-house globalist Lemmy Winks of Fox News.
Lemmy Winks, the brave gerbil that was willing to burrow into Fox News.
The bravest attention of our times, Shepard Lemmy Winks Smith.
All right.
I'm going to come back and play the rest and I'm going to give a number to all of the
news and Black Friday videos and the George Soros and just all the rest of it briefly.
At the end of the video, they go, the answer is shutting down Sean Hannity sponsors.
You've got to get Sean Hannity off the air and he goes, you know, that's why we've taken
all of Alex Shones as sponsors.
That's why he's got to sell debunked male vitality pills.
Oh, yeah.
That's why on third-party sites, they've got 6,000, 7,000, 10,000 reviews saying unbelievable.
I mean, in my 40-year checkup, the doctor said, you got any problems in the bedroom?
I said, no.
He said, hey, how about some agra?
How about some Seattleists?
We just give it to everybody at 40.
Just try it.
You know, the doctors push that stuff.
I said, sure.
I'll try it.
Well, the agra made me see blue and didn't really change anything.
And the Seattleists made me more excited more times a day.
Okay.
I'm just telling you.
Me personally, super male vitality or things like anthroplex, Lordy, Lordy, Lordy, Lordy,
Lordy, Lordy.
Yeah.
91% reviews on third-party sites.
Yeah.
50% off right now on a bunch of our best-selling products and free shipping Black Friday specials,
25% off on water filtration.
You name it.
So much more.
But X2 is a super miller about stamina and energy.
Labito is a side effect.
We'll be right back.
Hour number two.
Vitamin mineral fusion.
Visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemistry.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great-tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of a
central vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield X2, super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products, and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean.
That means it's pure.
And rest-secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times
of the day whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used, and
we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products
to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones, coming to you live from the front lines of
the Infowar.
So, I got so much news.
Why am I spending several segments on this?
It's because it's so formulaic.
You've got somebody trying to look trendy who looks like an emaciated culture war victim,
a soy addict.
We've tracked these people.
They all on their own pages say, I drink soy, I concentrate soy, I love soy, I'm addicted
to soy.
They're addicted to literal female hormones and he even announces he's against masculinity
at the end of it.
And he's lying about Sean Hannity, pillar to post.
He doesn't want me to exist.
He doesn't want you to exist.
He wants cultural dominance and he can't believe he doesn't have it.
So, he's got to lie about Hannity and say, Hannity's lying.
The economy's not doing well.
There's no Uranium One scandal.
There's nothing going on, on and on and on.
And then he just tattles on Hannity's sponsors as part of the arrested development and then
just hopes they can get rid of him.
Hey, Fox already tried to have a purge.
They lost half their revenue.
They lost half their viewers.
Now they're going back to patriot, even more hardcore and their ratings are coming back
up.
So, little news flash, you lost the election.
You failed.
You've thrown everything you can at myself and everybody else and the audience sees through
it and is rallying behind us and you are failing, Lord Cuck, King of the Cucks, you
are failing.
Let's continue with Cuck, Lord.
The accusation is predicated on the charge that Secretary Clinton approved the sale.
She did not.
But that hasn't stopped Hannity from- She did not.
According to one study, Hannity spent three and a half hours on the story over the course
of three weeks.
If you're ever standing- By the way, let me pause again.
I mean, it's all over the illegal servers and the illegally emails we've got, not to
mention the 35,000 missing, that they would have emails.
I gave you a million dollars.
Okay, you get the meeting next week.
Well, I want another meeting.
We'll give another million.
I mean, it's blatantly illegal.
She thought she'd get into office to cover her butt with executive immunity.
It didn't happen.
You just closed your foundation.
You're collapsing.
And you leave this rearguard action here.
You leave the lights on to make folks think you haven't run off down the back road.
And you leave this Cuck again as your scorched earth.
Let's continue.
This is probably time to reevaluate your life choices.
There's a ton of other Hannity conspiracy theories.
The Clinton email stuff, these are very serious crimes, saying James Comey should be arrested,
Comey's possible criminal conduct, accusing Robert Mueller of trying to protect Hillary
Clinton.
He shut it down.
There's no way the American people can trust.
This is all true.
To investigate anything Russian-related.
Throw up, man.
Hannity is now the leading conspiracy theorist on cable news, and there's data to prove it.
My name is Alvin Chang.
I'm a senior reporter.
I'll hit pause.
It's always about how they're into science.
Oh, look, keywords like Seth Rich in Deep State, Hannity said it the most of anybody on TV.
So that scientifically proves it's a conspiracy theory because he's the one trailblazing on
mainstream news covering topics that are now being proven to be correct.
It's like saying, I covered Jones covers webcams watching you the most in 20 years.
But was I right about webcams watching you?
But because he covered them the most, it shows he's the most wrong.
Jones covered the fact that Trump was going to be president the most.
Our computer analysis shows that he said that the most.
And he is the president.
But again, they play these little scientific games that kind of like, wow, the little latte
addicts, the little soy addicts sitting in their mommy's basements that Hillary talked
about in WikiLeaks, how much she hated men living in their mommy's basements.
Here, let's go.
Let's go back to this.
I'm interested in how Sean Hannity used conspiracy theory on it.
Why is every one of the guys on any liberal media like, hello, I'm here, I'm a scientist.
Are you impressed with me?
I did a computer program.
I mean, can we have any men?
Can we have any men on any of these shows that are able to talk?
Any of them?
I mean, where do they all go?
Do you have to like try to call?
Can I get a job with you and probably work for free like you do?
And I went like, hello, everybody, I'm Alex Jones.
I did a scientific report here.
And I heard the mainstream media said conspiracy theorists, trillions of times, does that make
it true?
We'll be right back, see what we mean.
America is an information-based civil war.
That's why now more than ever, we've got to hit the streets of America and let these
globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bully.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counterculture.
The real punk rock is being a patriot whose pro-America, pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom,
who at the same time is tolerant.
Modern liberalism is a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism.
They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote
freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as
well as more Patriot Feral at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
So, they've got shows on Comedy Central, three of them at least, that attack me every week
or every weeknight, like The Opposition, I've only watched it one time, and I'm told every
day they're attacking us, I don't even cover it, it doesn't even matter.
But AV Club, along with Vox, has come up with some super deceptive sludge.
So my point is, I don't cover the big national news shows that attack us, even when Colbert
does a lot now.
I don't cover it, because we have a bigger audience than they do.
Our audience is sick of hearing about them, but looking at the next wave of bottom feeders
like this guy, I'm finishing up with this and getting into other news, is just incredible
where they say, Sean Hannity's a liar, the economy's not doing well, Sean Hannity's
a liar, there's no uranium.
One scandal, Sean Hannity's a liar, the Clinton Foundation didn't do anything, Hillary's
email server wasn't illegal, it was admitted to be illegal.
The deep state doesn't exist, Chuck E. Schumer never said, the deep state's gonna get you.
And then they cut to another guy, I mean why do all the men on the report like, they all
do this little fake look where they try to act confidently, they're like, and they again
all talk like, yes, I mean gosh, look at this Sean Hannity, this toxic male, it's a caged
Sean, come out of that, Sean Hannity's copying Alan Jones, oh my gosh, he's gonna kick off
the radio, what is Fox gonna do, everyone let's tattle, let's tattle, he's talking about
Seth Rich saying it might have been a political murder, of course he's been totally validated
as Info Wars has been, now that Dona Brazell has come out, but this has been in response
to all that, they just go on in their alternate reality claiming we're in an alternate reality.
Listen here, I'm the one that predicted Trump was gonna win, I expose the fake polls, and
I expose basically everything else, and the McMaster news two months ago, bottom bad mouth
in trouble at that dinner party, and the JFK files and everything else, I put it all out,
so you've got a big problem, and again they think when I attack them, I'm attacking them
because they're big and powerful and effective, AV Club had some other thing they wrote about
last week with some horrible actor kid with the worst writing I've ever heard, and we
made fun of it, and so they ran headlines, Jones is really upset by this, Jones is really
on his knees because this 10 year old kid is doing a spoof of him, let me explain something,
I love people spoofing us, I love memes, I love being made fun of, I love it, that's
how we get the young audience, it's how we grow, it's been your biggest miscalculation,
but you are so arrogant that you still haven't figured out that when I tell you I love being
attacked, you think you're Machiavelli and that's me trying to trick you to stop attacking,
it's you people really are stupid, just because your robber baron grandparents took over the
world and then now kind of put you in charge, it's like watching morons rearrange deck chairs
on the Titanic, don't you understand that your losers, your pathetic, that the Facebook
documents say we want beta males alone by themselves desperate and scared that we control
with fake bots and fake communities, and we want the women the same, and we want women
to look like men, and men to look like women to confuse the sexes, to absolutely break
up the order of the sexes of mammal operations so we can come in and end the family as you
know it and overwrite it with a corporate takeover and that's the plan and it's declassified
and then you have the very victims of it up here calling for Sean Hannity to be taken
off the air because he's a liar and the whole thing is an exercise in just a pathetic jibbering
person reading off a teleprompter pretending like he's in a fight with Sean Hannity and
Sean Hannity's trying to assault him for the childlike minds watching it to have a simulated
victory because they want a simulated victory because they don't live in the real world
and Hillary was in the WikiLeaks saying that about the emasculated men living in their
mother's basements drinking soy milk, she said that about you word for word because
she's part of the program that did it to you, let's continue.
My name is Alvin Chang, I'm a senior reporter at Fox.
I was interested in how Sean Hannity used conspiracy theories on his Fox News show.
I went to Reddit's conspiracy forum and I wrote a computer program to get the top 1,000
posts.
I categorized what the conspiracies were about and I came up with this.
This is the OCD power trip too.
I went to Reddit that puts it all in its own digital get out and calls a conspiracy if
you question official lies and then I calculated it all on a computer to have numbers which
made me feel powerful over it so I could then show you numbers I had to show how bad Hannity
is that he kept saying that Seth Rich was probably politically murdered which is now
basically being confirmed or that Uranium One that's admitted has been confirmed or
that deep states that's all been confirmed or illegal spying on Trump or illegal leaking
that's all been confirmed.
What do we do when info works is so untarget and has all these sorts and now Sean Hannity
is mainlining it?
Well, we just have a nerd that appeared in Act All Powerful in an appeal to authority
so all the other nerds who are into seeing like old vintage equipment behind me, that's
my call to authority, they all think I'm God now.
Let's go back to it.
I came up with about 100 different conspiracies that I could search for.
Seeing in fake, that's a meme we launched.
Clinton Foundation, that just doesn't even exist, that's a conspiracy.
WikiLeaks, that isn't even real.
Assange isn't real, Madonna Brazil isn't real, Uranium One isn't real, look, they're
telling you Clinton and the Uranium scandal isn't real, deep state isn't real, this is
on screen, Clinton collusion isn't real, CNN and fake news isn't real, Clinton corruption
isn't real.
How about Clinton Bad Health, that isn't real too, right?
All coming out.
Clinton Foundation, WikiLeaks, Assange, I mean, sky's blue, isn't real, we're nerds,
we drink soy, we don't like you, we are God, do what we say, let's continue.
Transcripts, when we looked at the data, it turns out Hannity, far and away, makes the
most accurate theories more than every other news person.
And that guy is wide marching.
Don't think this is a coincidence.
Hannity's not just a typical right wing pundit anymore, he's moving into Alex Jones territory
and unsurprisingly, Jones has noticed too.
I love it, let's show Hannity shows now the Alex Jones show.
But unlike Alex Jones, who uses conspiracy theories to sell survival gear and bogus male
supplements.
Pause again.
No, we sell survival gear and high quality verified supplements because we're funding
this mission to defeat you.
See, revolutionaries raise money to overthrow the tyranny, not to have the money.
If I wanted the money, I'd have joined the establishment, dumbass, let's continue.
Ultimate male vitality supplement.
That was a satire piece we did, but notice they hide behind satire, back it up 10 seconds.
They hide behind satire to put out their lies.
Then they show our admitted satire while I fly through the ceiling to then say we're
fake.
So see, they use satire to act like they're real.
We use satire to illustrate things to be funny.
And they jump back and forth with total intellectually bankrupt fraud against their victim viewers.
Let's continue.
We have developed ultimate male vitality supplement.
Kennedy uses conspiracy theories to protect Trump, to distract away from stories that
damage the White House.
I charted it out when he brings these up over time, and it seemed like conspiracy theories
were mentioned most when Trump was going through some kind of scandal.
None of that is related to President Trump.
None of it.
Zero is related to his campaign.
That's right, the Manafort deal, none of it is connected.
It's from 10 years ago.
The Podestas are involved in some of the same stuff.
Probably isn't even illegal.
It's some filing.
He paid the taxes.
Again.
Then they never give you substance of what they're talking about.
They just say it's a lie.
Let's continue.
Kennedy mentioned conspiracy theories in those times.
They're spiked.
And they're related to the news of the day.
They're related to the scandals that the Trump administration is going through.
Fox's best defense of this stuff is that Kennedy isn't a real journalist.
He's an opinion host, so what he says doesn't really matter.
But that distinction between news and opinion is rarely clear on Fox.
Look at the way Kennedy introduces these segments.
We're going to come back and finish up.
Notice how they're doing satire, but acting like they're real.
When Kennedy is real, they're saying he isn't real.
Then they use him saying, well, I wear the hat of a pundit, but also a journalist.
And they go, oh, look, he isn't a journalist.
Playing games.
This is the anatomy of deception.
I'm spending so much time on this, not because it's important by itself, but together it's
a great educational tool to understand the anatomy of con artists.
Katie Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market.
And we've succeeded with the release of our CQB technology.
We now offer the most comfortable, concealable rifle threat body armor available.
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Use your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at catiarmor.com.
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for
some unique holiday gift ideas.
That's slingbow.com, where we have some innovative new products for the archer, hunter, or bow
fishing enthusiast in your family.
Now through January, use the promo code holiday to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada.
And from all of us at slingbow industries, have a safe, joyous, and peaceful holiday season.
ID stronghold wallets are different.
They may look the same on the outside.
They're stylish.
They'll hold your cards in cash, but they're hiding something great on the inside.
No, there are no pyrotechnics, and it doesn't sing when you open it, but it does have magic
and magical powers.
ID stronghold wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves standing
right next to you.
Protect your family this holiday season with affordable leather ID stronghold wallets and
purses.
Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your information just by walking
past you.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID badge.
ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology over 12 years ago.
Explore your identity and save 10% by using coupon code present for a limited time at
IDstronghold.com.
That's coupon code present, also available at Walmart.com, eBay, Amazon, or QVC.
IDstronghold.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful
to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff you said, there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing the parasite plans at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday, Living Defense, infowarslives.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslives.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
I'm driving home here, about to take off for a few days for Thanksgiving.
And I just want to impart my message to the listeners and viewers of how much I appreciate
you and how thankful I am.
And I also just want to re-emphasize the point that if you weren't there taking action, and
if you weren't there spreading the word, globalism would have completely taken over not just
this country but other nations.
And globalism is a completely anti-individual, anti-God, anti-family, anti-Christian cancer
that is just pure power-cult will to dominate and control society.
And that we have come so far with God's help and have turned the tide, but the enemy's
tracking back.
So just please, we should all be so thankful to God and thankful to each other for taking
action.
But also, girt ourselves and get ready for the next big fight ahead because history is
happening.
So for myself and my family, God bless you all, have a great Thanksgiving.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Yeah, and we know that Vox, whatever that is, just constantly puts out the weirdest fiction
about me.
By the way, they're now reporting, thank God, no shots fired in London, I guess the wicked
flee when done pursues, just a mass hysteria.
Now continuing, ladies and gentlemen, just finishing up with this and I'm going to give
the number out and take your calls.
We do have some guests coming up with breaking news and a bunch of news I haven't gotten
to yet, I don't normally spend four or five segments on one seven and a half minute video.
It's just such lies that they say the Clinton Foundation is a conspiracy theory, just the
foundation itself.
So let's go ahead and finish up here it is between news and opinion is rarely clear on
Fox.
I have soft hands, more importantly, advertisers don't care about that distinction.
Who conspiracy theories in particular have spooked Hannity's advertisers in May, Hannity
started peddling the story that former DNC staffer Seth Rich was murdered after leaking
emails from the DNC.
I thought there was more to that video.
I watched it this morning, I guess we don't have the end of it, let's redownload it because
one way or another, we're going to air it today.
Oh no, there's an exciting conclusion, it's like seven and a half minutes long going after
his sponsors shutting him down, how they've tried to shut me down, but how we sell our
own products so they're unable to do it, so now they're going after the products.
It's no big deal, we download a lot of videos, but I've never made such a big deal out of
a video as I am today, I'm just on this long riffing jazz style rant on that subject so
we will redownload it or we'll live stream it, we'll just spend the rest of the show
on this one video.
But getting back to this deception, it shows you their entire game plan and what they're
about and what they're doing and how they lie and where they come from to sit there
and say, Sean Hannity's bad for covering Seth Rich and that it's a conspiracy theory
to say maybe he was killed for political reasons, here's some news articles right here, vindicating
what we first reported on, what he reported on, what others reported on, Donna Brazil
reveals paranoia over Russian spying on her, snipers peering through her window, that's
how the media spun it, Donna Brazil says she feared for her life after Seth Rich was
killed.
All Hannity said was we should investigate it, he was the head IT guy over the emails,
he had a bunch of foreigners working in there from Pakistan over the servers, you had them
ordering the Democrats via the Attorney General Loretta Lynch, the FBI and J. Johnson at Homeland
Security not to get into the DMC computers 22 times, you had the long history of the
dead bodies, the string out behind the Clintons, but their answer is to tell everybody that
it doesn't exist, to simply put it doesn't exist.
But you know, since they're demonizing us for selling products, I just want to remind
the listeners that they've kicked us off Google ads, they've kicked us off ad roll, they've
kicked us off all sorts of platforms and they've tried to shut us down and it is an act of
defiance for real, you can't buy products anywhere that are going to hurt the globalist
as bad as doing it here.
And we also sell high quality products at very, very affordable prices.
So there's really no brainer when it comes to this, it is a total 360 win.
So I just want to encourage all the listeners today on Black Friday to take advantage undoubtedly
of one of the best sales we've done in the last several years, 67% off on high quality
colloidal silver with all of its great uses, 50% off on brain force, our best selling product
that's now back in stock for a limited time, that's unprecedented.
We have limited edition fascism, anti-fascism, anti-communist shirt that will no longer be
sold as soon as it sells out, we've got just a few days left of that, 50% off the good
halogen X2, the opposite of fluoride in the body, absolutely critical, that's 50% off,
that has a 98% review level.
Ladies and gentlemen, out of 5,929 reviews on power reviews, it is our highest reviewed
product.
Nobody else has the deep earth crystal source iodine that we have an X2, again the thyroid
fills up with the bad, the bad iodine that can be radioactive, it fills up with the other
bad halogens, it fills up with the bromide, the bromine, the fluoride, the chlorine and
a bunch of others, but if it has the good iodine, it doesn't, and it's such a game-changer,
but it can have big effects on you if your thyroid was already out of shape, so be sure
and consult a physician before you do it, but if you search engine, IQs went up 15 points
after the feds started putting a little bit of a, not very good form, but still better
than nothing iodine into the salt, in the 30s, they stopped it in the 70s, IQs went
up 15 points on average when they did that, so that's just an example of how you die without
vitamin C, but that's all over the place.
Iodine is a lot rarer in the environment, and through iodine that isn't already bound,
that you can actually absorb, through atomic iodine, that just means pure iodine, that
is absolutely critical, you know, when they tested a bunch of our products trying to find
impurities in the first big round and found no impurities, they got really upset, it was
an easy prediction of what would happen after that, you know, if they failed, these type
of folks, what would they do when they tested our products and found nothing wrong, and
they said, this is very strange, they said, are the spectrometers in the lab we use, so
this is just iodine, it's not potassium, it's not sodium, it's just iodine, they didn't
know what a profound statement that was, how hard we worked, they were telling you 999999,
that you have to get DEA approval on, you have to keep in a locked facility because
of what you can use pure iodine for in processing, but under law they can't keep you from getting
in if you've got a legitimate source for the reason you're selling it, we had to get DEA
approval five years ago to even be able to have this, the iodine we have, you put it
out in the open air, turns purple and like I dream of genie and turns into purple gas,
we've got video of that, so again ladies and gentlemen, true iodine, atomic iodine, not
some frutty downgraded mixed bound form, the true deep earth crystal, infowarstore.com,
50% off, and it's how you help fund this operation, they've been trying to shut us down so hard
as you know, when you financially support us it just moves worlds, and it just flies
in the face of everything you're trying and really helps with my concern and my anxiety
to complete the mission, I don't have anxiety about my physical safety or even being financially
defeated, I just don't want them to win, and when you get products you need, water filtration,
non-GMO heirloom seeds, air filtration system, supplements, books, videos, t-shirts, at infowarstore.com
you change the world using what's left of our free market to vote with your dollars,
so get products you need today and help fund the revolution against the globalist today
at infowarstore.com, we'll be back.
It's a no brainer, a big burky water filter is the one you need, period, you need a water
filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors, pesticides,
bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only 2 cents per gallon, get the original most trusted name in gravity
water filtration, Big Burky, and now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using
code GCN, call or click 1-877-99-Burky or bigburkywaterfilters.com that's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years someone has finally come
up with a better way, the bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt
as ammunition, non-toxic and no batteries required, so much fun, you'll forget you have
a wife and kids, $39.95 and free economy shipping, use discount code GCN and get an extra 10%
off your purchase at bugassault.com, makes the perfect stocking stuffer, get your bug
assault today. Men, give your body the support it needs
with InfoWars Life Prostigar. It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper
prostate balance. InfoWars Life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only
the highest quality out there, but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give
your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend. The Prostigar formula
does just that with its mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give
your body total support. It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols,
zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper. Prostigar is something that the men on the InfoWars
crew take every day and from our research, it's something that men should really be adding
to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels. Now's the time
to start naturally supporting your body. Get Prostigar on your side today, exclusively
at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
America is an information-based civil war. That's why now, more than ever, we've got
to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down
from their bullying. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe
dictatorship. Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate
is truly the counterculture. The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America,
pro-capitalism and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is
a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more
than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot
Feral at InfoWarsStore.com. Be part of the Second American Revolution at InfoWarsStore.com.
I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally, societally, economically,
spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top of giant time bomb with populations
and globalism and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds. Things are getting crazy.
We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet. We've also got to have rear-guard
actions to be prepared. The number one thing, I forget to rhyme with God, is to have high-quality
storeable food. Well, the entire line of my Patriot supply foods, private-labeled as
InfoWars Select, is now 50% off. We've only done that one time before previously. 50%
off. You cannot beat that. And we're only doing that through Cyber Monday. So it starts
today on Thanksgiving and runs through next Monday. InfoWarsStore.com. You can go right
there. It's the full spectrum of my Patriot. It's private-labeled by us, totally fresh,
less 25 years, 50% off. 50% off. Take action today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups. You want to stop tyranny? Well,
so does he. Live from the InfoWars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Okay, I rarely spend an hour. And I've spent an hour now, from the middle of the last hour
to now, getting into this box video piece, because I can take a minute of video and stop
it 10 times when it's full of lies, to cover each lie. This one is such a deception that
it just makes my head spin. And you tie it in with the congressional reports where they
want to shut InfoWars down, and they really let you know their model here, where they're
like, well, Hannity's got sponsors. You know, we got rid of Jones' sponsors, but now he
sells his own product. So what do we do? Well, we know what you've been doing. And it just
shows what horrible mercenaries these individuals are and how hell-bent they are on trying to
defeat this country. But here's the good news. Without me even looking, I've got stacks of
news articles. NFL Rating Slide is getting worse with no end in sight. Just since three
years ago, they've lost over 50% of their viewers. They are now the most unpopular sport in America
in pulse of the national sports. It has the worst favorability rating. Don't you get it?
Everything you touch turns to crud. America and the world is awake. We're never going
back. We're never giving in. And we know your secret. You've got our kids in the schools.
I'm getting to that next. And you think you're going to brainwash them, but every study shows
Generation Z is the most libertarian Americana conservative generation in over 100 years.
Don't you know that some of the little too extreme Christian stuff to kids made them
rebel and turn into devil worshipers? What's going to happen when the devil worshipers
try to make the kids devil worshipers? It's going to make them be Christians. And all
the polls show that young people are pro life, 75%. They're anti globalist. They love the
show and I'm not bragging. It is humbling when I go to another school function to pick
up one of my daughters at somebody else's school, not just the school they go to and
the young people from ages eight to like 15, just point and go, it's Alex Jones. All of
them want photos. I get mobbed everywhere by young people. I was at a P Terry's hamburger
place about a month ago and I literally could not eat my food. It was like I was Elvis Presley.
People were like, oh, it's incredible. And then more groups were coming in of high schoolers
and I was mobbed and couldn't eat. And there were leftist in there. Nobody was in there
when I first walked in except five high schoolers and they all shook my hand and got photos.
I got my food, went to sit down after work. I was hungry at like five o'clock. I was going
to eat a second dinner. Mama was making it like eight o'clock. I go in, shake their
hand, take photos, go sit down. So he left us talking crap about me. The whole family
had been run over by a truck, but they were the elitists. There he is laughing at me all.
I even heard him go, look, he's alone. You don't have any family. That's the thing they
always say. They were all celebrating on Twitter. Look, he's alone on Thanksgiving wasn't even
trills with all my children. It doesn't matter to them. It's like a weird because that's who
they are. They want to project their loneliness on me. I'm not happy. They've been atomized
and made alone. Makes me sad, but it shows their mindset to celebrate that. Oh, look,
he's a loser like us. And all of a sudden, just the whole place just got filled with
like 20 high schoolers and they were, they were, they were Asian and they were Indian
and they were white and they were, they were waspy because it was, you know, upper middle
class area and they were Alex Jones. We love you. We love this. We love that. We were watching
today. We were watching yesterday. Oh, it's awesome. Everybody loves you. Oh, come speak
at my school. Click, click, click photo, photo. Okay. That group more came in this time about
your girls. They run over and I'm just like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. And the leftist all
got up and they left and walked by on the guy, walked by me like he was going to bump
into me. He had plenty of room and he was just because he understands, dude, you're
not cool. This thing from Vox, this isn't cool. I'm not trying to be cool. I want freedom.
I'm real. People know that. That's what's cool. The victory is cool. Turning the world
around is cool. Believing in humanity is cool. Believing in our young people is cool. Not
trying to turn them into wasteland, you know, globalists in a deindustrialized country.
That's what's cool. And that's what upsets you because you're losing your grip. So you
try to tighten it harder and just like a beaten woman, we're out of your life. So now they're
shifting to pure culture war to cover up from the real crimes they're committing. We'll
get to that in a moment, but let's finish up with a piece. Here it is. In May, Hannity
started peddling the story that former DNC staffer, Seth Rich, was murdered after leaking
emails from the DNC to WikiLeaks. Now, if true, this could become one of the biggest
scandals in American history and could mean that Rich could have been murdered under very
suspicious. I created a pants on fire, snopes debunked it. Even Fox News retracted its article
about it, but Hannity continued spending segment after segment suggesting that Clinton operatives
were somehow involved in Rich's murder. If this is true, this blows the whole Russian
collusion narrative completely out of the water. It got so bad that Rich's brother
begs Hannity's executive producer to stop him. Okay, let's stop right there. Let's stop
right there. Since then, this whole coverups collapsed. Since this all happened. This is
the one story they're trying to say is fake. Dona Brazil's come out and said they think
he was politically murdered. There's been all this intrigue now inside that office and
people fleeing the country and people getting indicted and all the rest of it. So since
Dona Brazil came out, they came out to make it look like he's the big loser. And hidden
in the story is this one thing that they don't want you to look at Seth Rich or how he was
upset that the election was stolen from Bernie Sanders. They don't want Democrats to look
at that because they know that that wakes Democrats up to what happened. So they have CNN saying,
oh, please stop. The family first said we've hired a detective. The family first said we
think there may be something suspicious. Once the PR firms, everybody swooped in, they changed
their story. That's fine. We're sorry for your loss. We as citizens have a right. WikiLeaks
said he was probably their source. They won't say, we're going to look at this. But the
point is, does it just credit Hannity when a high level Democrat operative over IT gets
shot in the back repeatedly and nothing's stolen? And then it turns out Dona Brazil
is concerned. Doesn't that vindicate Hannity? But is it a conspiracy theory to ask questions?
Let's continue.
To not cause a grieving family more pain and suffering. And I am not backing off asking
questions even though there is an effort that nobody talked about Seth Rich. Major advertisers
like cars.com pulled their ads from Hannity's show and eventually Hannity back down out
of respect for the family's wishes for now. I am not discussing this matter at this time.
But on Twitter, he promised he'd keep looking into it, saying, I am closer to the truth
than ever. Not only am I not stopping, I am working harder. A few months later, Hannity
spooked advertisers again. When Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, who Trump endorsed, was
accused of multiple cases of sexual misconduct, you catch that lie? Trump did not endorse
Moore. He endorsed Luther Strange. Now he's come out and said, we've seen lies about me.
We haven't seen proof on Moore. So till we see proof, he's not bad. Wow. Innocent will
prove him guilty. Classic Americana. But you catch that last little lie? So many lies coming
so fast. Trump endorsed Moore. No, he didn't. It was a big scandal. He endorsed Luther
Strange, liar. Here it is.
How do we ascertain what happened 38 years ago? None of us know the truth of what happened
38 years ago. Do people do it for money? Do they do a political reason? Is that more common
than people would think? Oh, definitely. They will lie to make money. Folks, there are at
least five women I know of in the last 10 years on YouTube saying, I was married to
them and had kids with them. And then my name was all sorts of weird stuff. And people
asked me, I've had lawyers. I mean, I mean, I've been asked in depositions of somebody's
my wife, who I've never seen or known. I know for a fact, the media has gone and talked
to those people, but decided they're so stark, raving loon, they don't even put it out. Put
it out. I'm not scared of wherever you make up. The point is in a climate of making stuff
up, you've got to start questioning. But the whole thing's about getting rid of a sponsor.
Here it is.
This is a wave of advertiser panic, including from Keurig, which pulled its ads from Hannity
Show. And this time, Hannity lashed out. He retweeted a video of one of his supporters
smashing their Keurig machines, tweeted a 2015 article about Keurig being covered in
mold and suggesting he'd give free coffee makers to the best videos he can.
Yeah, strike back.
They're smashing their Keurig. Eventually, Hannity backed down again.
Please stop destroying your coffee machines. But not before advertisers like Volvo and
realtor.com suggested they might pull their ads too. Everything about this story is so
unfair.
Now, they backed off. He won.
Masculinity is a cage. Fox knows what it is.
Masculinity is a cage.
They care about their rights.
He attacks me next. We're done with this idiot. We'll be back.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars, biome defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality, known probiotics
that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and decoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Support your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public.
So please take advantage of it today. Support your own health and support the info war.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting
edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids. One of them is a powerful
pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolife advanced restoration. And we also have an every day extremely affordable
fluorolife every day maintenance. But all of these are the very cutting edge top of the
line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price. That is my goal
here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price. When you purchase it at infowarstore.com
you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic
and freedom worldwide. I'm driving home here about to take off a few days for Thanksgiving.
And I just want to impart my message to the listeners and viewers of how much I appreciate
you and how thankful I am. And I also just want to reemphasize the point that if you
weren't there taking action and if you weren't there spreading the word, globalism would
have completely taken over not just this country but other nations. And globalism is a completely
anti individual, anti God, anti family, anti Christian cancer that is just pure
power cult will to dominate and control society. And that we have come so far with God's help
and have turned the tide but the enemy is tracking back. So just please we should all be so thankful
to God and thankful to each other for taking action but also girt ourselves and get ready for the
next big fight ahead because history is happening. So for myself and my family I bless you all have
a great Thanksgiving. Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with Emmerich's Essentials.
We are proud to bring you a collection of organic based household products at infowarstore.com
including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, deat free herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint
mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant.
Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body. We carefully
select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that are certified USDA made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials. Start saving money and stop exposing yourself
and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarstore.com and learn more about the new
Emmerich's Essentials line of organic products. That's infowarstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You want answers? Well, so does he. Live from the info wars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
And we are go ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for joining us. Coming up the fourth hour,
Mike Sernovich that broke the John Conyers sexual harassment, shipping women in on taxpayer money,
you name it. He broke that story exclusively this week.
Maystere Media was forced to give them the credit to their great harm.
He'll be hosting the fourth hour. I'll host part of that with him. Laura Loomer,
who received the full tape of Joe Barton, the Texas congressman, sitting a sexually
explicit video to a woman. She got the video. We only showed that we had the video. We didn't show
the video. We only showed his face to show that we had the video to bring attention to it to say
that I believed it was revenge porn if it was truly a consensual event and that they're conflating
consensual activity or men and women kissing or men and women engaging in sexual activity
as the feminist teach on colleges as rape. That's why it's on info wars.com. They're
calling for sleeping beauty to be banned because the prince kisses the princess without her consent.
The whole point of is that he was the love that was supposed to be coming and only the true love,
someone that she'd already seen and thought was handsome that could basically save her.
But now a good wholesome fairy tale is now bad and needs to be banned and radical Muslims
need to be shipped in in mass who cut women's genitals off and throw gays off buildings and
blow up every church they get their hands on. In fact, today we've got a huge breaking news.
Egypt 200 plus dead as mass attackers gunned down fleeing worshippers.
235 people on the list is growing. Meanwhile, a Nigerian bombing 50 killed in early morning
attack on the mosque by Boko Haram, which means no one can teach the teachings of the west. Wow.
That's like the teachings of Soros and the globalist. No one are their ally with Muslims
with the radical Islamists. The teachings of the west are forbidden.
True equality, true open society, true tolerance. And then speaking of the cult, this is up on
info wars.com. What they did with the world council of churches, the national council of
churches 100 years ago is declassified. It's public. They knew that churches had led the fight
against King George in 1776. The black brigade, as they were known, leading them.
It's whether you were Catholic or Protestant, you were black,
with a little white insignia of a priest. At that time, you spoke from the pulpit
and they said, we've got to take over the seminaries. We've got to put our people in.
And they said, we're going to use sex operations on them. We're first going to,
because we can't get women into the priesthood, whether it be Protestant or Catholic, we're
going to put men in. And then we're going to start having the men run sex ops and have sex with the
men they can and then only recruit other men in that have had sex and then recruit young boys in
that they had sex with to then take over. That's how the cult works. And they've taken over a large
part of the civilization and they admitted it's a national security threat in the UK and pedophiles
have taken the government over there. That's the London Independent, London Guardian. They've
all reported it. Blackmail is how the new pope got in. Blackmail about pedophilia at the top of the
papacy. But then the media here goes, oh, Trump's not rounding up pedophiles and there's no
pedophiles and Jones makes it up that there's lots of pedophiles. But then I'm public enemy
number one, because I understand this paradigm and the Navy SEALs and the Army folks and the FBI
people and the Secret Service and the Interpol people, they're all out there. They're fully aware
of this. And they're busy rolling up the people in their own organizations while you're seeing bust
every day inside governor's offices, inside mayor's offices, had like what 14 Democrat
mayors stepped down the last couple of years for pedophilia. I mean, it's massive. This is a
revolution against them, more indictments at Penn State. But imagine if you saw Christians
attacking and killing hundreds of people a day, you hear Christians attacked and Christians are
to blame, but because it's Muslims blowing up and shooting people hundreds and hundreds today
alone, close to 300 dead, we're saying a thousand or more injured, nothing about Muslims in Egypt
or in Nigeria. Just truly sickening. Now that leads me to what we're talking about the takeover of
the churches. They put these people in and if you look at both these women, they're both wearing a
uniform. They both have the same haircuts. She's the woman they're interviewing. It's all part of
the same culture, the same system. And it says Church of Sweden worships gender neutral God.
And it major churches in the U.S. They're pulling out George Washington and Robert E. Lee plaques,
even though they paid to build the churches, literally. That's just history. But again,
it's a war on reality because they don't want you know your roots because your roots would defeat
them the minute you woke up. But so you stopped going to the church. So these folks took over.
You stopped going to the seminary or the priesthood. So these folks took over.
And now they want your kids. Now they want your pension. They're going to get it all if you don't
stop them. But coming up next hour in great detail with Laura Loomer and Mike Cernovich,
ex secret service agent. This just broke at info wars.com. This is a major, massive
game changing event. And if this gets out, this could change the whole course of things,
just like rich being murder could change the course or Hillary's emails or WikiLeaks.
We've already changed the course. We're already turning the tide. And as more people go public,
not about some guy that tried to kiss him 10 years ago, and that gets equated with rape.
No, no, no, there's smoke screening with normal, you know, kissing, beauty, sleeping beauty stuff.
They're equating that with pedophilia. So it's all just a big smoke screen where sex period is evil.
Or a man telling a woman she's good looking is evil. Or a gay guy telling a guy he's good looking
is, is, is sexual assault. It's not. Most of these attacks in space, he has reportedly raped
people. I think it's an horrible guy. But a lot of times he says, Hey, I want to go out with you.
And they go, Oh my God, sexual harassment, you know, I'm working under you. Just whatever.
I'm not condoning it. The guy's out of control. It's, but when he does that, it's not the same
as grabbing a man's genitals and saying, I'll have you fired. If you don't have sex with me,
genitals and saying, I'll have you fired. If you don't have sex with me.
But the point is, is they're trying to create the smoke screen in Hollywood, the media about
normal sexual relations being evil or being criminal because they've got Bill Clinton and the
Lolita Express and Jerry Epstein and Clinton, more than 20 flights with little kidnap girls
on board being taken to an island where they didn't just rape them folks. We know about
the spirit cooking. We know about their operations. They're so scared of us right now. They know we're
so close. We need more Secret Service to go public. So we have Secret Service to go public
last week dealing with all the incredible corruption and dealing with the sexual assaults
and dealing with the things that Bill Clinton's been up to and dealing with witnessing Joe Biden
going after children as young as five years old groping their their buttocks. This is all coming
out. And so go ahead and write your articles saying Trump's not going after pedophiles or that
there's no pedophilia and I made it up. You go ahead historically and you put your name
in these publications on what you stand for. So we know who you're with and what you stand for.
Because again they're using the pedophilia as the thing to control people in the cult. X Secret
Service agent threatens to drop new details about Bill Clinton and Lolita Express. infamous private
jet was owned by sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. The X Secret Service agent Dan Bongino and again
I have really tried to get him to go public with this stuff. He said it's worse than you know Alex.
It's worse than you know Bongino got into Twitter spat with former Hillary Clinton aide Nick Morell
and Morell challenged Bongino and his claim that Hillary was the most manipulative political person
in the world of power and he had ever met his entire life. Morell claimed Hillary Clinton as
enormous respect with Secret Service and a great relationship with her agents in her detail. She's
totally rude to him and that Bongino was never on Clinton's detail. Bongino shot back back huge
Morell of being a fraud before dropping the threat to expose more. Be very careful Nick
before known things not yet released publicly about your Messiah Hillary. Don't poke the
bear loser. You may not like the results. Hashtag Epstein. Hashtag email gate tweeted Bongino.
This is so huge. We're coming back next hour. Wow. This just broke on infowars.com. We need this.
I never do this. I never asked Matt Rudge to put links up. I've done it like five times every time
he's been listening. Within minutes it goes up. I don't know if he still does that. I haven't talked
to him in a while. But even if it didn't our report on this, this is just now breaking.
This is massive. This needs to go out right now. Everybody fire the bat beam and you're the bat beam
listeners on Facebook, on Twitter, on YouTube, everywhere. This is ultra, ultra, ultra, ultra,
ultra, ultra, ultra, ultra, ultra massive. We need you to get this out. Now before I go any further
I'm going to come back and go through the whole article. Black Friday is here. We have the biggest
specials of this week of sales. A lot of these sales obviously have to end because they're selling
out. Rainforest 50% off and free shipping. The amazing new tropics. Silver bullet 67% off plus
free shipping. Surveillance Vitality 50% off. InfoWars select high quality, storeable food.
50% off on a very high quality, storeable food. All probes here are out of 25% off. Knockout the
sleeping. 50% off. Leaven to the fence. 50% off. Prosecutor 50% off. Plus many others at infowarstore.com.
50% off and free shipping. It's going to end. infowarstore.com. We need your support. We're
taking on the pedophiles. Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at
optimum levels, optimum levels. With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended
amount of B vitamins we need every day. Up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption. Up, up,
up, optimal absorption. Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression,
poor memory and lethargy. Secret 12. Up, up, up, optimal absorption. B vitamins help the body
convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes. B vitamins are also
essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system. Up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake. Head to infowarstore.com
and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12. That's infowarstore.com.
Vitamin mineral fusion. Visit infowarstore.com to secure your chemistry. We have worked for
years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable,
great tasting multivitamin formula available. Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com
is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body
absolutely needs. In the history of infowars life we've brought out a lot of amazing products like
survival shield x2, supermail vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum
standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in
vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means
it's clean. That means it's pure and resecured. You're funding the tip of the spear in the info
war. That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the biggest piece of breaking news.
In years we already have the pedophile networks imploding at the Vatican, at the Pentagon, at
the major universities, at the public schools, at the Protestant churches. This is how this
group of globalists using intelligence ops, this multinational corporate group that's basically
like specter but in the real world gets into organizations and takes them over by compromising
people. This is so absolutely ultra massive, ladies and gentlemen. This is so huge. Dan Bongino,
the former head secret service agent when they did foreign details. So the head secret service
agent for foreign operations who quit the White House of Obama because he said it's so evil on
this show, he said it many times, it's worse than you know, Alex. It's worse than you know. He's
had his house broken into, his car broken into, his family threatened. When I've had other secret
service sources about Hillary and her collapsing because of a brain tumor, reportedly, he gets
death threats when he wasn't my source on that. Everything Dan Bongino has ever told me has been
here on air. Well, the Clintons had their operatives out saying he was a liar and that Hillary treated
the secret service great and that Hillary was a wonderful person when I personally talked to
Secret Service and I've talked to Blackwater people that are on record as of protecting her
and that she treats you like an animal. That's been in books. You don't look her in the eyes.
She hates dogs, screams and yells. They bring a search dog in. More stuff. I mean, she is a monster.
She's well known. FBI agents have gone public that were in the White House. You name it.
They're into desecration. People said, why does she hang crack pipes in 1995 on the Christmas tree
and little pictures of Mao and Stalin? It was to desecrate the tree, to desecrate symbols of beauty
and wholesomeness and goodness. Now breaking on infowars.com and newswars.com, ex-secret service
agent threatens to drop new details about Bill Clinton and Loretta Express, the admitted pedophile
playing flying children of the Caribbean island that Bill Clinton flew to, that Kevin Spacey was on,
that Harvey Weinstein was on. They would go to known Islamic countries where sheiks have legal
harems because Mohammed had sex with girls as young as nine. So they say it's okay. You know
about women being kidnapped, taken there. This is huge. And this is who they are. And the story is there. Speaking
back with the Clinton official that was saying he was a liar about her being rude to secret service
agents, he called them a fraud before dropping his threat to expose more. Be careful, Nick.
People know things not yet released publicly about your Messiah, Hillary. Don't poke the
bear loser. You may not like the results. Hashtag Epstein. Hashtag email gate tweeted Bongino.
Be careful, Nick. People know things not yet released publicly. He followed up asking Meryl,
dear Nick, are you guys sure you know everyone on the Epstein planes? Does they mask a bunch of
the names? Dear Nick, are you sure you destroyed all those blackberries? Was their government
property in the bunch? Hashtag people know Dan Bongino at D Bongino. It's going wide open.
I personally talked to high level Interpol. I personally talked to people the highest levels
of systems across the planet. They know what you do to the little kids, globalists. They know.
And so good luck with what you're trying. And good luck with all the other stuff you pulled.
And good luck putting out some fake stories. Hoping we report on those.
Just credit the whole thing. Humanity is awakening to you and nothing on earth is going to protect
you. So get ready to meet judgment. Get ready for judgment day, bitches. You go to infowarstore.com
and get game changing amazing products. We've been sold out of DNA force for almost four months.
These ingredients are nutraceutical grade, the highest quality, the bio-PQQ, all of it. It's 25%
off. The truck got in this morning and it's back, but it is a limited run because of all the testing
and all the rest of it. It's the highest quality. Read about what it'll do for you and your family.
It is amazing. We've also been sold out for three months on biome defense, super high quality,
probiotic. It's 25% off out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time.
So you get the highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really, really proud of it.
DNA force and biome defense, probiotic. Now back in stock, infowarstore.com. And when you buy
products from globalists, it's an act of trading with the enemy. It is an act of war. It is an
act of standing up when you spread the links, the articles and buy products from us. And when we
commit to rampage against the enemy totally. The globalist great error is to believe that as they
collapse humanity, they end up on top. The truth is, humanity is coming down fast,
but we're miles above them on our journey to hell. We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I'm Alex Jones, your host. Thank you for joining us. Well,
I already plan to come in here today on Black Friday and break down the fact that
we've got more than 10,000 pedophiles and child porn dealers, child rapists, child traffickers
busted. We're not just talking about somebody with child porn. A lot of them have been involved
in that. We're talking about more than 2000 arrests of people that had children or were
having sex with children or were trafficking children. And we're talking about children
as young as six months of age. And then you see all the usual suspects, all the major liberal
media going, Trump's not busting pedophiles. Oh, Alex Jones is making up that pedophilia exists.
They deposed the last Pope blackmailing him over pedophilia. That was in the London Guardian.
Fox News, Colorado child sex traffickers sentenced to 472 years in prison,
trafficking children as young as six months of age. Boom. That just happened today.
Hey, top brands pull YouTube ads over pedophilia fears. Sky News,
Daily Mail, Google access distasteful survey, asking users to choose which child they find
to be more attractive in a pedophilia survey. What? So that's just in the news today. And
here's the big bombshell that ties into everything we're about to talk about.
Ex-Secret Service agent threatens to drop new details about Bill Clinton and Lolita Express,
arguing with former Clinton operative online, Dan Bongino, said to Nick Merrill,
you better stop claiming that she was nice to Secret Service. You want to play games? I know
about the blackberries. I know about Lolita Express. I know about who else was on that plane,
not just Bill Clinton. And we know what you were doing. So get ready. That's up on infowars.com
by Paul Joseph Watson. It's huge. We got Mike Cernovich hosting the fourth hour. He broke,
of course, the John Conyers, not just hitting on women, not just harassing women, flying them in
on government planes. But again, I think that's wrong. It's horrible. I hate John Conyers.
But hitting on women or even using government money to bring in women, that's fraud.
It's not the same as pedophilia and being on airplanes with kidnapped 10-year-old girls
drugged up. Imagine here, Weinstein and Kevin Spacey and all of them going to this island
and with Bill Clinton and Hillary. Oh, Hillary first represented pedophiles. She loved to do it.
Men, seven men raped an 11-year-old girl they kidnapped off her front porch with her bike.
They raped her so hard she could never have children again. Do I need to get
graphic about what happened to that little girl? They smashed her cervix all the way in
until she had what they call a prolapse and her whole body came out of her. And I'm sorry
to talk about that with people watching. Hillary Clinton made jokes about it. She thinks little
girls getting raped for 24 hours with blood pouring out of them is funny. So you remember
that when you look at that witch and you love her. And that's what Bongino said. He said,
you're Messiah. What's the quote here? Be careful, Nick. People know things not just released publicly
about your Messiah. Yeah, she doesn't just, she doesn't, let me just say this here. Hillary
doesn't just, Hillary doesn't just represent pedophiles. That's why they're coming after me.
Dear Nick, be careful, Nick. People know things not yet released publicly about your Messiah,
Hillary. Don't poke the bear loser. You may not like the results. Hashtag Epstein. Hashtag
email gate. Yeah, you know it's in the 36,000 emails. It's more spirit cooking. You got all
those blackberries. Did you forget some? Hashtag people know. We're going to get into Laura Loomer
with us right now. And the fact that she got the exclusive video, she did not release it.
The media put out the lie that she released the video of Congressman Joe Burton playing with
himself in a video to a reportedly a consenting woman. Then they lied and said, I put out the
video. I did not. I didn't even blur it. I covered the computer screen with paper. It only showed
his face because they already put up a still image to confirm that it was a real story after
other people broke it, but to also show that he was saying it was only an image he'd sent,
not a video. That's not true. But I said, if it was consenting, it's revenge porn against him
and it's wrong. And I warned people about what they do on these sites. The media then spun it
that I released the full edited video as revenge porn. I guess saying I had sex with Congressman
Joe Burton, which I will assure you is not the case. He's not my type. So this is the point we've
gotten to, ladies and gentlemen, where there's lies upon lies upon lies upon lies upon lies.
And it really, really, really makes my head spin. So we'll get into that in the next segment,
Laura Loomer and all the rest of it. But there's clearly a civil war going on using dirt. Everybody's
got on each other. All the data mining, all the spine, people know who the girlfriends are,
who the boyfriends are, who the messresses, everybody's playing their hands now. None have
been played against me because there's nothing there. And thank God, I think God, I'm not into
the Internet. I'll tell you that right now. I've been divorced for four years. But you know,
I'm a simple man. I'm not into all this stuff. I have a basic instinct not to have sex in front
of a computer, but this is getting crazier and crazier. We'll get into Joe Burton in a moment,
and I mean his misrepresentation. But what do you make of this Bongino, highly credible,
top-level Secret Service agent who told me, Alex, it's worse than you know. And I go,
wait a minute, worse than I'm saying? He always says that. He goes, yes, Alex, worse than you know.
Well, now he's letting us know he better go public or they're going to kill him.
Well, look, Alex, that's what we've been talking about for years now, right? Bill Clinton's own
sexual promiscuity, his sexual infidelity, and his association with sexual predators and pedophiles.
So it really doesn't surprise me. And you know, if there's one good thing that's going to come out
of this surge of sexual harassment allegations and sexual assault allegations, it will be the
expose of the Clinton family and their own ties to sexual assault and sexual harassment and rape.
So, you know, I'm hoping that Bill Clinton is finally exposed for the predator he really is.
And what about all the people that have been defending him saying there's no pedophile
scandals? We're making it up when it's all, it's everywhere. Yeah, well, people are starting to
run away from the Clintons. You're already seeing people in Hollywood now are starting to back away.
And especially after Donna Brazil released her book about Hillary Clinton as well,
even Democrats are starting to throw the Clintons under the bus. We see with Hollywood,
Chelsea Handler sent out a tweet and replied to Juanita Broderick saying, Oh, I'm so sorry,
I didn't see this tweet until now, but I believe you. So you have celebrities who defended and
campaigned for the Clintons during the campaign trail saying, I believe you that Bill Clinton
raped you. So the rats are leaving the sinking ship. We created the hashtag Hillary for president,
lock her up. Our listeners did it. They created the whole movement that Bill Clinton's a rapist.
And now total vindication yet again. Yeah, I mean, look, I don't know when people are going to
realize Alex Jones and info wars is always right, right? They like to call you a conspiracy
theorist and they like to call people like me and others in the alternative media like
Mike Cernovich conspiracy theorists. But you know, the truth is going to come out and people are
finally going to realize Bill Clinton is a rape, right? And Roger Stone shirts and all of the Bill
Clinton is a rapist videos that we made, they're going to vindicate us and all of the conservatives
who have been defending Juanita and by the way, I didn't just endorse Trump and I don't just know
Roger Stone that knows Trump. I know a lot of people that know Trump way back even longer than
Roger Stone. The truth is Trump gets obsessed with one woman showers him with gifts, treats
him like a princess, just like he acts in public. Now the woman is mean to him once or twice. He
leaves them. So but he's a neat freak as well. He's a one woman guy. And so I mean, I checked
into all this. I mean, I know stuff the media would obviously want to know about Trump. I'm
going to get into it on air, but I know the real Donald Trump. And so to hear that he's having
women urinate on him or he has all these sexual partners, that's not Donald Trump.
Well, also to I mean, you have to think to yourself a man who's in the public eye, who's a
celebrity, who's the now president of the United States, the billionaire, people tend to have
common sense or you would expect people in positions of power like politicians. I know
we're going to talk about Congress and Martin today to have common sense, right, to not be engaging
in these extravagant sexual affairs. I was about to say, say what you want about Martin.
Okay, this voting record is not that good as a conservative. He's a neocon. What are you doing
jerk? Excuse me. What are you doing playing with yourself in front of a live camera to webcams to
a bunch of women? I mean, that that's that that's close to sticking. You know what? No, I suck it.
I mean, that is stupid, stupid, stupid. And a lot of conservatives are mad at me for saying it's dumb.
It is dumb. I'll throw anybody under the bus that deserves it. Heart disease is on the rise,
clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels may not be fully detected by
you. But the symptoms are there. Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation
and irregular heartbeat are just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong. Here
how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives across America.
My blood pressure has normalized, my diabetes has totally improved. Everyone is telling me now how
much healthier I look and I'm familiar with how much healthier I feel. I recommend heart and body
extract to everyone. Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product
as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy. Order your two month supply today
by calling 866-295-5305 that's 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com, heart and body extract
866-295-5305 or hbextract.com. The answer to being in control of your own health care is
freedom from insurance. Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share
in each other's medical expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347
for families. Choose from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible
for sharing. See guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go
to libertyoncall.org that's libertyoncall.org. Hello Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much
time you spend on conservative news sites. We have no choice but to consider you a domestic
terrorist. Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother? Get virtualshield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network. Browse the web anonymously leaving pesky
advertisers and spies in the dust. Get started today at virtualshield.com. Take advantage of our
free 30-day trial virtualshield.com. You have the right to remain private.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot
of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war. A 360 win. Number one,
when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at infowarstore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers. Number three, we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50. Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy
to forget to reorder the products that you need each month. Just go to infowarstore.com, select
your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you
another order. As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature in
infowarslife.com, this is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslife.com,
free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign
up for auto ship. I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally, societally,
economically, spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top of giant time with
populations and globalism and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds.
Things are getting crazy. We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet. We've also got to
have rear guard actions to be prepared. The number one thing after getting right with God is to have
high-quality, storeable food. Well, the entire line of my Patriots supply foods, private labeled
as info war select, is now 50% off. We've only done that one time before previously. 50% off,
you cannot beat that. And we're only doing that through Cyber Monday. So it starts today
on Thanksgiving and runs through next Monday. infowarstore.com, you can go right there. It's
the full spectrum of my Patriot, it's private labeled by us, totally fresh, last 25 years,
50% off, 50% off, take action today. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The Alex Jones show, because there is a war on, for your mind.
We're going to Lower Loomer here with exclusives on Congressman Dan Burton, Joe Burton, excuse me,
Martin, proud of the fifth time I'm going to get it right. Teleprompter free, ladies and gentlemen,
don't have a list in front of me, not reading off the teleprompter that somebody else filled up.
We'll go to Lower Loomer concerning Congressman Joe Barton here in Texas, here in just a moment,
and I'll reintroduce that. First off, we're tirelessly taking on the very power structure.
And we've seen senior Secret Service agents go public last week saying Joe Biden groped women
and children in front of them. That story's up on infowars.com. We now have this news story,
ex Secret Service agent Dan Bongino threatens to drop new details about Bill Clinton and
Lolita Express. I cannot state to you how big a deal this is and how massive this piece of news
and information is. So more of that coming up as we learn more exclusively at infowars.com right
now. I'm going to get hold of Bongino during the break, see if he can come on. He's been on
probably 50 times, but this is huge. The fact that he's going that public tells you they know the dam
is breaking on the pedophile networks. Now they use that to control people. So more on that coming
up. But right now, Congressman Joe Barton of Texas of Innis, Texas. Is he innocent? Is he a good guy?
Is he a bad guy? Is this revenge porn against him by this woman that's going to talk to the Washington
Post? Well, whatever it is, we're going to get Laura Loomer has been talking to these people's
expert analysis on this. Whatever the truth is, I think it's very incompetent and very reckless
to be doing something like this. I've been single before this modern age of computers and
not even looking to date and stuff pops up that a woman's two miles away and wants to exchange
pictures with me. What do I do? I hit the X button. I've probably done it a hundred times. So there's
real impulse control problems here. But Laura Loomer, let's recap the case that just broke
up yesterday or a day and a half ago and walk through what's happened and how this story's changed.
So there were nude pictures and sex between representative Joe Barton and a woman that
were published to Twitter from an account on the 20th. And these images circulated the web
and they showed Joe Barton sending very graphic pictures of himself and very
lewd text messages to a woman who he was supposedly having a relationship with.
He admitted that the images were him and that he did send the messages and then he apologized
and said that it was consensual and that the messages were sent while he was separated or
divorced from his wife. And then he also said that what was seen online was what he was aware
of as well. And he didn't take responsibility for a video. He said that there was just a photo,
right? And we do know that every single aspect of his statement is now false. So it wasn't a photo,
it was a video. The picture that circulated was a screenshot from the video. The relationship,
if you look at the text messages, it took place on Tuesday, March 13th, which was in 2012. And an
article by the Washington Post has now confirmed that these messages were sent and that this
sexual affair took place in 2012. So Joe Barton was not separated from his wife. His wife filed
for divorce in 2014 and he was officially divorced in 2015. So what Representative Joe Barton is doing
is he's using revenge porn laws as a fake shield for his own sexual infidelity, which he lied about.
And there's a lot more to the story that isn't really being talked about. The woman said that
Representative Joe Barton flew her to Capitol Hill where he was working as a congressman
in 2012 and gave her a tour of the Capitol and then slept with her afterwards. So I want to know,
was he using his miscellaneous spending or finances as a congressman, which he's
given as an allowance to fly this woman out and have sexual affairs? I mean, he,
according to this woman, paid her off in cash and reimbursed her in cash for her flight
like a prostitute. And this, the woman who spoke to the Washington Post appears to be a different
woman from the woman who posted the messages originally online. So people are accusing you
and I of posting revenge porn, but you know, one, I don't think this is revenge porn and two,
I never posted any images or videos of Representative Barton. Sure, since you raised it,
let's be clear. It was like Tuesday, you call the office, I'm not here. You've been given the raw
footage. I wanted to show that we had the raw footage without showing us what we did. We covered
up, you know, 90% of the screen showed the top his face and said, folks, it's not just a photo.
This is a video. And I said, this was given third party to Laura Loomer. She doesn't know
why it was given to her. But our whole point is if it was done to be mean, it's revenge porn.
We dubbed that term. If it was done maliciously, didn't mean we engaged the revenge porn.
I said in the video live report, that's what that's what it could be. But now the whole story
is degenerating and officially falling apart. Something I want to bring up though is,
is it really revenge porn? Right? I feel like Republicans are being extremely hypocritical
here simply because Joe Barton is a Republican. That's right. When TMZ puts out somebody's sex
tape that somebody put out, they don't call it that. It's called journalism. Anthony Weiner,
right? Anthony Weiner was having a consensual sexting relationship with a woman in 2013.
I'm not talking about the, the minor. I'm talking about, I believe it was Sydney Leathers, right?
He believed he was having a consensual message to him was sending her sex messages and pictures
of his penis as well. So Republicans use that to tear down Anthony Weiner. And we use that
to campaign against the Clintons. And we had no problem bringing up his, his dick pics and his
sexual messages and his infidelity to Huma Abedin. So what would we have done if he had said that
was revenge porn? I really think that Republicans need to look at themselves in the mirror and
ask themselves if they're being hypocrites. We have a right to know what our elected officials
are doing while they're representing us on Capitol Hill. And if they're, you know, screwing around
on the taxpayer diamond and using funds, not saying that he did, but if they are using funds to have
Sure. Well, let's just be clear too. Weiner first got in trouble years ago for sexting adult women.
That's separate from his conviction for the 15 year old, because the media will try to conflate
that and be receptive as well. My old point, my old point in covering the fact that we have the
raw video is to say it's a video, not an image. Here you can see video of his face from the same
video, not showing the sexual part. It's just shocking to see mainline Republicans try to spin
it like we're Democrats or we're bad people for covering this. They even claim we originally
put the photos out, which isn't true. Again, it's just incredible deception.
No, I completely agree with you. They're trying to accuse us. They're trying to make it sound like
Representative Joe Barton sends me messages, like sexual messages directly, and that I was the one
who released them. And that's not true. And so I have people who are messaging me like, oh, were
you testing Representative Joe Barton? And they're acting like liberals. And that's because the media
misrepresent things so badly. Right. And we have conservatives who are now falling into this liberal
trap. And they're not trying to hold Representative Joe Barton. No, no, no, I agree. Let's come back
and talk about it. But to be clear, the photos are out. It's not just a photo. It's a video.
We showed we have the video without showing even his hands. We just show his face looking down
from the same photo that was public to show we have the video. It's a video, not the other.
And I said people are idiots if they're doing this online sex stuff. I'm not trying to go after
Barton or anybody. I'm simply reporting that what he did though sexting is not the same as
pedophilia. And it's not the same as all this other stuff. But if he's lying to his constituents,
that's a whole other issue. And we've got to be fair here. We can't just go out for Democrats and
leave Republicans alone. We'll be right back with Lord Limer is on the run. You're listening to the
Alex Jones show. Have you ever lost your power and wanted to simply flip a switch to get the
lights back on? If so, pay close attention because huge discounts are now available in
solar generators. Perfect for backup power outages and emergencies. Portable solar generators
provide life saving electrical power when you need it most. And unlike gas generators, a solar
generator runs quietly, emits no dangerous fumes and produces an endless supply of electricity
from the sun. It's like having an electric power plant running secretly in your own home. Right
now, get a $5,000 solar generator for just $995 while supplies last. Go to mysolarbackup.com
to learn more. That's mysolarbackup.com. GCN listeners use coupon code GCN at checkout for
this special offer. Mysolarbackup.com use coupon code GCN, EMP protection available at an additional charge.
I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally, societally, economically,
spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top of giant time bomb with populations and
globalism and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds. Things are getting crazy.
We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet. We've also got to have rear guard actions to be
prepared. The number one thing after getting right with God is to have high-quality, storeable food.
Well, the entire line of my Patriot supply foods, private labeled as M4 Select, is now 50% off.
I've only done that one time before previously. 50% off, you cannot beat that. And we're only doing
that through Cyber Monday. So it starts today on Thanksgiving and runs through next Monday.
M4store.com, you can go right there. It's the full spectrum of my Patriot. It's private labeled by us,
totally fresh. Last 25 years, 50% off. 50% off. Take action today.
America is an information-based civil war. That's why now, more than ever, we've got to hit the
streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullying.
We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly the
counterculture. The real punk rock is being a Patriot, who's pro-America, pro-capitalism,
and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberal. To defend free speech,
meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original designs
of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot Feral at m4store.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at m4store.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good? Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares
me the most. I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages
in my system. But right now, we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful
to your body that lives off a host mechanism. Right now, with all the refugees spreading
disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff I said. There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing the parasite plans at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living Defense, m4slife.com. And folks,
you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period. And you support the broadcast,
m4slife.com. Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center. Thank you so much for
all your work, sir, on this great product. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Another time in the age of wonder.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting, World Wide. It's Alex Jones.
Why did you post the Joe Barton video and why did you pull it down? And they don't care what I say.
They're going to make up what they make up. So I just say make up what you're going to make up.
You're fake news. We're real news. I've explained the fact that if I published a book and there were
20 chapters that I only had three chapters, it would be called excerpts. So you have a TV screen
and you've got Congressman Joe Barton with his hand down here and I cover the whole
middle of the screen at the top and all you can see is his eyes at the top.
That's not publishing the video, but I understand you think somehow I can get in trouble for it or
something, which of course I won't. So you want to create the illusion that we're fake news, we're
illegal, we're bad, we did it. He was sending me the video. He was sending Laura Lumer the video.
I mean, that's what you do to your victim audiences. It's why you have smaller and smaller audiences.
We didn't like the fact that he was saying it was a photo, an image, when it was not an image,
it was a video. And he was saying it was another year, 2015, when it was 2012.
And I asked Laura Lumer, I said, what is the point of this? She goes, I don't know,
it's for multiple parties, passed down. She didn't publish it. I showed that we had the video,
but did not show the video. It's like saying, yeah, I was able to download a movie before it came out,
which I've never done myself, but to say like, I've got Blade Runner 2 before it came out,
go, oh, really show me, okay? Here's five seconds of it. That isn't posting Blade Runner online,
that's showing I have Blade Runner to point out that it is a video, not a photo.
And then I said, if this woman, it was consensual, it's revenge porn by her to go to the press.
But if there's another story, maybe he's bad. It was an incredibly fair piece. And I'm not covering
this to CYA myself. I'm covering it just like I spent an hour on that lying guy at Vox talking
about Sean Hannity and saying Sean Hannity endorsed Roy Moore at the beginning of the campaign,
or whether there's no Uranium One scandal, it's just showing what liars you are.
That's what this is about. That's why we do this. Now, quite frankly, I had Laura Lumer already coming
on, a great investigative journalist. She gets demonized a lot. We got Mike Cerembres that
broke the John Conyers stuff coming up. I won't talk about what's coming next, but I got to be
honest. Spending time on Joe Barton is really at this point secondary other than getting the record
straight. If people ask why I took it down, because I saw the media immediately saying,
Alex has published the full video of him doing this. I knew they were going to misrepresent it.
And then I thought somebody else is about to put it out, because I thought it would be out by now.
They're going to say that was me. So I did that. We've got the footage we put up if it covered up,
if we need to. But the media is so deceptive now that there's a murder in Tim Buck, too. They'll
probably say I did it. So that's my whole issue there. It was the show we had the video. The
show he wasn't telling the truth about that. People don't understand that, that they don't have a
brain. But the big stories on infowars.com, newswars.com by Paul Joseph Watson, Dan Bongino,
senior secret service agent on foreign trips, who told me many times on air and off air,
Alex, it's worse than you know. It's worse than you know. It's as bad as you could possibly imagine.
Now saying, look out, Hillary Clinton was involved with Bill Clinton and Epstein on those pedophile
flights. I want to get to this with you, Laura, in the next segment, because it's so big, and just
this overall scandal and where this is going. But you get my point that a guy sending stuff to
a woman he's reportedly dated might be creepy. If she doesn't want anymore, might be harassment,
might be stalking. But on a scale of one to 10, it's like a one or a two. Lolita Express and
kidnapped little girls, that's a 10. And so I just see the media focusing. I'm not knocking you
for focusing on this or us focusing. We cover it all because we talked yesterday. We're like,
we'll be hypocrites if we don't cover this because we're covering Democrats. So let's,
let's cover the fact that we have the video. He's lying about it just being an image.
But then the media lies about that. But at the same time, we should just set the
registrate and move on. Yeah. And look, I don't want to continue dwelling on this. I think it
was important for me to come on today and speak with you to address these, you know, wild accusations
that we're engaging in revenge porn. Because look, there's just a lot of hypocrisy. And the problem
is, is that Republicans have no issue using images against Democrats like Anthony Weiner
to take them out of political power and to shame the Democrats. But when it comes to draining the
swamp on the Republican side of the aisle, they just act like hypocrites. And I'm just going to
quote what you said in the beginning of this segment. Judgment day is coming, bitches. So if,
you know, if you're going to drain the swamp, you got to drain it on both sides of the aisle.
You can't clean out your neighbor's closet if you're not going to clean out your own.
Oh, I agree. There are swamp creatures in both parties. Oh, yeah. And, you know, if you look at
all of these sexual harassment accusations and these sealed deals, and you want to talk about
draining the swamp, forget about term limits, right? We're going to drain the swamp by sperm
limits. That's what it's starting to look like, because it seems like a lot of men in Congress
haven't been able to keep their, you know, their junk in their pants, and they've been
using taxpayer funds to cover up their own sexual harassment. I don't get it. It's a power trip.
I mean, like I'm focused on business and getting the stuff done. And it'd be one thing if a guy
like had an affair once every 20 years and wasn't married or something. It's like they're all over
everybody. They're like maniacs. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's very concerning. And I think that there's
a lot of hypocrisy on both sides of the aisle. Democrats want to go after Republicans. Republicans
want to go after Democrats. But when it comes to exposing the swamp creatures on your own side of
the aisle, if we're going to go after one person for sexual harassment, you have to treat everybody
fairly. You just can't pick and choose. Absolutely. But expanding on this, I would have thought when
fake news blew up the Democrats' face and the media's face, they would back off. Instead,
they've just intensified the level of fake news against yours truly, yourself, many others.
It has reached just biblical cloud cuckoo land level. Yeah, look, it's a shame. I mean, I'm
embarrassed to say that even conservatives I've respected in the past, we're engaging in this
revenge porn narrative and trying to attack you and I on Twitter for something that, you know,
we didn't do. They're trying to make it seem like we were very malicious. But look, I think at the
end of the day, by the way, they never saw the footage because I took it down in 30 minutes
because I saw the spin. I was like, hey, it's video, not this. Here's his face. It's video. See,
oh, they showed it. He put the image out. I was like, whoa, I'm not going to get in. I'm not going
to, you know, get in that briar patch. Yeah. But like I said, right? Congressman Joe Barton
lied about when these messages were sent. He lied about being divorced from his wife.
And he lied about his infidelity and the one he lied about it being a video. He said it was a
photo, not a video. Yeah. And the woman told the Washington he said, this is the extent of it.
He said this image is all there is. No, there's no video. The woman told the Washington Post that
the Congressman Barton said, oh, should I send you a picture of myself? And she said,
no, please do not send me a picture of yourself. So that would be sexual harassment. If she's
telling the truth and he really did send her pictures like that and she didn't want them,
that's harassment. If you're sending somebody unwanted pictures of yourself. All I'm saying is,
Laura, is that who in their right mind, especially a public figure, jacks into the Internet and then
masturbates in front of a webcam. I mean, that is the craziest. That is totally irresponsible.
And I don't care who he is. Plus the guy wanted DACA. The guy wants globalism. He's a neocon.
Yeah, he's he's a rhino, right? He's a never trumpet. He cheated on Americans with DACA
and now he's been caught cheating on his wife through these sex messages and he's a responsibility and
needs to resign. He needs to stop threatening this woman with a capital investigation when
he was the one who blew her out to DC himself. And he needs to stop using his position of political
power to try and silence women. If you're going to stand right there, we're going to come out,
get into the big issue, the pedophilia. Support good oral health with our one of a kind,
super blue fluoride free products. InfoWarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend
with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor
made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with
the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and supercharge your oral health. Our amazing
mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and biblical
times. Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with a good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health
benefits. Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our
super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine
at infowarstore.com. That's infowarstore.com. I'm driving home here about to take off a few days
for Thanksgiving and I just want to impart my message to the listeners and viewers of how much
I appreciate you and how thankful I am. And I also just want to re-emphasize the point that if you
weren't there taking action and if you weren't there spreading the word, globalism would have
completely taken over not just this country but other nations. And globalism is a completely
anti-individual, anti-God, anti-family, anti-Christian cancer that is just pure
power cult will to dominate and control society. And that we have come so far with God's help
and have turned the tide but the enemy's tracking back so just please we should all be so thankful
to God and thankful to each other for taking action and also girt ourselves and get ready for the
next big fight ahead because history is happening. So for myself and my family, God bless you all.
Have a great Thanksgiving. Men, give your body the support it needs with InfoWars Life Prostigar.
It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance. InfoWars Life has set
out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas that
you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts
recommend. The Prostigar formula does just that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients and
antioxidants that help give your body total support. It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto,
lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper. Prostigar is something that the men
on the InfoWars crew take every day and from our research it's something that men should really be
adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body. Get Prostigar on your side today
exclusively at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Refresh your breath with Immrix Essentials Organic Mouthwash. Our formula is made from
organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while
adding a pleasant or refreshing taste. Immrix Essentials Mouthwash is non-GMO,
certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals or other artificial ingredients
such as flavors, fragrances or dyes. The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated
containing antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will need to dilute one part
mouthwash to 10 parts water. Immrix Essentials Mouthwash is a great addition to your daily
breath and routine. It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker
sores. Go organic today with Immrix Essentials. Visit InfoWarsStore.com to learn more. That's
InfoWarsStore.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
There's a need for a new world order but it has different characteristics in different parts
of the room. Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
All right, Mike Cernovich is coming up with a lot of big breaking news. Laura Loomer,
investigative journalist, Rodin Shotkin, whether she's broken so much huge news, especially on
Vegas, game changing the worksheet there on so many other fronts. Got arrested during that,
Shakespeare in the park where they were simulating killing the president, simply protesting it.
That's why she gets demonized a lot by the left and right because she's taking action. She's
getting stuff done and that's who they go after. Just briefly here, we've got Black Friday specials
running. All of the specials are live right now at InfoWarsStore.com. A lot of these are going
to have to end because we're very, very close to selling out of them. They've been sold out for
weeks on Rainforest, our amazing Neutropic. It came back in last week, limited supply. That's
still 50% off 1995. Other leading brands that have similar formulas are $60, $70. So normally at
$29.95 or $39.95 at full price, it's a decent deal. At $19.95, it is close to being a lost leader,
plus with the free shipping it is. We have Silver Bullet Coil, Silver 67% off, same brand,
Jeff Bezos sells at Whole Foods for $25. We have it for $9. Super Mel Vitality, 50% off,
super high. That's a great deal. InfoWars Select, emergency high quality, swarable food,
50% off. We can hardly ever do that, but that's a free shipping on top of it. That's just insane.
All Pro Pure items, 25% off, water filtration, knockout, amazing. Same price as a bottle of
melatonin of the same dose, but there's eight other ingredients like L-trip, the fan,
valerian root, other things that all work together for an amazing restful sleep.
Living defense, anti-parasite cleanse, whether they need this in North Korea,
50% off, free shipping, cross-tagar, 50% off, plus free shipping, plus many, many others.
And these are going to have to end on Monday. On Monday, we have a couple new specials, but it
won't be as extensive as this. I just accelerate the specials because people like them, but I
got to sell a lot more products, people to fund the operation. So please commit to help us take
on the globalist. This stuff taken on the pedophile networks and my covert funding of
documentary film crews to aid law enforcement and coverage of it has got them really angry at me.
And I'm asking for it. I'm not complaining like, oh, look at me. They're coming after me.
I'm just saying you want to empower somebody that has given it all they got, not taking it lying down
and getting results. If there was somebody else out there doing what we're doing, I'd put all my
energy behind them because I'm looking for somebody doing a better job than I am. I don't think I'd
do that good job, but I'm committed. I'm long-term. We've been proven right. But we're the best there
is. And so we need your prayers, number one, spread the videos, spread the articles, get them out
there. You've been doing that. You've been getting around the sensors. They're really upset. They're
having congressional hearings on it. And commit to go to infowarstore.com today. And whether it's
heirloom seeds for the spring that are high quality, widest selection, or water filtration,
the very best systems, best prices, or air filtration, or Patriot apparel, or supplements,
it's all there. Free shipping, store-wide, infowarstore.com, or AAA-253-3139. And again,
if you'll just sign up for auto-ship, get an additional 10% off. It's free to do. The auto-ship
saves you 10%. And you can cancel anytime you want. But if it's coffee you want once a month, or
caveman that you want, or some of the Emirates essentials, or the new Florida Life, or the new
Carnivore product, you just sign up for auto-ship on stuff that you're going to reuse, or it's
perishable, then it comes to you each month, or every three months, or every six months.
It goes out to, I think, six months is the edge of when you can do it. And again, 10% off additionally.
So on top of that, a lot of these are lost leaders when you sign up for the auto-ship,
and then infowarstore. Okay, so going back to Laura Loomer, who people can follow at Twitter,
will give you all her contacts here in a moment. I agree. We should, it's at Laura Loomer,
at Laura Loomer there on Twitter. I agree. We should definitely cover the Joe Barton thing,
because it's a story of manipulation, a story of corruption, a story of just bad judgment.
And so that's why we did it, was the show. It's not an image, and that's not the extent of it.
It's a video, and there's reportedly other stuff, and other women, and I know you know some about
that. So it's how they handle this, the arrogance of these guys, thinking, because he's at the
Capitol and he's got power, that he could do something like this. I mean, this is just crazy.
Much less people that put their stuff on the cloud, you know, the Hollywood stars,
put stuff on the cloud, but then having sex with their boyfriends or girlfriends, and then wonder
why it gets out. I mean, it's crazy. So that said, moving on past that, what do you make of the Jerry
Epstein and the Bill Clinton and Dan Bongino, very respected secret service agent, saying,
look, we got evidence of all of you on the plane with the kids. Look out, it's going to come out.
That sounds to me like he's getting ready to bring it out, and he thinks in this climate,
it's safe to bring it out. Why do you think everybody's going public from sexual harassment
down to pedophilia right now? Why are there so many arrests? We know it's Trump, it's the courage,
it's the turning of things, but I mean, what's happening right now, Laura, in your view?
I think that there's a lot of things. I think that Trump being president, right? And a lot of
people not feeling threatened by a Clinton presidency in which their lives would literally
be threatened if Hillary Clinton was president. They wouldn't be able to come out and be public
about all of these allegations because Hillary Clinton would most likely abuse her position
of power to silence victims, just like she did to people like Juanita Broderick. And I think that
other women are inspired. I don't believe that all of the allegations against all of these men
are true. I think there are a lot of false allegations going around. But with regards to
Bill Clinton, we've been hearing stories about this and we've been hearing from women for years now.
And the mainstream media and Hillary Clinton and all of her associates have gone out of their
way to silence these individuals. And some of these people have even ended up dead, right,
with two suicide gunshots to the back of the head. So all I have to say is I really hope that
Dan Bongino goes into some type of witness protection program or gets some bodyguards
so that we're able to see this evidence and hear his account of events before he is found,
like I said, with two gunshots in the back of the head.
Well, Laura Loomer incredibly well said. I mean, that's it. And I've got to get all the video clips
of him on this show saying, Alex, it's worse than you're saying. It's worse than you know. And I say,
what is it? He goes, brother, I can't say, but let me just tell you, it's as evil as it gets.
And then they think he told me stuff off air. So they broke in his house,
broke in his car, death-threaded him. And he would call up probably 20 times and go, listen,
they listen to you all the time. You got to go in there and tell them I didn't tell you anything,
you know, off air, because he never does. I mean, he's not a stupid guy. I'm not stupid.
I don't want to know the stuff he knows unless it's on air. I told the DC Madam a month before
she got hung at her mother's house. And I talked to her condo manager, whether she owned a condo,
and I talked to her family. It wasn't her handwriting. She was murdered. She said people
were after her. She was during a break. John Harmon heard it. Because he was listening in
while she was on the phone. She's like, oh, I got them all. I don't want to hear any names.
She didn't say any names. I said, lady, I said, lady, say it all on air right now,
or don't tell me a word. I said, they're going to kill you. And she said, oh, no, I've got people
that have got the records that, you know, they thought their mom, that's why they went to her
house. And I didn't want to know. You either get it all out like Jim Garrison said in the JFK
assassination. You stay in the sunshine. I don't know any secrets that I basically haven't said
on air that are life-threatening. Because if somebody starts trying to tell me some big secret
I know I'll get you killed, I go, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, partner, tech, stop right there.
I do not want to know this unless you're ready to go public right now. These people just don't
get how dang it. But I mean, Bon Genos was a decorated New York cop, very good secret service
agent. He's not stupid. So, I mean, I think he's getting ready to go public. What do you think?
I've been calling him the last two hours, five times. He had an answer.
I hope he goes public. And look, you know, you're not the only one who's been speaking
with sources like this tied to the Clintons, people that have information on his abuse of power
when it comes to, you know, sex with others. I know somebody who told me that they were in
one of the presidential motorcades at President Bill Clinton allowed Kevin Spacey to use where
Kevin Spacey would literally be having gay sex in the back of President Clinton's motorcade
while President Bill Clinton was in town because they were buddies. There's a lot of these security
guards and personnel and secret service agents who are very aware of, you know, the promiscuity
and just this very disgusting perverse nature of Bill Clinton. The lawlessness, the lawlessness.
I mean, using taxpayer dollars in a security motorcade to engage in acts of gay sex. It's just,
You're saying you've got federal sources that were there while, I mean, that told you that Spacey
was having basically sex parties in the backs of limos in the motorcade.
Yeah, I'm not going to confirm whether or not they still are still active, you know,
federal security officers. But yes, I do have sources who have told me that they witnessed
Kevin Spacey having gay sex with men in the back of President Bill Clinton's motorcade.
And again, the media calls us fake news. How much, how many stories have we put out,
have you put out that have turned out to be dead on? I mean, it's just, it's a daily basis.
Everything we've talked about because we have real sources. All of the information I put out
regarding Vegas was true, but I was called the conspiracy theorist. I was called crazy.
People on the right demonize me. Well, that's because most of the right,
I saw the articles that attack you and I yesterday. It's Soros talking points. Every one of them was,
you know, all these lies. He lost his kid, you know, this lawsuit. He's a loser. He's a liar. He
says he's fake. It's just, it's a formula. These people are literally getting $20,000 a year from
Soros and they're just losers. We'll be back. Stay there, Laura Loomer and Mike Cernovich straight
ahead. I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally, societally, economically,
spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top of giant time with populations and globalism
and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds. Things are getting crazy.
We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet. We've also got to have rear guard actions to be
prepared. The number one thing after getting right with God is to have high-quality, storeable food.
Well, the entire line of my patriot supply foods, private labeled as M4 select, is now 50% off.
We've only done that one time before previously. 15% off. You cannot beat that and we're only doing
that through Cyber Monday. So it starts today on Thanksgiving and runs through next Monday.
M4store.com. You can go right there. It's the full spectrum of my patriot. It's private labeled by us
totally fresh. Last 25 years, 50% off. 50% off. Take action today.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials. Perfect for face and body,
this natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever you need sun
protection. We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals
and toxins. This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size
used and we do not use nanoparticle. The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth. The truly natural fragrance
free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin. EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun
and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life. Naturally protect your skin
with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials. Stop exposing yourself and your
family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarrestore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen
lotion. You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Waging war on corruption is your learner.
Waging war on corruption is Alex Jones. Coming up in the next segment, Mike Cernovich always
got big breaking news because he gets on the phone, he talks to sources, he talks to reporters.
Once you start breaking big stories, other sources come. You vet the source, you break the story.
Mainstream media could run circles around info, or around Mike Cernovich, or around Laura Loomer.
But they don't do the old fashioned stuff we do. And the more I don't burn sources,
the more I tell the truth, the more we build our credibility over the years.
I have so many sources and so much breaking stuff, I can't even keep track of it.
I mean, most people would get a Joe Barton video and not know what to do with it for three days.
Because it just takes so much analysis to even know what to do with all this.
How to do the right thing. And then the media will come back with a spin, so deceptive,
you don't even know how to respond. It's like, what? You do a video saying, if this woman released
this as a revenge porn, she should be arrested. But if he's lying about it, he should get in trouble.
Here's just his face, so you know we really have the video and it's not just a photo.
Then the media, Jones released the full unblurred video. And you're like, here's the video,
we didn't do that. Shut up. You're going to jail. You're like, well, we didn't release the video.
And they just don't care. It's not like you're even worried about getting in trouble if you're
doing anything wrong. It's like the neocons want to arrest you. And so do the Democrats. And it's
like, all you want to have a prosperous country and tell the truth. And like, dude, I don't care
what you're doing. You can't be a congressman while you're at the Capitol in your office,
masturbating into a camera. It's crazy. I don't want my kids thinking that's normal.
And I'm not some goody two shoes guy. I've got common sense. What in the world are you doing?
All this free love stuff. You're going to have sex with somebody you don't even trust or know.
That's what sex is all about is about trust. It's not like some goody two shoes conservative thing
that I say that just so I can act cool and everything. I wouldn't want to have sex with
somebody that looked like a supermodel. If they were some empty soul, that sounds horrible.
But the soulless people, they love it. It's why there's a big market now in robot sex toys. What
a joke. Or, or, or, you know, the fleshlight and all this crap. It's all emptiness. Go have sex
with a mannequin. It's just crazy. Laura Loomer, great job breaking all this and letting me make
the decision what to do with the video. I think we did the right thing, you know, covering it all
up except his face. So the folks knew he was lying about it being an image. I'm not against.
I wanted to make you aware really quick. If you have a few moments of another
breaking news update regarding another sex scandal that's about to be released within
the next few days, it was supposed to come out today, but it looks as if the accuser is now
being threatened or intimidated by the congressman who she is accusing of having an extramarital
affair with. So apparently there's a 19 year old GOP staffer who had an affair with a married
lead, uh, never Trump or Republican congressman. And the, uh, a major newspaper was going to
break the story this morning. And then the woman is claiming that around 4 30 in the morning,
she got a call from a blocked number that reminded her that she signed an NDA so that if
she were to go public with things, she would be sued. So here we go. NDAs don't cover,
don't cover sex. They don't cover stuff that's illegal. Not that sex is illegal. It doesn't
cover private stuff like that. I mean, you could argue they did, but it's just not true.
I just want you to know, I mean, just how disgusting is that that this, this woman who may
have been 18 or younger, we know that she's 19. We're not being told when the extramarital affair
happened. But now this woman who wants to come forward and she may be a victim of harassment
is now trying to, is starting to be threatened, uh, with, with NDA. She signed to work for
congressman. I mean, look, it happens on the right and it happens on the left. I'm going to
say it one more time. If you want to drain the swamp, you have to be fair and drain the entire
swamp. You can't just make Democrats look bad. So Republicans, please stop being hypocrites.
Uh, if you're going to expose perverts like Weiner, you should also expose other perverts
on the right. Uh, that's sure. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, and again, I'm not pooping
any of this is very important. They're using the whole women's sex scandal, women cheating on
their husbands, men cheating. You know, that's being made synonymous with pedophilia. That's,
that's a totally different thing. I'm just being immoral compared to absolute criminal
activity. Thank you, Laura Loomer. We'll be right back with Mike Cernovich.
So Laura, thank you. I point out a lot to our listeners and viewers that without you funding
our operation by purchasing products and in full or store.com, we would not be here. We don't have
corporate sponsors. We don't have globalist funding. We're funded by patriots like you.
And we also, of course, provide high quality products to make it easy to support yourself
and to support us symbiotically as we try to retake this country and the planet
and heal the population that's been under globalist engineering. That said, we're running
biggest specials ever every single year during Black Friday. And this year is even better than
last year. We've got free shipping store-wide on everything. We've got huge sales like
brain force 50% off, pro-pure, water filters 25% off. We've got 50% off on select high quality
extortable foods. That's unprecedented. We've got super male vitality 50% off and so much more.
So check it out today.
That's right. Mike Cernovich and I co-hosting much of this show about the turn of the baton
over to him, but he broke the big John Conyers story last week. And they go, oh, fake news king,
Mike Cernovich breaks another story. Then you go through every one of his stories, none of them are
fake. And then I can't even keep track of all the stories that we break that turn out to be
totally accurate because we get them directly from the president or we get it from sources.
We're getting people that were at the dinner with McMaster when he was saying the president was an
idiot and a moron and couldn't believe he had the new codes and all the rest of it. And then word
for word, it breaks two months later and they don't even give us credit. I know he gave his story to
Buzzfeed was a daily beast. It's all the same thing. But one of those, I forget which one it was this
week. I tweeted about it. They literally took our entire McMaster story, even took paragraphs that
were quotes and didn't even give us credit. Then when I linked to Russian news, they say I'm a
Russian agent and I'm plagiarizing, even though it says RT on it. So what I'm saying is the media
didn't learn by lying and losing the election to stop. They think they didn't do enough, but it's
not working. But I happen to know for a fact that they've had all these major so-called news
organizations contacting people I went to high school with. So I've gotten the calls and contacting
old girlfriends and other people and then talking to literal schizophrenics online and crazy people.
There's like four or five women that say I was married to and I've never even met them.
These women, some of them say I'm a reptile from another planet and the media still talks to them.
So I'm just waiting for the new entertainment. By the way, there'll be no apologies here whenever
this BS comes out because it's not there. Somebody says they've got me playing on myself into a webcam,
no they don't because that's never done that. Joe Barton, Texas, if it was consensual,
then it's a whole other story, but is it revenge porn? I don't know. But why would you be doing
that into a webcam? I mean, why do you think you can trust these people you don't know and you're
dealing? That's what marriage is about, is a woman you love and you care about and that you trust
to the keys of the house, the bank account, the whole nine yards. Take care of your ass
when you have a heart attack or a car wreck, man. I mean, I really, one thing about my kids is I'm
wondering which one of these kids is the best? It's going to take care of me. You know, is my
wife going to really take care of me when I get old? That's what this is all about. I mean, I wouldn't,
and it's not that I wasn't a party animal when I was younger,
but I just couldn't randomly have sex with some person I barely knew. Plus I'm married,
but if I wasn't, just because it's all about who the person is and what they stand for and
the fact that you know them. It's not just like jumping bet with somebody. I just, it's just
crazy. And again, doesn't come from some moralistic stand. It comes from an experience of life.
Separately, I got to ask Mike Cernovich before he breaks all this other big news.
He's a hard-working reporter. Mainstream media could run circles around us if they were allowed
to because he's just one guy. I'm a small organization. They've got all this money,
but they've got to go through the chain of command to see what's allowable because they're not their
own people. We are. It means we have the triumphs together. We fail. You know, it's win, lose,
or draw. We're real. But what does Mike Cernovich make of Dan Bongino, the former top secret service
agent on foreign operations, very highly respected, former New York City cop, always telling me on
air, Alex, it's worse than you know. And now he comes out and tells the Clinton operative,
stop saying you were nice to Secret Service. Stop saying she wasn't a pig because she's well
known for that. I've talked to people in Blackwater Secret Service. You know how rude she was.
Bongino would never give secrets. He said, Alex, it's worse than you're saying. I'd say, Dan,
how's it worse? He said, Alex, it's worse. And now he's saying basically hashtag Epstein,
hashtag email gate, hashtag people know. He says, we've got blackberries. We know who was on the
airplane. We know who had their identity covered up. We know who went to the island. The whole
house of cards that appears is starting to come down. I don't think Dan Bongino, a guy that holds
it close to his breast, would be saying this if he didn't know it was all about the hammer. I mean,
are we about to see hammer fall? Well, I mean, here's something that I don't know if you and I
ever talked about or made public. But the reason I knew about Hillary's health is that the secret
service had been, which they never do. If you want to talk about people who never leak, the secret
service, they pride themselves. They don't leak. People who say, oh, I mean, they leaked to us for
the first time ever. People didn't even believe it. Yeah, because they don't leak and they haven't
leaked since I know people all over Secret Service. They're not going to tell you anything. But Hillary
Clinton, they called it hazard pay. And the joke was, you know, how if you're deployed to Iraq,
or Afghanistan, and you're doing a hard mission, you get hazard pay, they called working for Hillary
Clinton a hardship duty and hazard duty. And here's something that hasn't been reported.
Remember when Hillary Clinton had her incident on 9-11? And then she disappeared.
She had to be cleaned up because I don't want to go into detail, but she had an accident.
She defecated on herself. Yeah, she had an accident. And because a lot of people don't know that when
you have Parkinson's and other neurological conditions, you're capable of losing control.
A lot of times we have an epileptic seizure. You have a major bowel movement.
Yeah. So that's why they rushed her over to Chelsea's. And they had to clean her up and
everything like that. And that, of course, comes from Secret Service. And I haven't gotten anything
from them before that or since. And I don't think I'll ever get an answer.
I was about to say, we only got intel from the Secret Service on her falling down. They said
follow her. And it was only that one time people couldn't believe it. And then when it happened,
they got really blown away. Yeah, exactly. So that's how much she abuses the people.
She abuses. And what do you make? What do you make now of them coming out about Biden molesting
little girls and now Bongino coming out? I mean, this shows, I guess they're getting
the green light from Trump or what's going on? Well, I don't know that we want to say
Biden has been molesting anybody. I think we just want to say he's a little creepy.
And that's the kind of thing that we should be asking. But the Secret Service agent said
that it was like wine scene level a little kids. Yeah, you know, we want to be careful,
though, because the media is looking to frame us for so many things. I just think that,
you know, right now you're like the New York Yankees. I'm like the Boston Red Sox.
And, you know, we want to be careful in our wording in our language because
they're waiting for us because we're now in the major leagues, right? We're at the highest level
of the game. So we, you know, there, there are definitely a lot of things about Biden we want
to look at. And those pictures are weird. And if that were any Republican, the media, it would
be all hands on deck. If that was Roy Moore, they'd be convulsing. Yeah, that would be like the
biggest story. I want to be clear. He's not molesting the girls in the videos. The Secret
Service agent says it was wine scene level groping of women and girls. Well, you can just watch the
videos and the New York Times even tried to get the guy banned. The guy who broke the story or
not necessarily broke it, but compiled it all. Sure. The guy that had viral videos with millions of
views. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And the New York Times reporter has said, oh, no, oh, no, this is more
fake news. And they called it an alt-right attack. But it's actually the guy who broke it is half
African American. And he's very just a traditional kind of family values conservative. And the New
York Times is literally on Twitter saying, ban this person, even though all you have to do is look
at the videos. The videos are creepy. There's that video of Jeff Sessions smashing him away.
And he's rubbing her hair. I mean, I have daughter, you have daughters. That isn't normal to rub,
to rub a girl's hair. And they need to ask him about it. So like, like I said, I don't know what
exactly is going on there. But I don't think most, I had parents. I've had, I've not had a single
parent say, oh yeah, that's like totally okay. That's the number one way you come on to a woman
is to rub their hair and rub it on their ear. It's the first thing you do. I mean, it's just like,
it's a boom. It's a come on. Yeah, I haven't had a single parent. I show that those videos to parents,
even liberals and they're like, dude, if some old man was rubbing my daughter's hair and rubbing on
her ear, I'd say, dude, keep your claws yourself. Yeah, you would have something to say about it.
You might not say he's a pedo. Maybe he's just weird or awkward, doesn't have boundaries. And then
of course there's that video of the, or the picture of the, she's a full grown woman, thankfully,
but she's sitting on Joe Biden's lap, like a biker chick and he's caressing her and stuff.
I mean, let's be real, dude. If this were, if this were you or me and there are all these pictures of
us, we would be wall-to-wall coverage. People would be staked out at our house asking questions.
But then when all you do is show the pictures of Biden and don't even editorialize them,
you just show the pictures. The New York Times goes, oh no, we got to ban this guy from Twitter.
How dare we have an African American on Twitter talking bad things about the Democrats.
And notice that's the new thing on Vox and on the Daily Show and on all the
shows, ban, ban, ban. They have tattle shows. They go, look at this guy, ban that guy, look at this guy,
ban that guy. I want to come back and ask you, why is this all happening now? That's the big question.
Where is it going next? And where is Trump doing a great job? But where is he going sideways?
All the latest news coming up, tomorrow's news today with Mike Cernovich straight ahead.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally
come up with a better way. The bug assault. A miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary
table salt as ammunition. Non-toxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget
you have a wife and kids. $39.95 and free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and get an extra
10% off your purchase at bugasalt.com. Makes the perfect stocking stuffer. Get your bug assault today.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon.
Savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10 year shelf life. NASA pack technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to
eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve. Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10 year shelf
life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com. Water is the single most
important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water. The Berkey guy provides the lowest
price filtration systems in every size. For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency,
get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Go Berkey.com. If you or someone you care about
loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for some unique holiday gift ideas.
That's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products for the archer,
hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family. Now through January, use the promo code holiday to
get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada. And from all of us at slingbow industries, have a safe,
joyous and peaceful holiday season. I'm driving home here about to take off a few days for
Thanksgiving. And I just want to impart my message to the listeners and viewers of how much I
appreciate you and how thankful I am. And I also just want to re-emphasize the point that if you
weren't there taking action and if you weren't there spreading the word, globalism would have
completely taken over not just this country but other nations. And globalism is a completely
anti-individual, anti-God, anti-family, anti-Christian cancer that is just pure
power, cult, will to dominate and control society. And that we have come so far with
God's help and have turned the tide but the enemy is tracking back. So just please, we should all
be so thankful to God and thankful to each other for taking action but also girt ourselves and
get ready for the next big fight ahead because history is happening. So for myself and my family,
God bless you all. Have a great Thanksgiving.
The proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended
amount of B vitamins we need every day. Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every
day. Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption. Up, up, up,
optimal absorption. Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and
lethargy. Secret 12, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption. B vitamins help the body convert
food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes. B vitamins are also essential for
the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system. Up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake. Head to infowarslife.com
to support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12. That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The Alex Jones show because there is a war on for your mind. And now your host, Mike Cernovich.
Right, Mike Cernovich cohost with me this hour. I'm going to get out of here at this segment, let him take over, even though he's always inviting me on.
We got the war room coming up at three o'clock. Lil' Troyer.
Everywhere you see the pedophilia breaking in Europe and the Catholic Church and universities in Australia
and sex range, it's how they compromise people. Again, that's how they get control of organizations.
This is enough to have somebody knock over liquor stores. They want the types that will hurt kids.
And look at this. Top brands pull YouTube ads over pedophilia fears. Sky News.
Elsegate, the disturbing YouTube trend that might be terrifying your children,
where they put sick stuff into regular videos that they're labeled family friendly. So your
child sees something sexual or a child being murdered, kids being run over by trains, their
eyeballs being ripped out, happy bunny rabbits and stuff, and the demon kills them. It's the
spiritual religion of lesser magic psychologically hurting. Google acts as a distasteful survey that
asks users to choose an image of a child they like best for pedophilia. Meanwhile, the Colorado
sex trafficking hundreds of children is six months old. He got 472 years. That's Fox News.
But I see articles everywhere saying none of this exists. None of this happens.
None of this is going on. These are really creepy sick people that want innocence. They're demons
that eat innocence. Whether you believe in God or not, this is the manifestation of what it is.
And I want to ask Mike Cernovich in closing before he takes over what the next big shooting
drop is and why this is happening. But first, this is Black Friday and we're running the biggest
specials undoubtedly of the year. And I've got a special running on our best-selling Nutrubbit
that's been sold out for a month. It's back in stock. About to be sold out 50% off on BrainForce,
Silver Bullet, Coil Silver. I use it topically on my gums or on cuts or any other sore throat I use
it. Sometimes when antibiotics aren't working, that's what I use. And thank God for me personally,
it's been just a dream. Super male vitality. But consult your physician and see if you want to
use antibiotics first. I'm just saying it's been known to be something that's in that same spectrum.
Super male vitality, 50% off plus free shipping. Store-wide free shipping,
info wars, high-quality, storeable foods for my Patriot, 50% off. All probes here,
Waterful, they're 25% off. Knockout, sleep aid, 50% off. Living defense, 50% off. Paricycle
lens, cross-tegar, 50% off plus free shipping. All of us got free shipping. Plus many others
at infowarstore.com. And this is a financial war. They're trying to stop us all. They've demonetized
us on YouTube. They've got, you know, their lawsuits and all the rest of stuff. I'm not
liberty to get into it this time. I'm going to be able to get into it very, very soon to get the
war drums going and go on the offensive of what we're going to do. Actually, I see this as an
opportunity to take these people on. But let's just say this, the very Jerry Epstein crowd is,
they're on the war footing because we got them cornered. Just like the NFL that got political,
we're going to ring the alarm bell and we're going to have major, major victory on every front.
Just please, why battle the Christmas crowds? Why battle the Black Friday crowds for crap you
don't need when we've got high quality products you do need that support the info war and a 360
win and infowarstore.com. Okay, Mike, thanks for coming on with us and co-hosting today.
Get into what moment in history are we, what is this paradigm I see of, you know,
Prince Charming kissing, sleeping beauty is now rape. That's got to be banned in the UK.
They're equating a man kissing a woman with a six month old being raped to death by a man in a demon
mask. So they've clearly got something going here. I don't think it's working. There's a revolution
going against the pedophile networks. We know they're using for control. That's been in major
British news, European news. We know about it here now. They've been identified. They've got systems
they use to mitigate it, but I don't see it working for them. What period are we in in history
and how are the pedophile armies going to strike back? Yeah, it's interesting now that all the
YouTube stuff is getting attention. YouTube has been dropped by major advertisers now.
And I think it's interesting that I've had a documentary of mine censored on YouTube.
Paul Joseph Watson has been censored. Even liberals like H3, H3,
liberals, nobody's safe if you're talking about politics. But if you're a pedophile or you're
doing videos on YouTube where you mock, execute children, you tie them up. I sent some images
actually to your staff earlier of a tweet where it shows children tied up, chained. There's an
evil clown with a chainsaw. YouTube will let you monetize those videos and they profit from all of
those videos. And let's be clear. I'm afraid to show it because they'll ban us for showing it,
but they'll let some other group do it. But we should just show your discretion is advised.
So they don't tell you that. They sneak in and there's a happy bunny and then a demon
rips its guts out. They're really scarce kids. I ran into this like a year ago without even knowing
when it was. I was like, what the hell is that? But yeah, that's the hashtag. Let's show some
of the images. Go ahead and show those. Go ahead. Go ahead, Joe. I mean, Joe Rogan's clips there.
It'll show children drinking alcohol. You can see children being intoxicated, drunk.
They have little star emojis on their head. They're falling down, bleeding,
bleeding out of their skull. What it is is porn for losers that want to teach children heart.
This is the pedophile spirit. I can't get enough of them. So this is what this is about.
Yeah. They use cartoon characters and that because what they do is, you know, you, you,
you, you have your children and they're watching very family friendly videos.
They sneak this in and they go, Oh, Mickey Mouse, right? So your child is watching Mickey Mouse and
then they're being drunk and intoxicated, being cut off. There's actually even more
disgusting stuff. Your great friend, Charlie Roselle of Buzzfeed, as you know, you and Charlie
are very, very good friends. And he did a big story on Buzzfeed about these Ukrainian
video videos that were even worse than this kind of stuff. And we've been talking about this for
a long time. Why do the left criticize that? That's what they love. I mean, I mean, we had
Salon saying how great pedophilia was. Well, Buzzfeed is trying to become a little bit more
of a legit media enterprise because they're realizing that Bison's lawn and the pedophile
media networks, people don't want pedophile content. That is a fringe, marginal group of just
deal. And this whole coming out of the pedophiles is backfired on them.
I mean, so, so are they going to back away from Piscay? That's admittedly a false.
Well, there, there, I don't know. I don't know, but I'm just glad to see progress,
Alex. I'm an optimist in that. Well, that's my next question. Why did you give your big
story about John Conyers to Pissfeed? So, because I knew that if I broke it or we broke it,
it would be discredited and no social change would have happened. Sure. I give it the best
way to go after Conyers is in a liberal publication, because then it would devastate.
Exactly. So I had, so why did they still run it though, even though it was hurting their Lord
and Savior? Well, it was too big of a story and they knew that I would have run it anyway.
Right. That's the whole point is I have it and you can say, well, Cernovich is going to run it
or they can develop it and they worked very hard on it independently developed it. So I'll tell
you, Alex, she's honestly, this is one of the most Christian things I've ever done because I was
sick to my stomach because exactly you gave it to them because they could develop it,
prove it up in themselves. But maybe you gave them the big story that you could have had credit
for because it was for the better. Yeah. The glory, you know, it's like they say all glory to God.
Like I was about to throw up because I'm thinking, oh my God, I will be the biggest story for the week.
At least I'll be attacked by the machine and I wanted to embrace it all. But then I realized,
no, we have to protect people from these debits in Congress. We have to just put aside our egos
for the greater good this one time because that's what it's going to take. And as you know,
multiple people in Congress are now saying that they want to unseal all 264 records that all the
coverups have. Let's talk about that because boy, are they scared of that. Our tax money to settle
all their whack-a-mole stuff. Hello, Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on
conservative news sites. We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist. Tired of
your Internet activity being monitored by Big Brother, get virtualshield.com. The world's easiest
to use virtual private network. Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies
in the dust. Get started today at virtualshield.com. Take advantage of our free 30-day trial,
virtualshield.com. You have the right to remain private. A commemorative President Trump dollar
for only $5? Yes, the historic Trump dollar starts at only $5 at trumpdollar.us. Choose from our
unique three-coin collection in gold, silver, and copper. The vote Trump dollar, inaugural Trump
dollar, and make America great again, Trump dollar. Available only at trumpdollar.us.
Minted in the USA, our Trump dollars commemorate President Trump's patriotic stand. Order your
Trump dollar collection today in time for Christmas delivery at trumpdollar.us. That's
Trump dollar.us. America is an information-based civil war. That's why now more than ever we've
got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from
their bullying. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly the
counterculture. The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism,
and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberal. To defend free speech,
meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original designs
of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot Feral at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I know I don't have to remind most of you of the fact that culturally, societally, economically,
spiritually, militarily, the planet's sitting on top of giant time bomb with populations and
globalism, and the new world order's manipulation of people's minds. Things are getting crazy.
We're trying to fix the country and fix the planet. We've also got to have rear-guard
actions to be prepared. The number one thing I forget to write with God is to have high-quality
historical food. Well, the entire line of my Patriot supply foods, private labeled as infowar
select, is now 50% off. I've only done that one time before previously. 50% off, you cannot beat
that, and we're only doing that through Cyber Monday, so it starts today on Thanksgiving
and runs through next Monday. infowarstore.com, you can go right there. It's the full spectrum
of my Patriot, it's private labeled by us, totally fresh, last 25 years, 50% off. 50% off,
take action today. Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2
and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard
seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra-pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to
produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body. With inadequate
thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall
brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your
body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
The Alex Jones Show. Because there is a war on for your mind.
Seeing mainstream media shown to be liars. The fact that Trump was elected really let
everybody know who'd been intimidated. Now is the season to stand up and now it's cascading.
You're gonna have some fake people that jump on the bandwagon and you're gonna have this info
that's mixed in there. But overall this collapse, this tsunami, this mountain slide,
this rock slide of truth is real and it signifies the beginning of a massive turning
that scientists and historians say we're part of historically. Now's the time. History rhymes,
it repeats as well. And so you see the NFL and Hollywood and MTV and Nickelodeon,
they can't help but commit suicide politically. They can't help but do things that are unpopular.
They can't help but destroy themselves because that's their nature. They're part of the old system
that's going out where a bunch of arrogant people got controlled and their kids got controlled and
their kids got control. And it was all about being sellouts. That's what got you ahead. But now
that's coming to an end. It's all about being honorable. Speak to why it's happening now and
who the enemy are. I want your take on that and what you think the next shooting drop is because
they're not giving up. Well it started to break last year which is why you and I were framed and
why a lot of disinfo was spread about a lot of the pedophile stuff and that's why we have to be
very careful now. The next shooting drop I think is going to be false flags sent to us to frame us
to distract from the bigger story because we had always said, we had always said, you and I and
others, there's massive sex abuse going on in Washington is being covered up and then they
go, oh, Alex and Cervish claims that there's an underground dungeon and a parlor like no, we never
talked about that. And the media makes that the big issue. They focus on that. We say, yeah, we
covered people's reports. That isn't real. We'll say we correct. I corrected. But you do them a
favor. Then they act like you're the creator of it. So they distracted from that. But now with the
John Conyers thing, we now have proof that there are secret settlements of abuse. There could be
pedophile stuff in those secret files. That's the whole point. We now have proof with the Conyers story.
And again, that is why I went to an outlet that has been very critical of you and very critical of
me because it's just like what we tell people every day. It isn't about us. It's about America.
It's about the message. It's about putting goodness into the world. And sometimes you work with people
who are maybe being a little hard on you for the greater good of humanity. So now the dam is breaking
in Washington, D.C. and they're off. I agree. The dam is breaking. So far, we've just seen the
beginning of the water. The big day lose is coming. How big is it? What do you expect?
Well, we already know that there are 264 sealed settlements that are official.
And you know, I bet 50 of those are underage pages.
That's my guess because they go back. They go back when the congressional
page program was still around. And I bet you we're going to find all kind of underage stuff
going on in their taxpayer money. One year there was a $4 million with the settlement.
Who really knows what's in there? And that's the whole point is we just wanted to get the truth out
there. And the Conyers settlement wasn't even one of the 264. By the way, I have that chart.
There you go. We have the chart here. And the settlements date back to 1997. The Conyers one
was an off the books one in 2007, $4 million in 2002, $3.9 million. So we're just round up for
2002, $4 million. And again, most of it's off record. This is just a drop in the bucket. Any
idea how big the real settlements are? Exactly. There's no way to tell, but that is why we had
to break the dam with Conyers and now multiple congressmen and women, including Tulsi Gabbard,
Dana Roebacher, Representative DeSantis, they are now saying unseal the deals.
We're going to make it all public. Unseal these records. Even Roebacher, awesome. I'm glad he
got back in Congress. Yeah, Dana Roebacher is amazing. And Tulsi Gabbard is also a real freedom
fighter, even though she's maybe a bit more liberal leftist center. But even DeSantis said,
hey, we have to unseal these records. So there are 264 confidential settlements totaling over
$17 million. That's just based on the books. I think this could be a scandal like the congressional
bank scandal where Congress could look completely different in 2018 because there are hundreds
of congressmen and congressmen. Any word on how if it leans Democrat or Republican, we know both
parties are full of pervs. I mean, well, there's a reason the media didn't chase us down. There's
a reason the media attacked me for the Kanye story, rather than say, oh, wow, there's all
these settlements. Cernovich got one. If he can get one, I feel inspired. I'm going to go try
to get one too, right? Notice they don't do that. That tells you it's probably mostly Democrats,
because otherwise the media would have already got this story and chased down.
Oh, they would have gone completely crazy. If they thought it was 60% Republicans,
they would have gone into connection fets. Exactly. And that's why they attacked me,
because I go to these journalists who are attacking me. I go, why don't you go do some
real journalism? Why don't you try to find out who these other other settlements are involving,
rather than, oh, Mike Cernovich is a mean guy. Did you hear what he tweeted one time? And
let's take them on the context and show unedited videos and blah, blah, blah.
I go, you're a bunch of losers. Okay. Why don't you go out and beat me at my own game,
do some journalism? Well, they don't want to, because they know most of these settlements
are going to involve Democrats and they want to protect the Democrats. That's exactly what's
happening. Mike Cernovich, Et Cernovich, and of course you've got your books and all the rest
of it. I'm going to get out of here and let you take over. He always invites me on a co-host
with him, listeners that I'm trying to hog in on what you're doing. It's just incredible to see
this season of awakening taking place. It's certainly an amazing time to be alive. And I'm
very thankful for the audience and the crew and everybody else for the position we're in.
It really is incredible. Go ahead, Mike.
Yeah, it's big for everybody. Alex, you and I had actually talked about this.
We had mentioned, so we kind of called it before it happened. Remember when the hurricanes
happened, we did a segment where we talked about how this was going to be actually a moment of
human consciousness where we're collectively going to level up? We talked about that.
No, I agree. How do we continue to call stuff? A lot of times without even sources, it's like,
I'm not just saying this, we're dialed into the oracle or something. It really is weird
because I'll just say stuff that comes out of my gut too. And you too, it just keeps coming true.
Exactly, because you could feel the mood of the nation had lifted
where everybody was coming together and then the goodness and the virtue call it spiritual,
people call whatever they want to do. I don't care what a person's religion is or if they're not.
People are sick of the hate. You could just sense it. Yeah, you could just sense that everybody was
like, I'm tired of Trump is evil. Alex Jones is evil. Senator Mitch is evil. People go, no, look,
Hurricane Harvey, people came together, all races, all religions and united. And that was a unique
one. We said this, we can find a clip. We said this is a once in a generation opportunity
for our collective consciousness to level up. And then all of a sudden now you have,
because when you live in a better environment, you become more courageous and you want to fight
for what's good and not for what's bad. So then Ronan Farrow, who's a very liberal guy,
finally said, you know what? I'm going to take on Hollywood. I'm going to take on the establishment,
the damn breaks. And now you have people like me saying, look, we're going to take on Congress.
We're now the dam is broken in Congress. And next thing you know, YouTube is saying, oh,
yeah, you're right. We've had pedophile stuff on our websites for years and never did anything about
it. But you just said it. We have to get ready to win big. But then once we win, we've got to be
ready to deliver and be moral, replacing the people that we just took out. Because evil is
not invincible. It always acts like it is until it falls. Are we actually beginning to see the
fall of evil to a great extent? We're seeing a change in season of definitely where it is going
to become cool to be a moral person. It's going to become cool to be opposed to the pedophiles,
to the deviants, to the degenerates. That's what is happening culturally. And evil never goes
away just as goodness never goes away. They're always in opposition. And right now it's up to
all of us and everybody listening to try to spread spread goodness. But good is getting the upper
hand. The good is getting the upper hand and they're panicking. Mike's turning a bit straight ahead.
I'm driving home here about to take off a few days for Thanksgiving.
And I just want to impart my message to the listeners and viewers of how much I appreciate
you and how thankful I am. And I also just want to re-emphasize the point that if you weren't
there taking action, and if you weren't there spreading the word, globalism would have completely
taken over not just this country but other nations. And globalism is a completely anti-individual,
anti-God, anti-family, anti-Christian cancer that is just pure power cult will to dominate
and control society. And that we have come so far with God's help and have turned the tide,
but the enemy's tracking back. So just please, we should all be so thankful to God and thankful to
each other for taking action. And also, girt ourselves and get ready for the next big fight
ahead because history is happening. So for myself and my family, God bless you all. Have a great
Thanksgiving. America is an information-based civil war. That's why now more than ever we've
got to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from
their bullies. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate
is truly the counterculture. The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America,
pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberal. To defend free speech,
meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original designs
of high-quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the Second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this. But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean,
I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at
infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best
fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it. You
cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well. infowarstore.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are,
and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense
probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body. Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal
function. Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health, and support the info war.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
And now your host Mike Cernovich.
And we're back, Mike Cernovich, facebook.com forward slash Mike Cernovich, viral videos,
breaking news, nonstop 24 seven. Right now we had a story come in that is consistent with what a lot
of you know, namely an SJW, a feral leftist has learned that what you can get away with on a college
campus, well, it's a little bit different than real life. And moreover, a lot of people are doing what
I've told them to do. I've had multiple people arrested actually for assault, which no conservative
would ever do because they're like, well, you know, just take it, take the abuse. And I go, no,
you don't just take the abuse, call the police. So there's now breaking news. A student is accused
of snatching a make America grading and hat from a Trump supporter may face a year in jail.
So here's what happened. There's a video of that that went viral a little while ago.
A college student was on campus, a college Republican and a student came in and yanked
the hat off the person's head. Wouldn't give it back. Police were involved. This student is now
facing a year in jail. And this is, this is what keeping it real goes wrong. They go, man,
F your laws. So the person who stole the hat, he's, you know, she, I think it was a woman. I'm
not even sure anymore. I don't want to miss Jen or anybody, you know, Edith Macias. I don't want
to say if that's a woman or a man, you know, because I don't want to get banned from the
internet because as we know, as YouTube has shown, if you misgender somebody, then you can get banned
from the internet. But if you do pedophile videos, then YouTube will sell advertising based on that
and profit from it. So Edith Macias took a hat and the person who was a crime victim said, you
know, give me my hat back. And Macias replied, man, F your laws. You're effing freedom of speeches,
genocide, homeboy. Is that what you're trying to represent? Please have to come in and take action.
So this is the lawlessness now that you've had. You've had coming from the left.
And people have accepted it. They think that they can come in and just commit any crime that
they want to commit. But if you actually do commit crime, and in this case is an escalated
elevated misdemeanor, because physical force was used to steal that. So generally grand theft is
property theft over 400. Well, this is violence was used to take this hat. Now a lot of people go,
oh, Cernovich, you're being too sensitive. They're just kind of snatching your hat and just look,
these people are criminals. They are running wild. They are committing violent acts everywhere you
go. They sucker punch people. They're macing people. If we find them on a technical legal
violate, I call the police on them. Again, I got five people arrested last year. And I'm actually
quite proud of myself for doing that. Three women assaulted somebody and we call the police on them
and the police goes, well, they threw guacamole at a bunch of us. Actually, I don't know if I
ever told the story. But I was covering a pro Trump rally. This was during the campaign towards
the end of the election. And there was a popup rally in West Hollywood. The bar owner said, hey,
you know, we want to show you that even if you don't agree, you can be fine. So a bunch of people
went to this restaurant with pro Trump regalia on Trump hats. The food was literally thrown.
There was a riot inside the restaurant. And the Trump supporters, the owner said, look,
I'm really sorry, but this is violent. You know, would you guys just please leave and Trump supporters
always being classy? He said, okay, they'll leave. They were throwing food, guacamole,
you know, the things were thrown. And I actually, an African American gentleman who was there said,
you know, I'm actually a liberal and I don't like Trump, but I'm embarrassed by what I just saw.
But they're out of control. So then what happened is one of the women or two of the
women came in and they grabbed this guy's hair and then one of them took his phone and threw it
down. We had it on video. We call the police. The police came and they were mad because they were
obviously Hillary people. They were mad that we call the police and they go, we're not going to
arrest her. This is nothing. Just get over it. And I said, look, I'm a lawyer. What you're doing
right now is a civil rights violation. You're engaging in discrimination based on a political
viewpoint. And that's a violation of the Equal Protection Clause, Equal Protection Clause,
the Constitution. And they glared at me. They go, get over there. Get over there. And I go,
look, I can stand here and watch. I go, I just do want to let you know, here's my bar card.
You know, I have a California, I am a licensed attorney in California. I said, here's my bar
card. I just do want to let you know that I am an attorney and that if action isn't taken, I will
be suing you for civil rights violations because this is unconstitutional. And then they realized,
okay, they have to enforce all equally. They knew because I would have sued them for sure in a
second because if they don't want to enforce the Constitution, they have an obligation to.
Doesn't matter who you vote for, if you're a police officer, you have to treat everybody equally.
And the next thing you know, these women were put in the backseat of a police car charged with
assault, criminal assault. You can find the docket. I even posted all the information,
the docket sheet and everything. And I've had other people arrested too. So if you're a Trump
supporter and somebody steals your hat, if they throw something at, that's assault. If they spit
at you, that's assault. Get it on camera, call the police. A friend of mine, R.C. Maxwell,
was sucker punched at a pro-Trump rally. He's an African-American Trump supporter.
He was sucker punched at a pro-Trump rally, a video of that surfaced. So you know what I did?
I offered a $1,000 reward. See, the media never tells about this. And then they go,
oh, Cernovich is always promoting himself and talking about himself. The media never talks
about the good that I do in the world. So I saw that an African-American Trump supporter had been
sucker punched and I put it on Twitter. I would give a $1,000 reward to the first person who
identifies the assailant. Exactly. A Trump supporter. So Washington Post for their credit
did cover this in August. A Trump supporter was sucker punched by a counter-protester.
Why isn't it a hate crime? So when I saw this man who I've met, he's a friend of mine. I don't know,
friend, I like him. He likes me kind of thing. And I said, this is wrong that he was sucker punched.
I offered a $1,000 reward to the person who found it. Sure enough, we identified, not we, but a
friend of his or somebody identified the assailant. The assailant pled guilty to criminal assault.
He was actually arrested. The man who was sucker punched and a hate crime, this African-American
American Trump supporter, he was actually trying to flee. He was trying. There you can see it.
We're watching right now in video and in the highlighted image. You can see a white person come,
sucker punch a black Trump supporter. Well, isn't that interesting? You know, let's zoom in on it.
So we have an African-American Trump because, but Trump supporters were racist. You know,
we hate black people. We hate everybody, you know, but this white man, this white guy comes in,
sucker punch is a Trump supporter. When I saw that, I said, I will not, I will not stand for
this. I will not allow this hate crime to happen, this hate crime to go and check. So I did. Yeah,
I offered $1,000 for the identification of the thug who punched the black Trump supporter.
And we were able to identify him and I did pay out that reward. I don't know if I wrote a story
about it, but I am tweeted out a link to it, to Brown Hannity, I believe who it was. So
R.C. Maxwell calls himself Black Hannity and this other guy calls, he's Hispanic calls himself
Brown Hannity. So I did tweet out public recognition and gratitude for him. And this guy,
you know, he was identified and he was trying to flee the state and he was charged with assault.
He now has a criminal record. He is now a criminal. So those of you who try to understand how we're
a little bit different here, how we're a little different. Well, the national review and all
these kind of old school William F. Buckley conservatives would say, oh, take the high road.
There is no high road when you're a crime victim. I don't go around punching people.
I don't go around putting my hands on people. I don't go around sucker punching African-American
Hillary supporters, right? So when they commit a crime, if they steal your hat,
they assault you, they vandalize your car, if they're committing crimes against you,
involve the police immediately and get them arrested, lock them up. They are criminals.
They are thugs. And the media, if you're listening in here in the mainstream media,
quit enabling this kind of behavior. Start actually covering the violence against Trump supporters
because, you know, I'm a Trump supporter. If I sneeze on somebody, they'll go, oh, Sernovich,
put poison gas on people. I can't believe it. Terrorism. You charge them under the Patriot Act.
You put them away. I can't believe it. He sneezed on somebody. Chemical warfare.
But then when you have a white Hillary person, sucker punch, an African-American Trump supporter,
oh, well, you know, let's just pretend that didn't happen. CNN isn't going to cover that.
Hate crimes against Trump supporters. So if you're in the media and you're mad about me
and you want to write little hate articles about me, I will tell you in the last 30 seconds,
by the way, you can go to facebook.com forward slash Mike Sernovich to learn more.
Here's how to beat Mike Sernovich. Do real journalism. Call out the violence against
Trump supporters. Quit covering up Bill Clinton's rapes. Quit covering up for Al Franken. Quit
trying to claim that Al Franken didn't really grow up as an air group. Quit covering up for
Conyers. Quit worrying so much about me and Alex Jones and everybody else. Do real journalism.
You have way more money than we do. You'll be able to run us out of business in a second.
