We are on the March, the Empire is on the run, Alex Jones and the GCN Radio Network.
Theodore Kaczynski, the Unabomber, volunteered for the MKUltra Mind Control Program.
Now I'm not talking about the MKUltra Mind Control Program of Netflix hit show Stranger Things,
I'm talking about the real MKUltra Mind Control Program that was carried out on college campuses
and other facilities across the country in the late 1960s, from San Francisco, California to Austin,
Texas to the Chicago Business School in Chicago, Illinois to Harvard University on the East Coast
to MIT. And so you'll hear people say, oh, it's a conspiracy theory that Charlie Manchin was a
Satanist or it's a conspiracy theory that Hollywood was into Satanism. That's the headlines,
but if you go back to the 60s, there was a law enforcement craze, they called it,
that law enforcement was claiming there was all this Satanism. No, there was Satanism,
there was massive human sacrifice going on, and it was being done to enter in the new age
to have Lucifer exterminate 90% of the world's population and then have humans merge with
machines and become the new Godmen. Now I talked about that in my film 10 years ago, Endgame.
Suddenly this last week, there were London Guardian, Associated Press, Reuters stories
about, oh, this tech head from Google has left to start his new worship, the AI cult,
and all these famous people are part of it. Oh, he'll be the leader now. It just came out of
nowhere. It's the same plan. It originated in London, England in 1855. It is a long term
world government project whose end game is to exterminate the majority of the world population
to save the earth. And then they're going to have the enlightened folks move forward,
transcend, and I have a stack of it right here. And they just think you're stupid. They
just think you're complete and total morons and that you're not going to understand this.
This is their religion. This is their program. It's to shut down the family. It's destroy
questions. It is to pull down civilization and society just like the French Revolution
tried to do. Overthrow decency, overthrow success, overthrow beauty, overthrow honor,
desecrated, blaspheming. And every day, there's TV ads saying fathers are bad, masculinity
is bad, families are evil. Get rid of them. This is the program. And you've got all these
zombie-like acolytes that everybody got to witness this last weekend across the country
at more anti-fidemonstrations who can't even talk and just scream and yell and grunt and
flip people off. And this is a program. So you hear the same thing out of Charles Manson,
the same thing out of Theodore Kaczynski, the same thing out of these guys because they
came out of the same colleges. They went to the same college. And Manson was part of a
CIA mind control program. He wrote songs with the Beach Boys. He knew most of the big Hollywood
stars. He was invited into their houses because he was a bag man for the CIA who was delivering
the drugs into the circles to begin the mind control operations. And Hollywood knows this.
They've put movies out kind of a modern fiction contemporary, but based back in the 60s and
70s in California where it's the FBI that's actually handing out the drugs and the LSD
because that's who was actually doing it. But again, it was compartments of the FBI.
Jack Parsons in the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and all of them having big sex orgies. I mean,
this was the end thing to do and they were able to use Satanism and drugs as a program
to really take over a lot of civilization and compromise people in human sacrifice.
And then it goes into pedophilia. Sharon Tate was married to Roman Polanski. We'll be back.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting
edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids. One of them is a powerful
pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolife advanced restoration. And we also have an every day extremely affordable
fluorolife every day maintenance. But all of these are the very cutting edge top of the
line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price. That is my goal
here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price. When you purchase it and then
for store.com, you know, you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense
of our republic and freedom worldwide. The globalist great error is to believe that as
they collapse humanity, they end up on top. The truth is, humanity is coming down fast.
I'm Alex Jones. Thank you for joining us on this Monday, the 20th day of November, 2017.
Now back then, it was really weird and crazy to have somebody on PCP and LSD running around
killing beauty queens and coffee baronesses. It was a big, big deal. It was shocking. But
nowadays, everybody's crazy. This is the godfather of the Antifa movement. This is the godfather
of the modern environmental movement. This is a man that wanted 90% of the world's population
to be exterminated by a world government. And a man who wanted to ignite the breakdown
of civilization by causing race war, playing different ethnic and religious groups off against
each other around the world in a divide and conquer strategy. The truth is, Charlie Manson
was inducted into a higher level CIA DARPA mind control program and inserted into the
highest levels of rock and roll movies. He knew all the major folks co-wrote songs for
the Beach Boys, the list goes on and on and was delivering large amounts of pure weapons
grade LSD to campuses all over California. Then the windup toy either went off the rails
or was ordered to carry out the murders. We don't know still to this day, but he was CIA
100%. They had mind control programs going on right here at the University of Texas in
the 60s and at other major universities. Charlie Manson hung around the same university that
Theodore Kaczynski, the unabomber, went to and volunteered for the MK Ultra program.
It's kind of like volunteering to jump into a hornet's nest because once you're on those
drugs, there's no more volunteering. You didn't know what you were getting into. But this
is the program. Sex, drugs, luring in the police, luring in the FBI, luring in all
the politicians to get dirt on them. What was big and bad and evil in the 1960s to the
Puritan America devil worship. But if you could get people to worship the devil to have
sex with super hot movie stars, what next it was we need you to kill somebody. And that's
what Charlie Manson was about. He was one MK Ultra tentacle that went sideways. And then
they used it to create the whole new popular culture where it's so cool to be whacked out
of your brain, a shaman who knows everything and can do everything and has got your cult
of trendies that go from being hippies to being cold-blooded murders. That's always
what it is. First they get you peace and love and nirvana and you can do anything and all
of a sudden, but there's a price to pay. There's always a Dracula in the shadows. We can put
Sharon Tate up behind me here from one of the horror movies she was in and movies about
Satanism and movies about human sacrifice and movies about burning men and movies about
the royal Rothschild estates and the estates dying and there's poverty in the village until
the owner of the estate is willing to be sacrificed for the good of everyone. I mean this is nothing
but French Revolution, Jacobian manipulation. The whole revolution you're seeing is French
Revolution part two. They saw we were launching ours in 1776 for the real New Atlantis, for
the Francis Bacon, the real Rosicrucian Order, Esoteric Christianity and they created their
counterfeit which is just every flavor of rebellion, death, degradation and it's all
about psychopathic men being able to have women and others programmed and under their
control to do horrible things. And boy Charlie Manson was jealous of the cult above him.
He was getting kicked out of that cult. They weren't being nice to him anymore. So what
did he do? He went and killed their high priestess. He told people he did too. He went and killed
their goddess. He went and killed who they thought was the number one woman in the Hollywood
cult of Roman Polanski and others. While he was out of town, they killed her and they
killed his baby. They showed him what would happen if Charlie Manson didn't get to stay
in the cult. Charlie Manson created a list of people that weren't partying with him anymore
and weren't buying his LSD anymore and he went in there and he killed them. And that
my friends is the rest of the story of Charlie Little Man Manson. All that stuff he was saying.
People were like, wow, this guy is really smart. He's spewing everything that the eugenicists
and the globalists have been spewing. That's their religion. Charlie Manson is a whacked
out street level con man that they used to go around and control people because he was
expendable. He was just one more little power tripping person that thought he was God who
wanted to be a cult leader. When all he really was was an icon being created to introduce
the second Jacobin revolution inside this country. And see, if you know the group, if
you know their religion, if you know their program, overthrow the family, break everything
up, then you know why you see the shaving ads out where men are bad. We must stop toxic
masculinity. That story is on infowars.com. You know why we're saying you can't say the
word mother and father. That's the new word to be banned by Facebook saying it's hurtful.
You think I'm joking? They're moving forward with it. Don't be stoic. Don't be a rock.
Don't be strong. It actually says in the ad, be weak. It actually says it's time for a
new definition of masculinity and we're going to tell you what that definition is. It's
a silent ad. You have to go see it at infowars.com. This is their program. This is their operation.
Overthrow everything. They've got 25% of the population on psychotropic drugs that are
in the hallucinogen class. They've now got weaponized marijuana being put out to the
George Soros movement that is hallucinogenic. And I'm not calling for making marijuana illegal.
I'm a libertarian. They want to have the dialectic of putting the drugs out and having you use
it and putting you in prison. I'm against that. But people need to understand that this
is a very, very serious situation and it's part of a larger operation to put you into
a near dream state so that you're not really conscious. Row, row, row your boat gently
down the stream. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily life is but a dream. If I wanted to
come on this show and talk to you like they do on NPR to put you into a trance, I could
do it. But on purpose, I have a grating voice to get you out of your coma, to shake you
free out of it. You know, if I wanted to, I could talk just as sweet and just as pretty
as all these fake people, but I don't do that. I let you hear my real voice. And it's everything
they hate. It's masculine. It's grating. It's like an alarm in the night. It's like a Marine
Corps drill sergeant. But I'm not copying a Marine Corps drill sergeant. Drill sergeants
are trying to encompass the classic status of a male instructing people in serious, dangerous
things that affect their life so people listen so they understand what's going on. So you've
been warned. So if you've got what it takes, you'll listen. If you don't, you were warned.
We did our job. Coming up, we got a bunch of clips of Charlie Manson. You'll think you're
listening to Al Gore talk, the original SJW and so much more. This is going to be a jam-packed
transmission. Newswars.com, prisonplanet.com and infowars.com. It is an act of resistance
to the globalist when you hand share those links because we're being totally censored.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed
with a 10-year shelf life, NASA pack technology. Bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and served. Lifesaving, ready to eat bacon. 10-year
shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance. Become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses. Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families. Choose
from three health sharing programs. Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See
the guidelines. Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy. Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Hello, Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news
sites. We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist. Tired of your internet
activity being monitored by Big Brother, getvirtualshield.com. The world's easiest to use virtual private
network. Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust. Get
started today at virtualshield.com. Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Want revenge on the common housefly? Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come
up with a better way. The bug assault. A miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt
as ammunition. Nontoxic and no batteries required. So much fun. You'll forget you have a wife
and kids. $39.95 and free economy shipping. Use discount code GCN and get an extra 10%
off your purchase at bugassault.com. Makes the perfect stocking stuffer. Get your bug
assault today.
Thousands of years ago, there was a basic form of chivalry. Our ancestors would hear
the drums of war, giving the warriors of the tribe a chance to organize and prepare a defense.
60 years ago, when foreign air forces were approaching filled with bombs, they had drums
of their own, air raid sirens. But in the 21st century, there are silent weapons for
quiet war. Pathogens added to the food and water, to the lining of plastics that destroy
our vitality. Turn off our hormones and accelerate our journey towards death. I personally counter
this onslaught with Anthroplex. Anthroplex is designed with known organic concentrated
herbs to create the basic foundation to normal metabolic activity inside the human body.
Discover why Anthroplex has turned so many heads today. It's time for us to take our
bodies back into our own hands and it starts at infowarslife.com with Anthroplex.
The proper B-vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended
amount of B-vitamins we need every day. Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. B-vitamins we
need every day. Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption. Being deficient in B-vitamins can cause fatigue,
depression, poor memory and lethargy. Secret 12, up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B-vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes.
B-vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels. Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin
B12 intake. Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret
12. That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to InfoWars Live with yours truly, Alex Jones. Thank you so much for joining
us. Well, Charles Manson is dead and that is the big story around the world. And if
you study Charles Manson and the Manson family and what went on there, it was the fact that
the entire country at that point had been turned into a CIA mind control laboratory.
The universities were being flooded with hallucinogenic drugs. The owners of Time Life and others
on the East Coast since the 30s had been taking LSD since it had been discovered in Switzerland.
But they were taking a lot of other drugs and these are the most straight-laced, richest
people in the country. We go to the history books, they were taking LSD, they've been
taking peyote and other witches brews for a long time. But there's a headline right
there, the Time and Life of an Acid Trip, How Henry R. Loose and Claire Booth Loose
Help Turn America On to LSD. And again, that's the publishers, some of the biggest publishers
in U.S. history. So, again, these are old people in suits and ties decades before in
the late 30s and of the 40s and 50s taking hallucinogenic drugs, part of cults, part
of spiritual cults, and they weren't all devil worshipers. But it was a lot of really heavy
stuff. They then developed a plan by the early 60s to flood all the major universities after
they tested the drugs on people inside the CIA, inside the military, top generals all
took it. They then set out on a plan that had already been set up by the British to
set up the world government, then shut down the family, start flooding the population with
pharmaceutical drugs, and to come out with pharmaceutical drugs that had you in an LSD
state, but you were still somewhat conscious. You weren't seeing hallucinations, but you
were in a dream state, but still somewhat conscious in between those two states. And
by the way, if you're a radio listener, while I'm talking on the radio, the crew is just
typing them what I've said, CIA, flooding the streets with LSD, and we're showing you
history channel. We're showing you Associated Press. We're showing you Time Magazine. This
is all incontrovertible history. They're San Francisco Chronicle. When the CIA ran an LSD
sex house in San Francisco, well, that's just one sex house. And again, ladies and gentlemen,
it's really just because the people at the CIA wanted to have whorehouses in every town
that were taxpayer paid for that they could enjoy. And a lot of girls were showing up
in LA in San Francisco to be movie stars, so they would be there and just pick them
off, you know, the Greyhound buses and induct them into CIA operations, use them as sex
operatives, you name it. And this is a big story, but Charlie Manson is only just one
guy they put into things, and he wrote not just one, but several songs with the Beach
Boys and other bands, and he got to know the main Hollywood crew, and he got to learn
not just from the CIA and the drugs he was being given, but from all the different cults
in Hollywood, how things ran and who really ran the world and what the plan was. So when
you hear a guy that probably took LSD over a thousand times, looking completely insane,
looking like a cross between a homeless person and a guru, gibbering all this, you say,
where does he get it? He got it directly from their battle plan. Yeah, there's the founder
of the Beach Boys with Charlie Manson right there. So this was going on. And they had
Charlie Manson types who were the gurus over the universities in every city. And again,
that was somebody if things went wrong, could be destroyed. And the reason I mention all
that is coming up in the next segment, I'm going to play a bunch of clips of Charlie
Manson and you're going to go, wait a minute, this is everything the Democrats and Al Gore
and Antifa and George Soros says. And then you see Alex Soros and all these parties drugged
out of his mind, spewing the same crap and they're carrying some lady in a coffin behind
him in one photo, they're spirit cooking. They're doing Alistair Crowley magic, just
like Jack Parsons and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory out there in NASA. They literally
went and bought the biggest oldest Gothic mansions they could all over the country and
had eyes wide shut parties and they got the mayor and they got your daughter and they
got your son involved. And that's how they took over. And that's what we're dealing
with folks is a bunch of pedophile devil worshipers today, because now it's not sick
enough to just, you know, have sex with hot chicks on altars. That's just the entry way
into it. It gets much worse, the blood drinking. But that's not enough. You got to ship out
factor eight to millions of people with HIV and hepatitis in it and give it to everybody
and you got to legalize given blood if you've got HIV in California to spread that that's
human sacrifice and you've got to sexualize children in a young age and you've got to
give them fluoride and you've got to give them Prozac and you've got to give them Ritalin
and you've got to bombard them with GMO. You've got to slowly sacrifice the whole planet.
So Charles Manson is a Renfield that blew its gasket and thought it was a Dracula. That's
the best thing. We know he worked for the CIA and other groups that was protected and
he blew a gasket and thought he was Dracula. He thought he was the big powerful leader.
He thought he was in charge. He thought he was the big Lucifer and he was going to launch
the big global meltdown and the worldwide extermination and you go out to these Antifa
parades and they all men and women look just like him. They're crazed. They got an evil
spirit in them and all they want to do is hang you up by your toes and rip your guts
out and roll around and hit them on the ground. They can murder a pregnant beauty queen, murder
one of the favorite girls of Dracula. Then that kind of makes you Dracula, doesn't it?
And that's why he's praised by the lower level minions because they in the psychopathic
order want to be Dracula, you see. They want to be the archetypal Dracula of the Prince
Charles, the direct line of Dracula. They want to be on the throne and you know what?
This little Renfield, he killed one of Dracula's winches. That makes him a big man. We come
back. The SJW grandfather, the LSD CIA MK ultra monkey boy, Charles Manson, ladies and
gentlemen, the whole story, the rest of the story, hidden news from 40 plus years ago
now revealed today because you don't just get tomorrow's news today or the news of ten
years ago that was hidden now today. You get it from thousands of years ago, hidden until
now. Infowars.com, newswars.com are our main sites. They're under constant globalist attack.
The enemy is doing everything they can to shut us down because we can see for miles.
We are on the march. The empire is on the run. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Why new manna, Stormy Foods? We believe in freedom. America needs strong independent
families to endure what's ahead and we take this charge seriously. We got options, organic,
no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value. New manna is a no lose investment
for your family's food independence. Get your new manna today. Call 888-597-0775.
888-597-0775. Online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com. Most people think life
insurance pays after you're dead. That's true. But did you know you can have tax free
access to your life insurance while you're still alive? You can use the life benefits
of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees. No stock market
risk, no tax risk and no penalties. Call Life Benefits if you'd like a free book about
how this can be done. Call 702-660-7000. That's 702-660-7000.
America is an information based civil war. That's why now more than ever we've got to
hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their
bullying. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate
is truly the counter culture. The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America,
pro-capitalism and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is
a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide.
We've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women
as well as more Patriot Apparel at infowarstore.com. Be part of the second American Revolution at
infowarstore.com. I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes
here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or
water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution. I mean, I cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that
you purchase the products at infowarstore.com. I don't want to thank everybody that has, but
we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality
atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash
designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarstore.com or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic
pedophile armies. And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming
back against us so we need your support. Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival
Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard
seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99%
ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to
produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate
thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield
X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Leading a frontal assault on the lives of the New World Order, it's Alex Jones on the GCN
radio network. Well Charlie Manson's dead and his death gives us a window
and his life gives us a window into how the globalist operate and what their program is.
And if you go back to again ancient Japan just with sex and opium they had different
schools of assassins where people would volunteer to want to be part of the different societies.
One of them was the ninja it's not just in Hollywood movies who would then go kill a high
profile target after generally a decade of training after being accepted and then would
commit sepicoob after they killed the person they were targeting because then you couldn't
tell who carried out the murder. Now that was with opium and sex. Can you imagine what the
Luciferians the psychopaths can do with the high tech drugs and now microchips and electroshock
and things that are way, way, way, way, way past the things that have been declassified.
Then they have hit TV shows like Stranger Things that takes real programs and exactly how they do it
telling folks you're doing a drug trial test and nine months later you know they cut your baby
out of you and say that there was a miscarriage and then induct your child into mind control from
the day it's born. Skinner and a bunch of these other top psychologists and psychiatrists famously
would do things like raise their own kids in cages but it was okay because it was called research
and all it is is psychopaths and hundreds of different programs being funded to develop new
technologies over the mind, over the body and now you see how Pavlovian it is that oh when you
get an update from Facebook or Twitter there's a ding on your phone and it's all been Pavlovianly
tested the perfect little ding, the perfect little vibration, the perfect colors, the way it's
presented to give you a dopamine rush and then the head engineers go on television and tell Ted Talk
we're abusing people we're mind controlling them and this is only phase one why would they tell you
that it's not because they're so good it's because there's metaphysical rules they follow
where they believe they have to tell you what they're doing to you or karmically it comes back
on them so they will warn you hi I'm Count Dracula can you invite me into your house you know you
really shouldn't invite people in you don't know but would you invite me in well sure you seem like
a nice fella what twinkly eyes you have come on in now he can come back any time he wants
that's why there's all these articles admitting screen time is mesmerizing you screen time is
lowering your IQ screen time is putting you into a mesmerized close to sleep state oh there's all
these big mainstream articles five yg five g all this stuff is literally frying it definitely gives
you cancer but it's okay we're going to put them in every classroom we're going to put them in your
house we're going to put them in all the new appliances in all the new cars where you won't
have a choice and we're going to track you in real time we're going to tax you we're going to
control you and we're going to oscillate the five g waves the DARPA about 17 years ago in the
baltimore sun just had the craziest article interviewing DARPA going yeah we're putting
up towers in in in maryland just on the cell towers and that are going to send out some waves
some some some some higher waves higher powered waves just testing that could look at calming
the public in the future and the article went on DARPA created the internet and they're good people
in the advanced laboratories and it's just and that was a test put it in the newspaper you open
the newspaper up one time they admitted they put oscillators in the cell towers dick
they've got studies out on what you can do with these systems birds will just fall out of trees
and won't care if ants eat them they can make you just go to sleep flip the switch everybody just
whoa lies down you don't think the pentagon doesn't want those type of weapons and you don't think
the globalists that put fluoride in the water and all the rest of stuff to hurt us wouldn't use that
and that's they know we know about fluoride now and the adjuvants in the water and they're moving
away from that program because they know most of you're filtering your water and they're going to
electromagnetic just like dr nick baggages said we should get back on the show very very soon he
said forget the chemicals alex that's the child's play because they have to you know get into your
body they're going with 5g technology he said this 15 years ago but don't worry la times just
says slight increase in tumors no big deal slight my butt
3g is so strong that it can look through walls when it's bouncing back at its receiver
5g can give you total color through multiple structures and they it's been on helicopters
for decades flying around looking through your walls they had particle beams 30 years ago mounted
on helicopters flying around frying people they used it in the Panama attack they got everything
and there's this whole walled off civilization
that now is growing to the point of emerging and when the global government emerges when
this emerges that means everybody starts dying see it's been being it's being built
siphoning off our resources taking control of us dumbing us down playing us off against each other
for decades and decades and decades but now it's going to the point where it's about to be born and
just like an alien from the movie alien it's been laid in your stomach it's been feeding off you
inside now when it comes out you die we die when it's born we die that's their religion we have to
die before they can have their new age world government oh what comes after smartphones
brain implants maybe see mainstream news they've gone from it'll never happen Alice Jones is insane
there's no DARPA plan to do it too it's been done to over 10 000 troops they admit so far
and now they're saying hey just get a chip it's quick it's easy and my uncle has one and it helps
him not have epilepsy from a motorcycle accident but the point is it's all trojan horse it's all
first gen it's all being deployed by the globalist we're going to go to break them back and play
the Charlie Manson clips we have a bunch of guests coming on but that's what this is all about
and if you're conscious of the engineering we can stop it together and be aware of it but it's
all being rolled out by the tech giants they announced this weekend they're going to have a
one-world religion based on worshiping AI and everyone will have to submit to it other religions
will be banned you can't criticize any other religion and then you've got to just make them all one
big thing just like they tell you in the movie Tron everything is them telling you the big giant
mainframe and it's grabbing in all other programs put him on the grid let him play for a while and
then blow him away something different about this one the new church of the AI god is even creepier
than i imagined CNET says what did Elon Musk warn you in the last few months he goes watch out for
tech leaders coming out saying AI gods i can't get into it i've signed non-disclosures but
it's dangerous we're all in danger we're all in danger on the left side i can't wait to merge
with it yeah now don't say mother and father masculinity's bad it's literally be weak be weak
you will assimilate you will assimilate resistance is futile resistance is futile they're just
telling you and then their minions look like methhead charlie mansons they can't talk they're
slaves after years of research working with top developers here in the united states with the
latest cutting-edge science we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids one of them is a
powerful pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down meat other proteins better
and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolive advanced restoration and we also have an everyday extremely affordable
fluorolive everyday maintenance but all of these are the very cutting-edge top-of-the-line
probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price that is my goal here is to bring
you the very best at the lowest price when you purchase it and then for store.com you know you
are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide
america is an information-based civil war that's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets
of america and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bullies we're
only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship being a conservative
a nationalist a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture
the real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro america pro capitalism and pro freedom who at
the same time is tolerant modern liberalism is a counterfeit of thomas geverson's classical
liberalism they are the anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote
freedom worldwide we've got more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women
as well as more patriot feral at infowarstore.com be part of the second american revolution at
infowarstore.com you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life our
organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan
lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the
night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture
harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep you deserve
and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and say goodbye to fatigue
that's info wars life dot com i am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
info wars biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function our
researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on
the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info wars life
dot com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've been testing
this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public so please take advantage
of it today support your own health and support the info war you're listening to the alex jones show
i love this song that's right give me liberty or give me death i'm alex jones your host thank
you so much for joining us okay let me get right back into the news so the scientific elite starting
in the 1850s in britain with the main governing system of the world at that time being the british
empire made the decision to establish world government true world government not just empire
and they decided to use science to do it and always be so ahead of everybody else that they
couldn't be defeated not just militarily but culturally where there aren't any families anymore
people are programmable that's the final revolution is what the globalist technocrats call it and
they've written books they've written white papers they have conferences they had a consensus 160 years
ago this plan was publicly launched 170 something years ago and they had a consensus
just a decade later and so that's why i'm so frustrated what i'm telling you is what they've
said that's why when you hear charlie manson you go that sounds like ted turner or that sounds
like bill clinton or that sounds like al gore or that sounds like lord rothschild or that sounds
like prince philip or that sounds like prince charles because that's what their religion is
your animals you need to die there's too many people but then they grease the skids to make
us as dumb down as possible to make that a self-fulfilling prophecy and they drug us and
they poison us and they do everything they can paul watson has the article on info wars.com
charles manson the eco warrior who wanted to kill humans to save the earth
notorious cult leader wanted to wipe out 50 million to stop the polar ice caps melting
remember the global warming al gore stuff this was all on the universities then when nobody
else had even heard it yet it was a cosmology they were formulating and they were drugging
the best minds of the best families coming in into a new age cult they thought of the christ
energy and right behind that was a bunch of social engineering psychotics that just like
to sacrifice people have sex with the best looking women and be pedophiles
but you saw that in roman paulanski's wife when he wasn't off raping little kids
charlie manson dropped by the killer
because she was their golden girl sharing tape i've researched it they loved her boy
the illuminati loved her loved her a lot
so that's what this is all about and if you want this type of scum running your life
then go ahead and drink the fluoride take the microchips give your kids the smartphones all
day because this is their plan they're carrying it out they are executing it a satanic one world
government computer run system where it's illegal to be a christian they said that in in five or
six publications yesterday they said oh the new ai god it'll be against the law to be superstitious
or believe in imaginary gods you're gonna worship our ai or you're gonna die and it's gonna run your
life oh but this young tech guy whose family was cia and whose family were us diplomats
he just went decades ago and won an award with darpa and then went to work for google
that's the that's the guy who's behind the new ai cult same story with zuckerberg i mean it's
they're just frontmen to make it look oh our little american whiz kid just came up with this
you know they got charlie mansons to pass out the drugs and then they got the zuckerbergs to
make it all cool and fun at the university he's like something he came up with when it's all
run by these people so there's a lot of these clips and they're posted on info wars dot com
and paul watson's powerful article but you've heard all this before from allen gordon everybody
else but here it is from charles manson charles manson heraldo revera there's an interview from
back in the 80s you can find mansons saying this stuff in court you know in 1970 1971 when he was
convicted where was he getting it well he was hanging out the same colleges theodore kasinski
and the mk ultra program they admit he was in the mk ultra program folks so here it is charles manson
no reality is they did what they did they're responsible for their own actions i'm responsible
for my actions ever kill anybody i've come off a close few times come on didn't you come on didn't
you man i ain't lying to you if you think i'm lying to you wasting my time in your time okay let's
not lie let's pick no reason to stay there's no reason why are you guilty of that i'm guilty of um what
am i guilty of i'm guilty of thinking that i had rights in a courtroom that's what i'm guilty of
thinking when my father's died in all the mother wars i thought man i just stand in the courtroom
and tell the judge it'd be all over 15 20 minutes i'm busy i got some appointments and it started
making money and when it started making money whoa they had money takes precedence they're going to
put me down on the ground for the money as long as they make the money they don't care who did it
who did it's not important and if i had done it it'd be worse than if than if i hadn't it considered
i don't understand yeah well consider i tell you like this yeah i i chopped up nine hauls and i'm
going to chop up some more of your mother i'm going to kill you as many as i can i'm going to pile
you up to the sky i figured about 50 million if i could get about 50 million i might be able to save
my trees and my air my water my wildlife do i tell 50 million people well that's that's just a drop
in the bucket to what's really coming that's just a drop in the bucket it was really coming
and we know bio weapon plague releases you name it you've got electromagnetic systems you can flip
the switch people just go to sleep there'll be a bunch of skeletons they got to come in
in a few months and clean up they'll just have to secure the nuclear reactors and some of those
other facilities and they're gearing up for that they're gearing up for it so just know if we can't
stop them and you're seeing a billion die in one week and and nuclear war starts and a bunch of
stuff kicks off no they did it all they're in their bunkers and you know what you deserved it
because they've been gearing up they've been getting ready and what do you say you said
europeans are evil europeans are bad europeans have to be done away with what do the globalists say
today that's just dominant globalist europeans wanting to get rid of their competition it's
helter skelter they want global race war and they want to put europeans back up against the wall
getting a bunch of outside groups trying to kill them so a lot of the europeans will then accept
the extermination program that's going to kill everybody who isn't white
and you've got the asian groups and folks working with the globalists you know deciding who's
going to be on what team you got the chinese developing race specific bio weapons and that's
all aimed at us and this is serious business and i've got a bunch of other clips charles
manson global warming charles manson interview i should have killed 500 people charles manson
let's stop polluting charles manson says to you wants to have a one world government
let's play the charles manson wants a one world government then i'll come back and play more of
these clips here is charles manson wants a one world government here it is man doesn't back up to his
fear he goes straight into his fear we've got to get a one world government
we've got to have it man this is just the bombed out little drug delivery guy the cia
who heard all this you know the satan orgies and is now up here being our guru he's just
repeating it when what's he look like an inbred method he looks like an antifa dudney we're
going to come back with more of these clips ladies and gentlemen but this is who we're facing this
is who we're dealing with ladies and gentlemen now before i go any further if you don't financially
support us soros will win plus we got great products you really need that's the real reason
you should get them and we're launching as we do every year gigantic specials we have our biggest
specials around christmas and around black friday every year this is a free shipping just extended
people people love the free shipping so i'm doing it for another week at least but that's not really
what's important here we're gonna have a 34 hour live broadcast next week again because vise and
others didn't like that so we're gonna do another one was very popular got about a million and a
half new listeners and viewers during that so it's very very successful to reach out to new people
we're gonna start doing those since they don't like them and try to demoralize us that's coming
up on monday but this week we got 50 off but these sales are only going to run each item for a
couple days because a bunch of them are close to selling out like i told you knockout was sold out
for a few weeks we had it back to full price we got a small shipment in should get more in the
middle of december but our great high quality product is back same thing happened with the
brain force it's 50 off and again free shipping pro pure 25 off and free shipping super high quality
water filtration system it's all there also carnivore our new digestive enzyme top the line
when you're eating all that turkey and beef and the rest of it to actually help absorb it
not have it rot your guts and actually get the protein and micro nutrients and macro nutrients
from it 33 off introductory price and our new floral life a digestive probiotic formula is top
of the line we have two different dosages of that at infowarstore.com or triple eight two five three
three one three nine we're committed to you when you buy these products you're committed to us and we win
vitamin mineral fusion visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemistry we have worked for years
with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting
multi vitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with
a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs
in the history of infowarslife we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2
supermail vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of
multi vitamin mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral
fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that
means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info
warslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out enjoy all natural
bath and beauty products with emmercs essentials we are proud to bring you a collection of organic
based household products at infowarstore.com including non-nano spf 30 zinc oxide sunscreen
deat free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash unscented body wash tea tree shampoo
and long lasting natural deodorant emmercs essentials is free of chemicals and toxins
that may harm your body we carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas that
are certified usda made with organic our mission is to offer you everyday organic household
products to enhance your life truly feel the difference by going organic natural without
compromising on quality feel good about using emmercs essentials start saving money and stop
exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit infowarstore.com and learn
more about the new emmercs essentials line of organic products that's infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
ladies and gentlemen we are back live broadcasting worldwide
i have a special guest coming on dealing with white genocide in africa that's even in mainstream news
that the left is actually praising so simon roche is coming on the broadcast
and we're going to be looking at mugabe out in zimbabwe and so much more but right now we're
getting into charles manson dead at 83 and i just played clips if you just joined us uh of him
saying i want to kill 50 million then i would have been a good globalist but don't worry a lot
more is coming soon they all dream of the big catastrophe the mass death and the new world
they're gonna have when we play the clip of him wanting a one-world government uh here he is talking
about man-made global warming in 1987 here's charles manson try to stop the jep non-war
and i did it and all the things i did i did without breaking the law because your law 1776
you got jet airplanes going six thousand miles an hour and you're reading books that was written on
the back of horses why don't you tell the public what's really going on why don't you tell them
the water so bad the fish can't live in it well don't you tell them that the polar caps are melting
because you're creating so much heat with this machine you see what i'm saying 1987 interview
he steadfastly refused to admit guilt or show any remorse for his actions you won't face the fact
that there's a holy war moving upon the planet earth you couldn't see the blood splattered all over
the walls now you say you want to blame one guy for it i've seen it i witnessed it go by
i've seen the children what they were trying to do and i was sympathetic with them but you
might say i'm a devil in this respect that i never broke will or entered into any one circle
with breaking will in any respect whatsoever i just watched this flow downstream from your words
as mr emin's quotes him in this book it's clear that you were guilty of murder and yet he says
in all his conversations with you he never heard you express remorse have you never felt it
remorseful what you people have done everything in the world to me doesn't that give me equal
right i can do anything i want to you people at any time i want to because that's what you've
done to me if you spit in my face and smack me in the mouth and throw me in solitude confinement
for nothing what do you think's gonna happen when i get out of here what do you think's
gonna happen to you the things that you create in here here that was so there you go if you
go out on the street and look at the ante for people or you look at the average leftist at
the hillary event that we just set a nice reporter out to cover and they were in her face screaming
in her attacking her flipping her off grabbing the microphone they all have that trashiness to
that that that stupidity to them that glaze in their eyes there's nothing there they're just kind
of broadcasting the corrupt spirit of the world they're not themselves and you notice that people
like charles manson says i can do whatever i want he's saying he's one of the elite he can kill
whoever he wants he can stab and murder whoever he wants because he's charles manson
and then he points out though well you guys have done a lot more than i've done
he's talking about the power structure itself but the truth is charles manson learned about
all this stuff because he was hanging around on those universities where the cia mind control
programs were going on and he was recruited into it to be one of the bag men and that's come out
congressional hearings that's come out in the research they had tons of these guys all over
the country and all of the world to create this new counterculture that looked cool to get all
the young people to adopt a program of counterculture that the social engineers have come up with
and now after the free love and the sex and the partying now it's oh the sex is bad mothers and
fathers are bad humans are bad here just take this brain chip they're moving us on to the next
phase and i've seen government documents some of them are in charlotte israelis deliberate
dumbing down from the department of education where it actually shows graphics about they first
make you a rebellious and then then they turn you into this into that and finally you're a zombie
on the other end basically under their control so it's a whole process
please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot
of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when you
choose autoship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at info or short.com number two
you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for autoship because we hold
back a surplus for autoship customers number three we're giving you free shipping on all orders above
$50 listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the
products that you need each month just go to info wars store.com select your favorite product or
products click on autoship and choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know
i coined the term 360 win and with the new autoship feature in informerslife.com this is a sure win
10 off on autoship win win win at info warslife.com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all
out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for autoship
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance
oh
ladies and gentlemen hollywood Babylon has absolutely poisoned our country and poisoned the world
it has been a weaponized culture system to attack families to attack civilization to attack our
sovereignty and now it's in a lot of trouble imploding in on itself but Charles Manson is dead
part of an mk ultra mind control program we're going to be talking about that more coming up at
the bottom of the hour also google launches colossal censorship a disinformation campaign
under the dead of night men's shaving company attacks toxic masculinity and new ad
says being strong being honorable being stoic is bad stop it this is the total demoralization
and then the big news that i'm going to cover again after our guest leaves us experts were
predicting over the weekend a great crash of 2018 will start in the bond market
today the euro crashed massively with angela merkel's fourth term as chancellor in doubt
and her plan to flood europe with islamicist as us growth forecaster on the rise i've talked to top
globalist on air and off air former top globalist and i've been in contact with other over the years
people that are high up billionaires you name it and they filled me in a lot of things saying that
i was basically dead on about what was happening and who had told me like i just see it really isn't
in the news but you you can follow the trends and the different angles the globalist made a deal
with euro and with china to deindustrialize the us as a political system of control and implode us
and turn us into a third world country just like they've done to south africa
and trump and others are battling that and so it's not just like hey we're fighting to get the
economy up and keep the stock market propped up as a bubble just because that's fun because it is
unhealthy long term but we're in a financial war now we have to keep it propped up until the euro
implodes because it's a cancerous authoritarian system that is opening the borders to carry out
the cultural genocide against christians and whites and again the minorities coming in aren't
even the enemy it's the globalist directing at all and they admit it now the reason this all dovetails
in is because it's a planetary plan and we have simon roche on who is a prominent activist
and individual who's been exposing the massive white genocide in south africa in zimbabwe uh in
many of these other african countries where everybody's now basically starving to death and
they have epic weimar republic inflation because they've driven any infrastructure out
it's just a thing of conquest so south africans hold black monday protest over white farmer
murders that's newsweek murders of white farmers spark protested south africa that's cbs news
epidemic of south african farm murders continues as gunmen shoot elderly victims dead now these
are groups of a and c connected black communists doing it so the whole black lives matter thing
it's like international and you've got a lot of other black groups saying we don't want this this
is terrible but look at zimbabwe and i'm not the expert like this gentleman zimbabwe where you've
got robert maghabi and all the rest of it has basically killed all the white farmers tens of
thousands they're all gone the few that stayed have all been killed okay so what you see in zimbabwe
is not going to be south africa and this is directed this is planned and we've got an expert on
to go over that information for us simon roche is head of the office of hq of the world's largest
non-state civil defense organization and i'm not gonna i'm gonna pronounce it right uh shulanders
of south africa once an a and c activist he now works tirelessly to prepare for impending catastrophe
in the rainbow nation simon lives in johannesburg and it's the proud father of many children and
we'll probably have to go 40 after so if he can because i've got him a little bit late because
this is so important to break down we can also show how they first disarmed everybody and now
they're able to kill them and how the government basically goes along with this so it's s u i d l a
n d e r s and folks it is total breakdown of civilization there uh this is happening and
so you're going to see the whole continent now basically collapse libya has been destroyed by
the globalists now they're going to bring down south africa using their race-based
communist narrative uh simon roche you're the expert uh so i i just gave my gestalt snap shot
from america was that accurate or was that inaccurate no that's just about accurate for a
long time we've been uh predicting these things uh we're not high bound by doctrine as many people
are you know they're supposed to conform to the narrative of the new south african rainbow nation
our organization st london's the largest of its kind in the world as you said uh operates on facts
statistics data true information and it is very much the way that you've described is an ongoing
decline in south africa particularly or southern africa and it is indisputably driven by globalist
capital forces that's beyond any sort of doubt we can go to your website to see examples of the
carnage the murder the death of people that don't know can you describe the the forces in south africa
well the the south african political scene is dominated by the african national congress
government of nelson-mandela fame they are now challenged very heavily for their original
political territory by a linenist stalinist political party called the economic freedom
fighters whose leader very famously in recent months has said that blacks should invade white farms
with the spear in the hand he's also the guy who said on the 7th of november last year that
he's not calling for the slaughter of all whites yet and as a very very influential tribal leader
in south africa said to me simon in english or european idiom that could mean many things
in african idiom that means only one thing he's telling his supporters that at some point but
not now he is going to call upon them to slaughter all of the whites and they should prepare for it
whether people like that or not that's that's the reality um that we're facing at the moment and it
gets worse and worse you know the african national congress elix maintains its mccorn tour west seas
where spear of the nation armed wing so it's probably the only political party in the world
that besides being the governing force and having a defense force also has its armed wing and the
head of of the armed wing the mccorn tour west seas where in our largest most populous province
said a few months ago that it is now time for young blacks to go to training camps in the bush
in south africa to learn to kill whites in a civil war so those are the main parties the
extreme left party the the a and c and then of course there's the the minor white population of
about eight and a half percent which and we believe that we are going to be on the receiving end of
this now for those that again haven't studied the different topography in the different areas you've
got the quasi communist government before and i guess it's just getting more and more radicalized
by its far left and i read their own plans and their own statements and the people being murdered
every day now and the riots and the the looting of the infrastructure and it sounds just like
what anti-fun black lives matter and the sorrows funded groups are doing over here it's it's very
similar the similarities are terrific i've just spent six months in the usa going from one end
to the other over 27 000 miles worth of driving visiting decent respectable bright-eyed fresh
face very nice people um to talk with them about this problem and to endeavor to raise funds because
we we are very very close to a crisis and we need to very urgently get whatever we're going to talk
about that we're going to talk about your emergency we're going to about your emergency plan because
again some people are just saying hey you should just leave well a lot of people you can't leave
a lot of countries won't take you but i mean explain what's happening there when we come back from
break and the emergency plan because as you said already south africa is one of the highest crime
rates in the world it's collapsing the populations are just killing each other in mass uh people
believe if you rape a baby if you have hiv that it makes you well i mean it's just descending
back into absolute barbarism and i gotta ask you why not just evacuate and then it's very sad these
folks will all just kill each other for whatever reason it's it's very very sad we'll be right back
stay with us
katie armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market
and we've succeeded with the release of our cqb technology we now offer the most comfortable
concealable rifle threat body armor available things may look good now but what if you need added
protection get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com and for a
limited time get all plates at wholesale pricing only at katiearmor.com water is the single most
important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family
since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy provides the lowest price
filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency get to
goburky.com we're call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 goburky.com
id stronghold wallets are different they may look the same on the outside they're stylish
they'll hold your cards in cash but they're hiding something great on the inside no there are no
pyrotechnics and it doesn't sing when you open but it does have magical powers id stronghold
wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves standing right next to you
protect your family this holiday season with affordable leather id stronghold wallets and
purses anyone can buy a cheap rfid scanner online and snag your information just by walking past
you contactless credit cards debit cards even your work id bag id stronghold was the first to
pioneer rfid blocking technology over 12 years ago secure your identity and save 10% by using
coupon code present for a limited time at id stronghold.com that's coupon code present also
available at walmart.com ebank amazon or qvc id stronghold.com
not a group you develop living defense for us it took you over a year to do it why is this so good
because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most i mean i try
to make sure that i don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system but right now
we're dealing with massive parasites which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives
off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around we have biological
warfare going on everywhere these are all parasites tell us about that all the stuff
said there's so many things that are in it you have the neem in there you have the organic clove
bud the organic wormwood i recommend doing the parasite plans at least twice a year all right
well i'm glad we've got some back in because i'm going back on it today it just came back in
yesterday living defense info warslife.com and folks you can't lose it's full of stuff that's
great for your body period and uh can you support the broadcast info warslife.com thank you doctor
group from the global healing center thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product
you go to infowarstore.com and get game changing amazing products we've been sold out of
dna force for almost four months easy gradient start nutraceutical grade the highest quality
the bio pqq all of it it's 25 off the truck got in this morning and it's back but it is a limited
run because of all the testing and all the rest of it is the highest quality read about what it'll
do for you and your family it is amazing we also been sold out for three months on biome defense
super high quality probiotic it's 25 off out of the gates back in stock but for a very limited
time so you get the highest quality the very cleanest stuff out there we're really really proud of it
dna force and biome defense probiotic now back in stock info warslife.com and when you buy products
from globalist it's an active trading with the enemy it is an act of war it is an act of standing
up when you spread the links the articles and buy products from us and then we commit rampage against
the enemy totally you're listening to the alex jones show
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance you're listening to alex jones
simon rush is the head of the office of the hq of the world's largest non-state civil defense
organization in south africa and in many other countries once communists take over or leftists
take over they slowly isolate the whites put them basically in controlled areas farm ghettos
and then start exterminating them that's now accelerated in south africa it's been basically
complete in zimbabwe tens of thousands of whites killed the leftist media and the west celebrates
it they teach at major universities it's good and now the second most powerful party in south
africa is set to take power openly saying they will kill every white left eight percent of the
population in south africa now you can say we'll just get out of there well a lot of western
countries won't take people out of south africa in fact that's kind of a un globalist thing is
they don't want whites going to nations that had whites this is a globalist attack on whites run
by elite whites uh in in every case so you have to ask yourself flood countries with non whites
and then say whites get out well you can argue you know obviously africa whites colonize that
but the issue is globalists are now reverse colonizing using third world populations to flood
first world nations to drive down wages and then exploit those countries so once the whites are
all out of south africa which has already happened in other countries it's going to fully collapse
that's my view on it talk about your emergency plan simon and just how dire the situation is and
tell the folks here in the u.s. and around the world what it's like to be there because i know
they've taken most your guns in the last decade or so and of course now that's accelerated the
white genocide yeah absolutely the the best source on this is dr gregory stanton of a genocide watch
of washington dc who's written extensively about this and there's nobody in the world who compares
to him as an expert on genocide and he said that clearly we are heading towards an open genocide
um i think that the key thing for people to understand elix is is the is the statistics
rather than the sentiment the opinion you know the reality is that the chances of a white farmer
in south africa being murdered on his farm are more than double the chances of a policeman in
this violent society being killed now when a man who kills the soil stands more than twice the chance
of a crime fighter in a violent society dying then you know that there's something wrong
the the statistical likelihood of a white person being murdered by a black person in south africa
is more than 12 000 higher than any black person in the usa ever stood of being lynched we're not
condoning lynching we're saying get a sense of perspective the persecution of whites in africa
the persecution of whites in africa is larger than persecution statistically that's been done
to blacks in this country by more than 12 000 that's correct continue well our national emergency
plan is an entirely peaceful plan we're non insurrectionist non seditionist we're not here
to cause trouble we're here to look after innocent women children and non able-bodied people and the
elderly we're here in the event of an open civil war in this country a race-based civil war such
as black leaders have been promising us particularly since august of last year when our former judge
president said that we're staring a race-based civil war in the in the face and so on and so forth
over over the intervening year um we are here to protect ordinary people to prepare to look
after white people in the event of the civil war that we are being promised by black leaders
it's a national emergency plan it extends over the entire country it has been in place since 2006
we are prepared and by the way you know it's going to happen this is happening and how many other
african countries i can think of four in the last 50 years that it starts the exact same way
and then all of a sudden everybody's wiped out yeah absolutely that's that's the way it's done
and the irony of it is that it's not driven by those people they are driven by an ideology that's
given to them by somebody else you know this is my next point charlie manson just died he pushed
this whole kill the white thing because the university taught him why are the big banks
why are the mega rich funding this this this ideology and tell us what the ideology is
this the ideology is a form of communism but ultimately what it comes down to is an anti
european christian tradition that's fundamentally what it comes down to if you see what's being
done in the world today it's being directed at christian conservative europeans ultimately
we are the people for whatever reason it may be whether it's in north america or in europe
who are on the receiving end of this relentless assault against our culture traditions religion
history and our dignity and our pride this is a consistent thing well it's because the new global
systems coming in and it wants to erase any system that won't be absorbed and that's strong and and
that's why it's been directed by george soros he admittedly is directing a lot of the south africa
stuff well elix you know our leader and founder garba the name of gustav miller has been writing
about this and talking about this for nearly 20 years and for a long time people thought that he was
you know or off his tree or however you like to put it that he was crazy but over time it's become
more and more and more and more and more conspicuous and thank god for that because it validates us
and we don't look like the crazies anymore thank god for what's happening in the usa and what's
happening in europe because now we're in a position to say to people hey don't trust us trust your own
eyes look look look what's being done and to whom it is being done and who is driving it in the end
this liberal liberalist post-modernist moral relativist humanist assault on everything that
is moral absolutist on everything that is firm and that is fixed is now pervasive it's jacobin
french revolution it's this very same ideology it's never been cut it's never been uh totally
defeated it just keeps moving around like a cancer yeah it is like a cancer it is and um at the moment
it's it's expressing itself something terrible in south africa the rate of rape and murder and
what have you is just phenomenal you know i saw some of those papers that you had in your hand
and it said elderly couple shot whatever and i couldn't help but think to myself that's that's
not a good example you know with all due respect the good examples are the elderly couple that
had boiling water poured over them or the elderly gentleman who recently got locked up in his in his
four truck and trust up and then the the truck set on fire and burned to death or the little girl
who was raped to the the four-year-old girl who was raped by three men survived it and because
she survived you know this was proven in the post-mortem autopsy she was then bundled up in
newspaper with gasoline poured over it and then set on fire or the girl who was crucified on her
parents kitchen table and then raped a three-year-old girl in this instance the three-year-old girl
raped by four men while crucified to her parents kitchen table after her father had had his his
throat split and her mother being killed as well you know it is beyond people's imagination what
we're in at the moment wow well i'm going to talk about how people can shine light on this because
just like genocide watch and others whether it's an asian group being killed or an african group
being killed or people in latin america i mean i'm against any of these genocides but the un even
admits that the last decade christians are the number one targeted group and the targeting's
doubled uh just like we saw the un and the globalist and nato involved in the middle east and syria
targeting christians they will go out of their way to kill christians uh and it is a program look
at china the christians are being killed but anybody else peaceful the the buddhist are being
killed uh will be right back and their organs taken will be right back i'm alex jones this is the
info war we are on the march the empire is on the run you're listening to the alex jones show
it's an o-brainer a big burkey water filter is the one you need period you need a water filter
that removes chlorine fluoride pharmaceuticals bpa and other endocrine disruptors pesticides
bacteria viruses and much more right and does it all at only two cents per gallon get the original
most trusted name in gravity water filtration big burky and now gc n listeners receive five
percent off ceramic filter systems using code gcn call or click 187799 burky or big burky
water filters dot com that's one eight seven seven nine nine burky want revenge on the common house
fly well after 10 000 years someone has finally come up with a better way the bug assault a
miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition non-toxic and no
batteries required so much fun you'll forget you have a wife and kids 39 95 and free economy
shipping use discount code gcn and get an extra 10 off your purchase at bug assault dot com makes
the perfect stocking stuffer get your bug assault today men give your body the support it needs
with info war's life prostagard it's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper
prostate balance info war's life has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest
quality out there but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the natural
herbs and extracts that our experts recommend the prostagard formula does just that with this mixture
of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body total support it's a hand
selected blend of saw palmetto lycopene plant sterols zinc vitamin d3 selenium and copper
prostagard is something that the men on the info wars crew take every day and from our research
it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in order to keep their body
going at optimal levels now's the time to start naturally supporting your body get prostagard
on your side today exclusively at info wars life dot com that's info wars life dot com america is an
information-based civil war that's why now more than ever we've got to hit the streets of america
and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their bully we're only intensifying
our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship being a conservative a nationalist
a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly the counterculture the real punk rock is
being a patriot who's pro america pro capitalism and pro freedom who at the same time is tolerant
modern liberalism is a counterfeit of thomas geverson's classical liberalism they are the
anti-liberal to defend free speech meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide we've got
more than 60 original designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more
patriot feral at info wars store dot com be part of the second american revolution at info wars store
dot com proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels
up optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of b
vitamins we need every day up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines
two bioactive forms of vitamin b 12 for optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient
in b vitamins can cause fatigue depression poor memory and lethargy secret 12 optimal absorption
b vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes b
vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system
up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b 12 intake head to info
wars life dot com and support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's info wars life
dot com you're listening to the alex jones show
go big brother mainstream media government cover us you want answers well so does he
live from austin texas broadcasting worldwide it's alex jones
soundlanders.org simon rush is our guest i've got so much big breaking news at releases but
what he's talking about is so important i want to finish up and having back soon but we've got
this breaking bezos in deep state unite amazon launches cloud service for cia they bezos is the
cia folks look into his dad all of it never ends and then meanwhile trump to levar ball i should
have left them all in jail these people are they're caught choplifting that's like 10 years in jail
in china trump gets them out china admits that the president interceded and the family says we
don't appreciate you because you're trump i mean it's just the entitlement and the craziness and
just all the weirdness is so sad to see and then to see countries that the globalist social engineers
wreck they put communist in then they extract the resources for almost nothing and the africans
don't get it whether they be white or black because when you've been there 300 years like some of
these folks are longer you know you can call yourself an african and again it's not all the
tribes doing it it's always the ones that get organized and i know there's different factions
you've got the you've got the zulus and you've got all the other tribes kind of the a and c i don't
live there i'm an expert but i know that pretty much all that's left is the farmers that are kind
of like what you'd call amish in fact a lot of them i guess come from amish from the dutch and
german derivation and i've read that i guess uh the southlanders organization has some connections
describe the background of your group because again i've i mean i've researched it but there's a lot
of different subgroups who are some of the different groups there in africa who are you trying to
organize together because i mean you're the bread basket of much of africa everybody knows that
who studied it and then if it's shown once you get overthrown uh and just kicked off your land
that you've developed that people see and want it always goes out of cultivation and falls apart
so again why are the communists pushing so hard to get you out i guess because the internationalist
want to bring down stability so they can exploit the population better they don't want civilization
well it's that and they're also absolutely devoted to this idea of destroying this this european
christian tradition whether people like it or not they only need to look at the evidence not in
south africa but around the world of what is happening today whose culture is being undermined
by abortion pornography and gay marriage and what have you in complete contradiction to the
doctrines the prevailing doctrines i mean it makes no sense no matter how you look at it you can't
defend this thing forever and ever and ever at some point you've got to believe the very evidence
that lies before sure the globalists admit this plan so what i'm asking you is uh i mean basically
the organization you're with the groups who represent aren't you guys i mean i basically like
amish uh a living in a basic christian tradition farming raising your families
yes it is a very very uh conservative culture of course people have televisions and modern
devices and appliances and and that kind of stuff but the fundamental cultural values
of the people who i represent or who satan is devoted to protecting that is to say particularly
the africana were people of south africa also other whites because that's how the uh international
laws under which we are constituted legally work but those africana were people of very very conservative
i'll i'll illustrate to point to you very briefly alex you know we we hold to a series of of
prophecies that said this this crisis the prophecies given a hundred years ago will occur at a time
when a man with a place kale tape that is to say hair resembling a wig will be in power in the
united states and he will take over the reins of power from a black man and there are various
other things i won't go on and on and on about it but the point is that we are devoted to an
ancient culture and that's intriguing now because i want to hear about this prophecy well this chap
lived uh he was born in 1864 died in 1926 very pious chap and he made a long series of prophecies
in which he described that there would be three world wars and he said that the third world war
would happen in parallel to a civil war in south africa race by civil war between the races but
ultimately driven by the globalists which we have always seen anybody who can read african
language is welcome to go on our website there are hundreds of articles that make it very very
clear that we see our first enemy not as black people or not it's not the black people it is
this global capitalist new world order he said that the third world war would happen in tandem
with a crisis in south africa and he said it would be at a time when this man who is a stern man
who gazes sternly has hair resembling a wig and he takes over the reins of the usa from a black man
after the black man has confused the identity and the orientation of the united states
he said that would be at a time when there's a wave of black and brown skinned migrants
into europe he was very very explicit about it he said following that there would be a global
financial crisis and he spoke particularly of the fact that that the money in europe would not
be worth the paper that the pay the cost of the value of the paper would be greater than the the
amount of money that it denominates by the way i've read about this fellow before and forgot
about it and he actually it's on record he said all this he was listened to back then and it was
all basically coming through the euro is starting to collapse right now yeah well he lost practically
all of his credibility when he made one of his final prophecies namely that there would be a black
government in south africa now a hundred years ago everybody thought that he was just plain
crazy and they wrote him off he said the first black ruler on the throne of south africa would
be deemed a saint by the world and when he died he would be a lion state in a glass coffin
and at his burial dignitaries he spoke about princes and rulers and so on would come from
all over the world to pay respects at his grave site now the meaning of that is very very the
reason i'm listening to stuff like this there's a lot of false promises the bible say who go out
and put out this info but people like this where it's been proven right over and over again it's
incredible and i personally haven't had like full-on deals like this but i've had experiences
dreams and things that came true exactly later so that's why i know how real this stuff is
yeah it can be and i think everybody approaches this stuff with some skepticism
my father gave me the the book to read at first and i gave it back to him very despicably i
thought it was absolute nonsense until i began to see that what he prophesied or predicted
was coming to word for word for word very often in the same words that he used and he did say that
that a bucket of blood would fall over in zimbabwe and once that bucket of blood fell over in other
words there would be a lot of blood spilt or blood shed he he said it would come into south africa
so now we don't know whether there's going to be bloodshed in zimbabwe today next week next
month next year who knows but these are the things that we're paying attention to because
so far he's been right and we're on the receiving end of a lot of pain at the moment everybody knows
somebody who's been murdered or raped or whose child has been raped or who's been disfigured
i was on a farm recently which has eight neighboring farms and on each of the eight neighboring farms
somebody had been killed in recent years now that's you know it's severe and it's getting worse
and it's what the communists do it's helter skelter uh simon i'm really impressed with the
work you're doing please come on please have the leader of your organization on and give us updates
here so please stay in contact suidlanders.org and people can i guess donate there to help
get your civil emergency plan implemented and prepared please we would appreciate it very
much thank you elix you bet absolutely god bless you that's what we're here for ladies and gentlemen
is making preparations because we know the enemy plan so we we we have a leg up if we take action
if we're ready and again they're trying to beat everybody into race-based garbage in the us to
make us fight with each other we can't do it to come together love each other see through it and
know it's class warfare uh that these globalists are carrying out but no they hate you because
you're christian they're announcing world government they're announcing microchips they're
announcing this new god that google's been developing that's going to be ai that you worship
like right out of revelation i mean look it's happening and most of the churches are cowards
and are going along with it because they're not really churches they just want the money
all right trump just escalated things with north korea will tell you about that on the other side
i'm alex jones i am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars
biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function our
researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on
the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info wars life
dot com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've been testing
this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public so please take advantage
of it today support your own health and support the info war after years of research working with
top developers here in the united states with the latest cutting-edge science we are rolling out three
new digestive gut aids one of them is a powerful pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to
break down meat other proteins better and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live
probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration and we also
have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance but all of these are the
very cutting-edge top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable
price that is my goal here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price when you purchase
it an info or store.com you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the
defense of our republic and freedom worldwide choose to take control of your chemistry with
survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect for supporting your
thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100
percent organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral
sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this essential mineral is necessary
in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body
with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism lethargy weight gain and overall
brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your body
take control of your chemistry today with this super combo discover the power of survival shield
x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life.com refresh your breath with immerse essentials
organic mouthwash our formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and
provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste immerse essentials mouthwash is
non-gmo certified organic made without alcohol chemicals or other artificial ingredients such
as flavors fragrances or dyes the pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing
antibacterial properties that work well to help tone gums and freshen your breath this antiseptic
mouthwash is a concentrated formula you will need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water
immerse essentials mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine it is effective yet
gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and kink resource go organic today with immerse essentials
visit infowarstore.com to learn more that's infowarstore.com
you're listening to the alex jones show
crashing through the lies and disinformation it's alex jones
well trump has declared north korea an ater of terror states that means they can stop their
ships that means they can put more sanctions on them that means that it's just one more ratchet
up towards war we have that story upon newswarstore.com and infowarstore.com
then i've got all this other news visas in deep state unite amazon launches cloud service for cia
we first talked about this about a year ago when it was just in trade publications but
this is far-reaching implications i'm explaining why here in just a second also saudi arabia vows
to take on iran i'm at warnings the region is in dangerous abyss that's out of the express we
told you months ago war there is looming and may be imminent but the first big thing i want to get to
charles manson it's so interesting it's it's hard to not because usually i talk about charles
manson people don't really make a big deal at it because it's he's not in the news but now whatever
we talk about with manson will end up getting millions of views you know on facebook and
twitter in places and will reach new people they need to know about mk ulter they need to know about
the program he was part of to destabilize and try to trigger a race war for cultural upheaval because
in the globalists don't want us to be christian and to come together and not be racist they want
to claim their fighting racism while stirring everyone up to be racist that's really the secret
plan which isn't a secret anymore so we're going to talk about all that coming up but first expert
great crash of 2018 will start in the bond market i saw this yesterday did some more research
it it is a top expert saying that many others are saying it too because it is so overvalued
then i saw this this morning and i said whoa i better cover this
euro crash with angela merkel's fourth term and chancellor is in doubt as us growth forecasts
are on the rise i'm going to break this down here in a moment because it's a key first off the ladies
and gentlemen we are running specials this week that are amongst the best we ever run and i've been
running more and more specials as things go on because i've noticed the bigger the specials i
run the more people buy product but there's kind of a point at which we discount things so much that
it didn't really funding our operation and i've lately the accountants have shown me i've kind
of reached that point where hey you're selling the probiotic at five dollars over what it cost
and then you're doing free shipping alice we're losing a dollar it's on average stop
and so it really does come down to that uh brain force plus is now back in stock
we got a small shipment in we should get a lot more towards the end of december but it's about
to be sold out again 50 percent off and free shipping that's the first big special of black
friday week we're just gonna have it right through this weekend 50 percent off 5700 reviews by power
reviews 4.6 stars and we just went out and researched the highest quality brain empowering focus
empowering energy empowering a healthy way or organic substances that are known to be safe
and we put it in there and we sell it for 39 dollars when similar compounds are 70 to 80
but when we sell it for 50 off ladies and gentlemen 50 percent off it is 19 dollars
and 96 cents i mean that is a great great deal on a really really powerful brain pill brain force
plus now with 20 more capsules in each bottle which was a big deal for us to do because i mean
the you know it costs a lot some of the compounds people love it though it is the overall total
best seller that we show up such a low price it doesn't really fund the operation x2 is one of
our other top seller supermails a great seller the problem is it's made of a proprietary system cold
pressed so it's hard to always get it california standards which is impossible to pass basically
and then have enough of a cold press so it's sold out half the time we've got that back in
but we've got a bunch of specials we're going to be running new specials every single day
we've got pro pure 25 percent off on that water filtration and free shipping brain force plus 25
percent off so that is the specials that we've got for you today we have the new products
fluorolife and we also have the carnivore digestive enzyme that helps absorb the nutrients
well and amino acids out of the meat and out of the protein and out of the fat and out of the
carbohydrates really is important fluorolife advanced restoration 50 million live and then
we have the 15 billion every day maintenance that's excellent as well and carnivore now in stock
try them out for yourself we just commit to get these products you help fund the operation
and you help yourself but when i remember to take all this stuff it makes my life so much better
than i forget then i wonder why i'm sluggish or why i'm you know not as you know stuff in my gut
isn't you know perfect and it's like oh wait we have these things god gave us through nature
that we've gone out and sourced and got the very best stuff that works really well and it's here
and it's very very popular but that's how again we fund this operation so i want to thank you all
for your support and everything you've been doing because without you we would not
be here and we're all facing the same globalist onslaught we're all dealing
with the same globalist operations and we're all facing down the barrel of that and without
coming together and without supporting each other and without really focusing on the fact
that we're under attack we have no future humanity all has red blood we all have one destiny if we
choose it to live together in peace and experience amazing secrets of the universe and trump's great
crime is he's bringing people together the globalist want to break the country he first said we have a
country we have a nation and it's great and here's what made it great and let's come together and
they can't stand that because they want us alone and divided and pathetic and scared and it's not
just us reverse engineering their operations against us we don't just have the wiki leaks we
don't just have all these internal documents and statements and gruber on tv saying thank god you're
so stupid we have shon parker former head of facebook we have the facebook documents that got leaked
by high-level executives they say there's no more than 10 executives and maybe 20 or 30 assistants
that had access to the facebook plan that got released earlier this year
and got almost no attention it was in the australian newspapers because it got leaked in australia
and it said we keep them desperate we keep our people poor we want to keep them alone we want
to make them depressed uh and we we want to make them liberal so that so that they don't have a family
i mean that is so diabolical
they they exploit your vulnerability they try to make you more vulnerable and then they get
up on tv and they admit it why did parker do that is he a good guy i don't know
no it's just crazy
but we're on an express elevator to hell and i don't say to be negative i'm an incredibly
positive person positive in that we can change things and fix things but i use the analogy of
if you're drinking a bottle of vodka a day your liver's starting to go out the doctor says hey
you don't stop your liver's going to fail and you know we're not going to give
their alcoholics a new liver you're going to die you understand
and people look at the doctor and they say you're just being a killjoy you're just a
punk you're a fearmonger and you're later they're in the ground i had several friends
hell i've had more than that now that i'm this old i just lost more family than
a liver failure cousin pretty young same age as me
and it's you know serious issue and it's a good allegory it's a good parallel it's it's it's a
good example of the new world order is run by really selfish cold-blooded people and they
think you deserve to be annihilated and destroyed and overtaken because uh you're not wise to this
i mean i'm telling you decades before they want you to know what their plans are because they're
so arrogant they write white papers and they have events and you know 20 something years ago i'd
have to dig around to find this and found it shocking look ted turner says kill 90 of the
public and dump everybody down and cut off the resources and he'd say it you know in a
autobahn society quarterly or he'd say in a club of rome deal that only went out to members and
i'd have to go to the ut law department and ask permission to get in because i'd read about it
in the book and want to know if it was true and i'd go down and like here was the proof like in
a movie i'd get chills at my back how they're planning to kill everybody and i and how they're
going to dump us down and i'd look around i'd see the plan being implemented how this is real
and then i started warning people and they said this guy's crazy
i mean you know 19 20 years ago i'd read about human animal chimeras i didn't want to believe
about it was in major elite publications by elite it just means to them where they communicate
with each other they just talk about all this stuff like they talk about you like you have less
value than a grain of salt and they just talk all about it how once they get the computer grid
in place to control everybody then they're going to kill everybody but right now there'd be a war
you'd resist you'd fight back they'd never win a war right now the globalists it would end up
blowing back on them they've got to get you so drugged out so whacked out so confused with
robot sentries and computer grids everywhere so that when they flip the switch they've got autonomous
robot armies they'll help them carry out the main wipeout so again it's coming and just remember
support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride free products info wars life
brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful
clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubble gum flavor pair this
groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your
oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen
iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health
benefits super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our
super blue fluoride free products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine
at info wars store dot com that's info wars store dot com vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life
dot com to secure your chemistry we have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create
the most powerful and affordable great tasting multivitamin formula available vitamin mineral
fusion drink mix at info wars life dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars
life we brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2 super metal vitality
and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximized effects this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin
mineral products and this part is most important the ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are
either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard that means it's clean that means it's pure
and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war that's info wars life dot
com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we sell out you're listening to the alex
jones show if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance live from the info wars
dot com studios it's alex jones well as usual stefan malinu is in fuego on fire we like folks
that are on fire he's gonna be joining us coming up we're gonna go through a lot of this news
it's a great part about stefan he's always a newshound so he's up on everything i want to
get into all this with him including the word tranny being banned they're they're sending police now
to college radio stations to illegally arrest people to pull stunts to act like the word tranny
is illegal facebook decided i'm not kidding go to wikipedia this year zuckerberg decided that
it is a word you can't use but if someone's using it to describe how someone else misused it then
it's okay and they've told us in phone calls high-level folks at facebook we told them we were
recording it and they go that's fine please just paraphrase that's not word for word we go
we're recording it like they were like robots they didn't they just have canned responses i've got
like 20 minutes of it recorded in there i mean i'm and i said listen i'm not if i was against
somebody i should have the free speech unless i'm calling for violence but i'm not hating on somebody
because they want to dress up like a woman or take hormones and be one just like a guy might
want to take more steroids and become more male uh that you know do what i'm a libertarian man you
want to drink vodka till you die do it you want to you know want to do things that are healthy do
things that are bad i don't want to pay for your sex change i don't want to pay for your plastic
surgery i mean it's plastic surgery i don't want i don't want to pay for you and it's like making this
new super class so yeah let's play it here it is college calls police on student who said tranny
on the radio use the term on their program deplorable radio calls the police just like the
liberal this is up in minnesota just like the liberal schools let
antifa beat you up and then and then nothing happens and it's look they're choosing words
they can ban now they want to ban the word mother and father i'm not going to stop using it and if
i wanted to use it and say he was a bad father he was a bad mother in a pejorative i can but i
need to sit here and say oh i'm not against you please don't censor me i'm not against anybody
and i never have been but it doesn't mean of a bunch of trannies have an event and then dance
naked in front of kids here in austin literally with nothing but glitter on their genitals i don't
care if it's heterosexual or whatever you're doing homosexual it's illegal it's wrong and you're
really pushing it and you're hiding behind your rights and a lot of pedophiles have picked up your
banner and are hiding behind it so you need to understand that and and again a lot of big liberal
activists appointed that out instead of child abuse so let's go ahead and go to this clip this is
what you get the police coming after you for to pretend like it's a dirty word that's an FCC
violation well that's the FCC it's not an FCC violation it's not the cops so here's color
of law just like oh take the vaccines or we'll arrest you here it is have a group here called
the queer devil worshipers or a better team shirt it's not like our version of antifa here
that's more um except by the way hit pause they're not gonna come back and play the whole thing
we have a group here called queer devil worshipers and a lot of those groups want to be radical that's
what they say you by the way they call themselves the queer group or the queer event and then you
go oh look they're having the queer event and they go oh my gosh you're a band you said queer see
they're playing these semantical games and it's not right it's dangerous it's authoritarian so so
i'll back it up and play it again we have a group here called the queer devil worshipers
or a better team shirt it's not like our version of antifa here that's more um except they're nicer
they're not nicer they're just more they're like they're nicer they're much more tender they're nicer
in the violence they well the only reason they're not violent is because there's not enough of them
and everybody knows everybody here at moran like you you know you can definitely you see one
right so we're gonna come back we're gonna come back and they use the word tranny created by the
trannies and now they say you can't you kind of like homosexual they said is mean to gay people
they said use the word gay we go okay we'll be nice we'll use your word now they go don't use
mother and father either they're trying to be word police man this is serious authoritarianism
it's not about what's happening in your bedroom it's about what you're trying to force on us and
we're not putting up with it after years of research working with top developers here in
the united states with the latest cutting-edge science we are rolling out three new digestive
gut age one of them is a powerful pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down
a meat other proteins better and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture
of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration and we also have an everyday extremely
affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance but all of these are the very cutting-edge top-of-the-line
probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price that is my goal here is to bring
you the very best at the lowest price when you purchase it an informer store.com you know you
are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide
Waging war on corruption, crashing of the lies and disinformation. I'm Alex Jones your host
we have a giant spectrum of news the european union's euro is crashing people are having
police called on them for using the word tranny uh claiming it's an illegal word not just a hateful
word uh all because facebook just this year said it was now hateful no one ever really said that
before but they decided they first have a debate about a word then their their group decides it's
illegal and next week it'll be more words they tell you what words you can use they're god
so that's coming up charles manson dead at 83 and so much more in this third hour but first
ladies and gentlemen here's stefan malinu talking about how this is a great 20 minute video he did
explaining that uh conservatives shouldn't play the reindeer games they shouldn't play the leftist
games when it comes to running around uh taking any accuser and elevating it as if it's judge jury
and executioner so here is mr infuego himself republicans i just got one question for you
are you trying to lose are you trying to give away the stored blood and treasure of western
civilization as a whole is it a calling to lose it is it is it a job is it a career is it a hobby
whatever it is you pretty much got it done to perfection you've got to send it see it on the
line send it see it on the line and more has been accused of touching girls inappropriately 40 years ago
right before an election huh and you see the mainstream media cares so much about all of
this inappropriate touching that they in 44 minutes they call up all of the republican senators and
they get all oh what are your comments what do you think i need your comment of this tell me what
you think what are your comments because you see the mainstream media they're appalled they're outraged
they're horrified at any kind of inappropriate touching teenage girls so this is what they do
and this is why you lose but you don't have to stop taking this moral high ground of
self-congratulatory moral preening as you ride the four horses of appeasement compromise and
moral self-congratulation into the abyss you took people's votes yet take the money from the taxpayers
to do your job now start doing your job start winning stop accepting the left's rules because
the left has no rules the left has the left is like they seek power like water from a high place
seeks a low place they just whatever Joe Biden you can watch these videos that make you feel like
space aliens are breeding right under your skin Joe Biden is on video grabbing everything aged
in the single digits as they try to wriggle away like some kid in space alien movies that's pretty
close this is who the left loves there's no problem with these guys think they care about
children and the girls they cared about children why would there be a national debt if they cared
about children why would there be all these unfunded liabilities running into hundreds of
children's dollars why would they be selling children off to Chinese banksters for 12 extra votes
if they don't talk about inappropriate touching of the young how about an abortion forcep they just
we'll talk about that another time this is who the left loves they care about these girls
stack all of this stuff that the left accepts and loves and praises but Roy Moore you see
he signed a yearbook he signed a yearbook in December of the next year oh and he signed it as
Ray not Roy oh oh and he signed it da when he was at the time in fact dba deputy district attorney oh
and also he got the name of the restaurant he was referring to wrong and one of his accusers says
oh he locked me in a car i couldn't get out the locks with child proof well this was 1977 child
locks weren't required until the 1980s so that's all proof right they had clinton dead to rights
he had a major news network holding off an interview with
we need a brother right who says bill clinton raped her until after the impeachment hearings
that perfectly happened to cover up this kind of stuff but he signed a yearbook
understand if you don't fight this it's going to be a reigning rape in 2018
You're going to be like those sad, paralyzed little baby goats.
Boo!
Huh!
Legs up.
Don't move!
That's the word that does it.
Rape.
Inappropriate, sexual, blah, assault.
The Democrats don't care about the stuff because they've praised so many people who've
done infinitely worse than what more is accused of. They don't care. And so in the Darwinian
underworld of modern politics, they win.
That's right. And joining us is Stefan Malinu live and in the flesh on this Monday, the
20th day of November 2017, to cover the waterfront. And let's just continue the time we have left
in this short segment. If we were watching this like a football game or like a battle
between Lord Wellington and Napoleon, I mean, whatever the case would be, where are we at
this point? And why do the Republican leadership want to be patted on the head by mainstream
media when it's a dying anachronism that they should be running from? Why? I mean, I think
it's because they've been mummified up there and they've all been selected previously because
they were such yes men and because they don't think and because they really are tied into
the matrix.
Well it's in general, it's a crime gang in Congress. They do things that are immoral
and horrible and I have a pretty strong inkling and feeling Alex that we're going to see happen
to Congress what recently happened to Hollywood in terms of the blowout of sexual harassment
allegations and probably worse. So they are in for the full Weinstein treatment, I think
coming up there is rumblings on Twitter that this is all coming because of course they've
been paying off. What is it, $15 million in slash money tax pay?
You know, 250 pesos.
Yeah. And I want to know who these people are. As an American voter, you should really
want to know who these people are. Who are you voting for? Who has stuff on them? Do you
think that a Congress person can be independent if they've been subject to this kind of star
chamber review, if they've been subject to allegations that are paid off in terms of
sexual harassment or worse? They're not independent, people got stuff on them. Can they vote according
to their independent conscience if they can be blackmailed with this stuff? I don't know.
I doubt it. So we really need to see this kind of stuff and all of these people acted
in these terrible ways with no idea that people like you and I were going to write up on our
little ponies of truth and start shooting the flares of illumination into the sky.
So all of this is old school behavior. It's horse and buggy crap without the alternative
media to hold their feet to the fire to keep speaking truth to power. These guys would
have got away with it and imagine how much they would have got away with it if Hillary
was in power.
Well, that's some footage I've got coming up just in the next segment. We have Hillary
supporters that are book signing, attacking our female reporter, grabbing her mic, hissing,
screaming, and these are like 40, 50, 60 year old women hissing and going crazy and acting
like animals. It's like the left has degenerated so much.
They are terribly lazy. They are like Olympic swimmers who spent their entire life training
swimming with the current with a jet pack and a motorboat and water skis. I mean, because
they've had the mainstream media on their side, they've had government schools on their
side. They've had academia on their side. They've had Hollywood on their side. They
really haven't had to formulate a really good argument against strong and rigorous intellectual
opposition for the last 50 odd years.
The last time someone came up with a good argument against them was Joseph McCarthy.
And look what happened to him. They had enough control of the media to destroy that man's
life and to cover up all of the communists who were in the State Department and other
areas of government. So they're lazy. And the people who've been swimming against the
current, we've really sharpened our intellectual weapons and we are tan, fit, rest, relaxed
with Bruce Lee bellies and ready to rock and roll. So we are unfortunately outclassing
them enormously. And when you think you're all that and then you run up against a real
opponent, the inevitable response is a kind of strangled panic.
That's it. I mean, they're like grounding rats. It's what it looks like just flailing
around, squeaking and pissing themselves.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals? Are you happy doing laundry with
detergents? Are you happy paying high prices? Find your happiness with pure soap. These
all natural, earth friendly, pure soaps are the very best you've ever used. Buy in bulk.
Get a 12, 36 or 48 month supply. Or get items individually and still save big. You're getting
soap products twice as good as what you're using now. Earth friendly and natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best. Happiness is 5starsoap.com. Why not put your money up the
drain for a change? See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog. Calben
Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old fashioned real soaps
that are triple concentrated. Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils. See their full
selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com. That's F-I-V-E star soap.com. Or call 1-800-340-7091
for a catalog. Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick, meaty, center cut,
presidential bacon. Savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some. I store some. Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life. NASA pack technology. Bacon. Fully cooked,
fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon. Or warm and served. Lifesaving,
ready to eat bacon. 10 year shelf life bacon. Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
Katie Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market
and we've succeeded. With the release of our CQB technology, we now offer the most comfortable
concealable rifle threat body armor available. Things may look good now, but what if you
need added protection? Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at catiharmor.com.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials. Perfect for face
and body, this natural unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times of the day whenever
you need sun protection. We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful
chemicals and toxins. This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest
particle size used and we do not use nanoparticles. The larger the particle, the safer it is for
your body. The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth. The truly
natural fragrance free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin. EmRick's Essentials wants
you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials. Stop exposing
yourself and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarrestore.com and learn more about
the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels. With
our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every
day. Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every day. Secret 12 combines two
bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption. Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy. Secret
12. Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption. B vitamins help the body convert food into
energy by supporting your inner cellular processes. B vitamins are also essential for the optimal
functioning of the brain and nervous system. Up, up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels. Secret
12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake. Head to infowarslife.com and support
optimal brain and body function with Secret 12. That's infowarslife.com.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide from the infowars.com studios.
Devon Malinu of Free Domain Radio is our guest author, researcher and more. I want to be
clear, I'm not a tribalist. George W. Bush twice for me trying to ask questions had me
arrested on his orders once in New York, once here in Austin. I was there told. I don't
like the Republican blue bloods. I want to get rid of them. But leftist ideology, going
back to the Jacobins and their French Revolution, if you study it, is really the mindset of
Charlie Manson. His clips about global warming and his clips about world government and his
clips about killing people and how he's an elitist. He was involved in a CIA program.
He was there at the same time as Theodore Kaczynski who was in the MK Ultra program.
That's LA Times, by the way. They were involved in the occult. They were going to be the ruling
class. They were involved with all the big, rich, powerful baronesses and heirs. He was
mad because they were kicking him out of that club when he set up his own little cult. So
he just went and killed a bunch of people to get back at him. We know that. I covered
it last hour when overall the evidence. But when you hear what he's saying all those years
ago, it's what Antifa is saying today. But they weren't this deranged. They had a lot
of well-meaning liberals that were well-spoken involved and really were against police brutality
and really were against real racism. And now they just mutated into something a thousand
times worse than I thought. Race-baiting and culture-dividing and shaving cream companies
saying it's bad to be a man. That article is up on infowars.com with the video. Toxic
masculinity everywhere. Genocide the whites. It's a good thing. Trump gets the black players
out of prison in China. Their dads, you know, like screw you. It's just a frothing-ness.
So when I coined the term left-right paradigm, I meant they control us within fighting left-right.
We should get out of it and just be pro-human. But now it really is a left-right issue in
that the globalist went for broke with leftist ideology worldwide because it's collectivist.
And that's what they want. And now it's metastasized, gone rogue in many ways, and has literally
gone insane. And I don't know where it's going now as they rampage and try to stop recovery,
as the EU implodes. And as this battle has joined, Stefan, I mean, what would you call
this time historically?
It is a time of the first potential pushback against the spread of state force and state
power in the history of the world. Somebody asked me the other day, Alex, it's an interesting
question. They said, have you ever noticed or known of a country that has turned back
from ever-increasing state power without going through some massive collapse and some massive
Godforsaken, Venezuela-style hunting pigeons in the town square and rats in the sewer,
fundamental decay. And it's really hard to think of one. But we do have this conversation,
we have this capacity to reach the masses, absent of gatekeepers. We can bypass everyone
who's supposed to keep the truth from the public.
So right now, we are facing an ever-increasing escalation of state power. There are the nationalistic
movements, the anti-EU movements, the anti-massive police state movements that are going on throughout
the West, personified with Nigel Farage and with Trump and with other people and so on.
So there is this pushback never in history. Has it ever been successful? Basically, people
have had to twiddle their thumbs, cry their tears and break their hearts as society slides
off the abyss and then crust their fingers that in a couple of hundred years, we can
get civilization back.
Now for the first time, we have the capacity to put the brakes on the inevitable tsunami
of escalating state power. And really, if you have the capacity to do that, that's all
you should be doing these days.
So not only do the tyrants have technology to manipulate, we now have technology that
keeps boomeranging back on them and their plans don't go the way they want more and
more and now humanity is learning from its mistakes. And most of the so-called minorities
I talked to are not racist idiots. They know about the manipulation. It's fake polls. It's
disinfo just like during the election. That's why they're panicking. They know they're losing
control.
Well, what people need are simple facts. And what we hope, I think, through providing simple
facts and reason and evidence to people as a whole, is we can get them to have their
love overcome their fear. This is going to sound all kinds of hallmarks sort of sile
squishy, but I think it's really, really important. There are people who, there is the left and
then there are the people who are the scared of the left. And those are the majority Republicans,
you know, prior to Trump and the Neva Trumpers and so on. So there are other people on the
left who openly admit that they'll use any satanic method that they can through their
Satan Prince Saul Alinsky. They've been very honest about this. They'll use whatever manipulations
they can. They have no stand. It's just to gain power. So there's the left, the hard
left.
They're a power cult.
They're a power cult.
They're a power cult.
Yeah. They're power cults. And so those, the left want our blood. The left want our subjugation.
And those who are scared of the left are hoping to appease them to buy a decade or two of peace.
Well, the decade or two was a decade or two ago and that no more appeasement is going
to work. It's going to all happen within our lifetime. So I want to bring people to love
freedom more than they fear the abusers, more than they fear the people who can harm you,
more than they fear the abuse of the media or of social media, more than they fear what
they can lose from people attacking them unjustly. And we see people, you know, Trump weighted
through endless accusations of abuse and racism and sexism. We've got Roy Moore who's not
backing down or backing out of what I think are unfounded allegations against him. We
have to show people how love can overcome fear, how love of freedom, love of the future,
love of our civilization, love of our history, love of our children. That is the only power
that can overcome the fear that will get us all plowed under in the usual socialist expansion
in history.
You're absolutely right. You've always got these socialist Jacob and Illuminati expansionists
who are the opposite of eliminating people to the counterfeit of, of, of, of what you
call the enlightenment and Francis Bacon and all the rest of it. And they are just dedicated.
They'll tell you to dominating you. They don't even want a civilization. They want to gouge
our eyes out, turn our skulls into goblets and then drink up all the wine and sit on
top of a pile of skulls and not even care that more wine doesn't come because they burn
down the vineyards. It's the same that we see in Africa killing all the white farmers.
It's just a power lust to have that minute of power gouging somebody's eyes out, even
though you're going to starve to death in two weeks.
Once somebody has admitted to you, Alex, that they have no principles, then there is no
end to their escalation of destruction. And we've seen this. We've seen this at the French
Revolution where you have thousands of priests and nuns dragged out of monasteries and churches
and chapels and eyes gouged out, throat slit, heads cut off in the streets. We saw this
in Cambodia where the first thing they did was target anybody with an intelligence above
100 and arguments above medievalism. They dragged them out into the cities. They forced them
to become farmers. Everyone starves to death. We saw this in the Ukraine under Stalin and
the Holodomor. When they collectivized all the farms, gave all of the farm machinery
to incompetent people, killed off all of the rich incompetent farmers and then millions
and millions of people starved to death. We saw this in China. Tens of millions of people
slaughtered. We saw this in North Korea where it's basically one giant open air prison camp.
There is no end to the escalation of the aggression they will use. This is why we have to not
just oppose the evil that is coming, but show the light of love and reason and happiness
and joy. And that is the light by which we must drive back to darkness because there's
an old saying that has really stuck with me from Nietzsche where he said, when you confront
monsters, when you face down monsters, be careful that you yourself does not become
a monster. We must oppose the evil, but guide ourselves by the good as much as possible.
Because when you stare into the abyss, a lot of times you become the abyss. We'll be back
with Stefan Malinu who again is on fire, ladies and gentlemen, will cover a bunch of big breaking
news with him and get into all these words they're trying to ban. Facebook told us you
use the word tranny, you're banned. But then the left can use it all they want. I mean,
this is true discrimination. Have you ever lost your power and wanted to simply flip
a switch to get the lights back on? If so, pay close attention because huge discounts
are now available in solar generators. Perfect for backup power outages and emergencies.
Portable solar generators provide life-saving electrical power when you need it most. And
unlike gas generators, a solar generator runs quietly, emits no dangerous fumes and produces
an endless supply of electricity from the sun. It's like having an electric power plant
running secretly in your own home. Right now, get a $5,000 solar generator for just $995
while supplies last. Go to mysolarbackup.com to learn more. That's mysolarbackup.com.
GCN listeners use coupon code GCN at checkout for this special offer. Mysolarbackup.com
use coupon code GCN, EMP protection available at an additional charge.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from m4store.com, you are funding the revolution. I mean, I
cannot say it any clearer. And so it is essential that you purchase the products at m4store.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that
for children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my
dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well. m4warslife.com or AAA-253-3139. And your purchase
of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against
the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies. And that's who they are, and they
know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
America is an information-based civil war. That's why now more than ever, we've got to
hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their
bullying. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counterculture. The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism
and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counterfeit
of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberals who defend free
speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60
original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot
Feral at m4warstore.com. Be part of the Second American Revolution at m4warstore.com.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why
is this so good? Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much
scares me the most. I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and
water and beverages in my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites,
which is anything that's harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism. Right now,
with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites. Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things
that are in it. You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bug, the organic
wormwood. I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year. All right, well, I'm
glad we've got some back in, because I'm going back on it today. It just came back in yesterday,
Living Defense, m4warstore.com. And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great
for your body, period. And you support the broadcast, m4warstore.com. Thank you, Dr.
Group, from the Global Healing Center. Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this
great product.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show. Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones coming
to you live from the front lines of the info war. We can rebuild him better than he was
before. We have the technology. We have the capability to make the world's first bionic
man. Steve Austin will be that man better than he was before. Better, stronger, faster.
All right, folks, we'll see if we can rebuild the republic and make it better and then everybody
wants to come here because it's not perfect. You can sure point all day at our wrongs and
our problems, but then why does everybody want to get here? Because there was a little
bit more freedom and a little bit more leave me alone. And suddenly you got all these choices
and suddenly you got all these doctors and suddenly you got all these vacations and suddenly
you got all these new appliances and suddenly you live longer and everybody then points
at it and says, it's evil. It's evil. Get rid of it. And Obama says, that's right. You
can't have cars or air conditioning if you're in Africa. How is that not the most racist
thing we've ever heard? So what you've got is a bunch of kleptocrats who want to use
the tidal forces of human nature, tribalism, and have a new reverse colonialism, but not
for the people of the third world invading the West to actually share in the spoils because
that's the plan is to have people come here and work and live and make things better.
No, to come here to politically conquer it. So Stefan Malin, I've been asking a lot of
questions and I've got a ton of news here. I want to go over with you, but what else
is on your radar screen you want to impart to the viewers?
Yeah, I was thinking about this, you know, calling the police on words that people find
offensive and so on. And I was just thinking over the break, Alex, you know what I really,
really want? And I think I speak for a lot of people in this. I want a little bit of
space. I want a little bit of breathing room. I feel like we're all kind of getting squished
up together with this political correctness. You know, it's like if I was doing the interview
and I had the camera right up here, be a little claustrophobic, a little bit of an invasion
in personal space and I really, really want some space. I want, like if people want to
change their agenda, just don't force me to pay for it. If people are irresponsible with
their sexuality, just don't force me to pay for it. If people would rather play video games
and learn some job skill, let them live with the lower wages. Let's have a little bit of
space. Let's have a little bit of personal privacy for our money, for our thoughts, for
our opinions. If you disagree with someone in the public square and it really bothers
you, go engage them. Mind to mind, verbal battle to verbal battle. Don't call the police
on a word you find upsetting. That is very claustrophobic and that's saying that we
don't have any personal space anymore. We don't have any privacy for our wallet. We
don't have any privacy for our communications. We don't have any privacy for being offensive.
And who on earth is to say that the person who is the most offensive now might not be
the person who gives us the biggest moral breakthrough in the future? Slavery, anti-slavery
was highly offensive to people when it first came out. Who on earth has the omniscience
to know that what is offensive now might not be moral tomorrow?
Well, the old left has said, hey, I may disagree with you, but I'll fight to death for you
to say it because political speech and unpopular speech is the most protected. And of course
you're talking about the article, college calls police on students who said, tranny,
they arrest you if you don't use the G or Z or whatever the new cult words are. How
about a cult? No longer use mother or father. We have words for you. Use this. It's a revolution.
They know what they're doing. And so they talk about their local anti-foot group. It's
Minnesota college and it's called devil worshiping queers. And notice the gay folks can use the
word queer all day. I don't care. But then somebody else says, Hey, they're having their
queer rally. It's the name of the rally. And I've had strikes on the YouTube for saying
they had this, you know, the such and such queer rally, which is the name of the rally.
Then I can't say the name of the rally because they're, it's like a God complex with the
left. And they're using these little subgroups then to be the little victims to where trannies
came up with the name training. That's the name they gave themselves. I looked it up
and I looked up where it came from this year. Facebook decided it's hateful. They banned
it. And so now everyone else is saying it's an FCC word when it's not. And it's just like
incredible that, that, that I had Facebook. So we're going to shut you down and ban you
on Facebook. We're going to shut, but, but we want to have one of our executives talk
to you. And I couldn't believe it was the head of the quote Facebook brands. So we get
in the phone call, we go, we're recording this, me, Rob doing us are in there. We haven't
played it yet. And then they don't even listen to us. They go, okay, well, just don't just
just paraphrase me. And then they go, just don't use that word. And I go, but what if
I'm reading a news headline, they just go, um, I'll call you back in a few days and we're
going to give you a full list of all the words you can't use. Well, they never called us
back. So I mean, I'm on a phone call with an executive telling me, don't say tranny,
tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny, tranny. I mean, again, folks, this
is such a war on words. It's crazy. What do you think?
Well, this is what happens when you get multiculturalism. Often so often Alex devolves into multi
legalism or multi rules. You know, multiculturalists kind of sold like, well, you can get a wide
variety of delectable treats on Main Street because there's going to be lots of different
kinds of ethnic restaurants. And oh, if you're really into Natasha Atlas, you'll be able
to appreciate her music even more. And it's all this softy gooey, you know, there'll be
different songs, different music, different food and so on. And that's great. And that's
how it's kind of sold to you. But what actually happens is you end up with different rules
for different groups. And they start off as ostracism punishment rules. And then they
escalate to banning on social media rules. And then they go all the way to legal rules
in society. And you end up with different rules for different groups. No objective standards.
You go from multiculturalism to multi legalism, where protected groups have different sentences,
protected groups have different rules. And you know, the N word can be used by rappers,
but not by anyone else. And this word can be used by this group. But if this group uses
it is horrible and opposing, you get this fragmented, broken, total discrimination and
it breaks society apart. It's total discrimination to it creates new classes, as you just said,
and they know what they're doing. This incredible balkanization, which results in the self policing
of people and the the hostile opposition to other groups. Because if you have to self
police all the time, if you're a white male, say for instance, you're not into any, you're
not in any protected group. So many white males, I just did this video on masculinity
as a whole. And so many white males are feeling like, well, I can't say this and I can't
apply for this job because it says, are you part of a minority or are you a woman when
you apply for this job? And I know if I don't check that off, I'm never getting to the interview
phase and I can't say this and everyone's going to attack me for that. And what happens
is then you see these other groups who seem to be getting away with astonishingly huge
breaks in these rules. And there's this frustration with your own inhibited state. And then there's
this mounting resentment against other people who flout these rules with impunity. And this
is how they set us against each other, create these rules, have them applied exactly. It's
meant to create right. 100 to these, it's meant to create racial division and fighting
each other. It's meant to create racial division. Exactly. The end game is all of us hating
each other. And it's such a shame because if we all agree to submit to reason and evidence,
we can have very positive and productive and enjoyable discussions. But we've turning
into it's like a science conference where you've got tarot cards and voodoo as to whose
conjecture or hypothesis becomes validated. No, we need reason and evidence because if
we simply bow to political correctness, we are going to tear ourselves apart as a society.
And those of us who can see the tears coming are desperately trying to sew them back together.
But there's lots of people out there with scimitarists just slashing away at the entire
tapestry and fabric of what holds us together as societies. And we must do everything we
can to prevent that from happening because what's on the other side of that tapestry
is a whole lot of blood and bones. 100%. And you notice for a long time, the Hollywood
elite, the comedians, they were exempt. They could tell the dirty jokes. They could just
say the racial jokes. Now they can't either. And they're not liking it. I mean, this is
such a prison that's been built and it's like a self perpetuating system that just gets
more loony and more crazy. I mean, I think it's destined to fail.
Well, we do have some bright sparks in all of this. And this all comes out of the alternative
media. The left has traditionally used allegations of sexual misconduct to undermine and cripple
their political opponents. We see that, of course, happening in Alabama. The plus side
is since now there's an alternative media to bring up Bill Clinton. They're now on the
left throwing the Clintons under the bus so that they can retain this weapon of sexual
allegations against the Republicans or non leftists. And anything which diminishes the
power of the Clintons in the public sphere, I find it really hard to think of is in any
way bad.
All right, Steph Ann Mullen is straight ahead. I'm going to play some of the band radio.
The police were called on this to create the color of law that they weren't allowed to
even describe the names of the groups. Because remember, the left's allowed to use all these
groups. You're not. They said so. We'll be back.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife. Our organic formula is made
from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through
the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our
natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and
get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfoWarsLife wants to
bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an
affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout. Head
on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
It's back, but it is a limited run because of all the testing and all the rest of it.
It's the highest quality. Read about what it'll do for you and your family. It is amazing.
We also have been sold out for three months on Biome Defense Super High Quality Probiotic.
It's 25% off, out of the gates, back in stock, but for a very limited time. So you get the
highest quality, the very cleanest stuff out there. We're really, really proud of it. DNA
Force and Biome Defense Probiotic. Now back in stock, infowarslife.com. When you buy products
from globalists, it's an act of trading with the enemy. It is an act of war. It is an act
of standing up when you spread the links, the articles, and buy products from us, and then
we commit to rampage against the enemy totally. Men, give your body the support it needs with
InfoWarsLife Prostaguard. It's time to start assisting the body in regulating proper prostate
balance. InfoWarsLife has set out to bring you formulations that are not only the highest
quality out there, but formulas that you can use on a daily basis to give your body the
natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend. The Prostaguard formula does just
that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients and antioxidants that help give your body
total support. It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols,
zinc, vitamin D3, selenium, and copper. Prostaguard is something that the men on the InfoWars
crew take every day, and from our research, it's something that men should really be adding
to their daily regimen in order to keep their body going at optimal levels. Now is the time
to start naturally supporting your body. Get Prostaguard on your side today exclusively
at InfoWarsLife.com. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
America is an information-based civil war. That's why now, more than ever, we've got
to hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down
from their bully. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe
dictatorship. Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian, or simply a free speech advocate
is truly the counterculture. The real punk rock is being a patriot, who's pro-America,
pro-capitalism, and pro-freedom, who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is
a counterfeit of Thomas Jefferson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberalists.
To defend free speech, meet like-minded friends, and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more
than 60 original designs of high-quality t-shirts for men and women, as well as more Patriot
Feral at InfoWarsStore.com. Be part of the Second American Revolution at InfoWarsStore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm Alex Jones, your host, Stefan Malanou, is writing Shotgun with us today. Stefan Malanou
has his new book out that I've read. It's excellent, The Art of the Argument, Art of
the Argument.com. Be sure and get that and find out more at Free Domain Radio on YouTube,
while it's still there. Two weeks ago, Congressional hearings, they openly said, oh, we saw Paul
Watson's article at InfoWars was number one about the attack, saying it was Islamic and
that the mayor had been warned. This is fake news, and then Twitter, Facebook, Google,
these extra, like, sir, we saw it at lunch and took it down. And despite all their censorship,
we've had five billion views altogether. I know because YouTube told us, they said,
let us monetize all this, but also take most of the other channels down. You let everybody
use your stuff, but I knew it was just a way to give them the authorization to take all
my material off. So we don't just have our two, whatever, billion views on our channels.
We have three billion. That was a couple of years ago. They told us it's like four billion,
so I'm guessing it's five billion now. It's probably way bigger. They don't like the fact
we're way bigger in the young turks. I think bigger is like something like PewDiePie, who
they want to take over because they don't control him, even though he's not even political.
It's about control. People don't want their Hollywood garbage. They don't want their mainstream
trap anymore. You can get a few idiots that do, but people want real diversity and ideas.
But we're under censorship. That's why you got to hand share the links to infowars.com
and the stories and the videos and the live feeds on Facebook, on Twitter, on YouTube,
and on other platforms. It's why you are absolutely authorized to grab our feeds and put them
on your Facebook, your Twitter, your YouTube, whatever. Just get the information out there.
Support our local radio stations. Become a sponsor. Support their sponsors. Support us.
We've got free shipping through this week. I'm extending because of the Black Friday
sales and it got back in stock. 50% off Brainforce are incredibly popular, new tropic. Brands
that are similar are $60 to $70. It's a deal at $39. It's $19.95 right now, but it's a
small shipment. We're not going to get more and probably till the end of the year. So
Brainforce Plus, 50% off. We've got some other big specials we're running today as well,
but a lot of these specials can only run for a few days. So Brainforce Plus is the special
that we've got today and 25% off Pro Pure water filtration systems and several other
big specials. Don't forget our fluoride free toothpaste. It's got colloidal silver and
iodine in it. Don't forget we've got our new line of probiotics, fluorolife in the digestive
enzyme for big carnivores. Carnivore. Check that out at infowarstore.com. And when you
get excited about what we're doing, we can get more crew, more people. We can expand
and not be destroyed because we're either going to grow under these attacks and believe
me, they're intense or we're going to implode. And I've decided to grow in the face of it.
Big fish eat little fish. So whether it's highest quality body armor at the best prices
or whether it's books and films and non GMO heirloom seeds, thousands of great preparedness
items at infowarstore.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
And there's several specials we had last week. They're about to end. I don't have time to
get into, but, but, but Stefan, we're really right. I mean, we're not just here saying
all of this. It's really happening. They're going more insane. What is the limit on the
rotting intellectual fruit that is the power cult that's modern liberalism and the decaying
Republican establishment? Because as you said, they were just a bunch of lazy ne'er-do-wells
who thought they were in power as culture kings, imposing their will on everybody, but
then really they're just a bunch of camp followers of a cold-blooded corporate takeover system.
As they realize that they've not in power anymore, those of us that are libertarian
or freedom-based, we're just, maybe we've got them off our back a little bit. We understand
it. It's not like feeling powerful because our ideas are being a little bit represented.
It's like a desperate beach head, hoping we can turn the tide against these mentally
ill people. I mean, they're the most depressed. They're the most pathetic. You get Facebook
documents with the executive shade. These liberals are pathetic, servile, deranged, depressed
people. Let's keep them more depressed and suck them dry. I mean, it's so cold-blooded,
Hillary calling them losers in their mother's basements and how much she hates her constituents,
but they don't care. They still march on worshiping her, but then Dona Brazil starts
to wake up and others start to wake up that their brand's dying, but I think it's too
little too late. This is where I see things, Alex. We are in a house. The sun is rising.
The vampires are beating down the door, but we still have to invite them in. If we don't
invite them in, poof, they turn into ash from the rising sun. They have missed the opportunity
to crush us. You know, you've been doing this longer than I have. I've been doing it for
about 11 years in a public sphere, many, many years before that in a private sphere. Back
in the day, they tried to smash me down back in the day and continually they try to smash
you down, but it's too late. We have become too big. There are too many interconnected
people. There are too many networks. There are too many freedom lovers who are supporting
each other. Now if they try and smash people down, all they do is raise the profile. In
other words, what I'm saying is the Liberty virus, my friends, has gone airborne. It can
no longer be contained. And that means that it's a wonderful opportunity for everyone
out there. Please do not view the liberation of Western civilization as a spectator sport.
Do not sit there passively in your chair, thumb in your remote and hoping that other
people are going to save the world for you. We have passed the tipping point. The Overton
window has gone so far now that what was impossible before has become commonplace now. What was
radical before has become commonplace now. So I invite and urge everyone, everyone, do
not have this incredibly powerful moment in time be nothing more than something you look
at and are passively hoping that other people will do for you. Get up, get involved, support,
start something, write something. It's a webcam and a microphone. You can do that for 50 bucks.
Really dig deep. Find a way to talk passionately about freedom. Don't let them conquer you.
Don't let them conquer you. And don't let other people save you. You know, there's
an old, it was a poster when I was a kid that was around. And it was a kid looking at his
father after the Second World War. And this was during the Second War. And the kid was
saying, Daddy, what did you do in the Great War? And the kid, the father was like shameface
and looking down because I don't know. I guess he didn't really, really do much of anything.
This is easier. It's much easier than trench warfare. You know, we know what he's asking
us to snort mustard gas into our lungs or, you know, have shells barrage down on our
heads at least yet. So it's much easier. This is the easiest fight that has ever had
for the greatest stakes in human history. And please, please, I beg people on my knees,
do not let this opportunity for heroism pass you by. Self-esteem, self-respect is something
that you really have to fight for. It's like health. It doesn't just happen to you. You
have to take active steps to have pride in yourself. And there's no greater gift to yourself
than acting in a courageous, moral manner against vicious and immoral people. So everybody
has this opportunity. The barrier to entry has never been lower. The stakes have never
been higher. And the fight, frankly, has never been more fun. Join in.
That's right. And again, I don't like to demonize our enemies because that's something that
means I've got a crutch and I want to feel elitist. I mean, you know, those of us that
have natural compass know that putting somebody else down doesn't make us bigger, but you
have to recognize that any Hillary event or any Democrat event, these aren't just anti-five
events. These are gibbering, hateful people that can hardly talk. And they are lunatics.
And it's getting worse. And it is a mass form of psychosis. And of course, that's been
proven in psychology. You don't just have individual psychosis. Humans are designed
that usually somebody in the group must know the right way. So they're following a bad
leader and they won't admit they've been wrong and they won't admit things are serious. It's
like the Germans still thought they were going to win when the Russians were a mile away
from the right Chancellor and Hitler still thought he was going to win till two days
before. And it just shows, I kind of got to give it to them though. They won't give up,
but they're becoming characters of zombies. I mean, here's just 10 seconds of this. We
can't show a lot of it because of the radio stations and TV stations and most, I mean,
it's been bleep, but they're flipping everybody off. They're cussing screaming. These are women
attacking our female reporter, physically grabbing on her, grabbing the mic cussing
at her for just coming up, trying to talk to him about Bill Clinton. Here it is at a
Hillary book signing. You're not going to get away with this. Now this is Hillary Clinton's
assignment. Whoa. Boo. I agree. We got to cover all the flipping off because we're on a lot
of TV stations now and I guess you can't FCC show them flipping everybody off. I didn't
even know that. I apologize to some of the stations that called us last Friday. I was
showing some of these women flipping people off and they're like, you can't show that.
So, but, but it's only picked a few. They're all like this. What happened to them?
Well, there are people, of course, who use false ethics to gather power and there are
other people though who have good intentions, who simply have the wrong information. So
I put Twitter at something this morning, which I'll mention briefly here, Alex, which is,
you know, people care about poor people in the third world. Now in the past, when Western
companies went to the third world and scraped up a bunch of resources and took them out
of the third world, people said, well, that's wretched, terrible imperialism. Okay, I understand
that case.
But now in the West, a lot of countries in the West are scooping up the smartest people
from the third world and bringing them into the West. Now, intelligence is one of the
greatest natural resources along with empathy that the world has. So how is it terrible
to strip my natural resources from the third world in the past, but now taking the intelligent
people, the most competent and educated people out of the third world, thus damning those
countries to ever to change.
It's a total brain drain.
Stay there. I want to do five more minutes because I noticed this. Even when I was a
little kid in the country, people were smart, they were cool, they were good looking. Now
I go to the countryside where a lot of my family's from, and it looks like Beverly
Hillbillies, and it's just cable TV or satellite TV and people, because it's like the brain's
left. And it's the same thing with the third world. It just wipes it out. We'll be right
back. That's a key point you just made.
Power of B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need
every day. Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargists. Secret
12, optimal absorption. B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting
your intercellular processes. B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning
of the brain and nervous system, optimum levels. Secret 12 is an easy way to increase
your vitamin B12 intake. Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function
with Secret 12. That's infowarslife.com. Enjoy all natural bath and beauty products
with Emmerich's Essentials. We are proud to bring you a collection of organic-based
household products at infowarsstore.com, including non-nano SPF 30 zinc oxide sunscreen, date-free
herbal bug spray, concentrated peppermint mouthwash, unscented body wash, tea tree shampoo,
and long-lasting natural deodorant. Emmerich's Essentials is free of chemicals and toxins
that may harm your body. We carefully select pure and simple ingredients to create formulas
that are certified USDA made with organic. Our mission is to offer you everyday organic
household products to enhance your life. Truly feel the difference by going organic natural
without compromising on quality. Feel good about using Emmerich's Essentials. Start
saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients. Visit infowarsstore.com
and learn more about the new Emmerich Essentials line of organic products. That's infowarsstore.com.
We are listening to an infowars.com front-line report. It's Alex Jones.
And Stefan Malinu, I'm going to host a little bit in the next hour. Matt Dubigel of our
wonderful 1530 WCKG affiliate that also has an FM station, but very soon is going to be
covering the entire city from a very powerful position on top of a very important building.
We will announce that in the next month. Stefan Malinu made a really good point. I was thinking
about this this morning. What made the Western expansion across the United States so important
was you had dozens of different factions just in the tribes alone. You had the Spanish,
you had the Russians, you had the British, you had the French, and you had all these
other groups coming in to the Wild Wild West that was 95% empty. You had the tribes jockeying
to get different Westerners to fight on their side. It was barbarous, but it was also empowering
for humans. And that's why the invention and things came out of it, because we're meant
to be trailblazing, we're meant to be pushed. And you read the annals of the people on wagon
trains and all of it, even though they had kids dying and everything, it was invigorating,
it was real. You walk around in a rich neighborhood, you walk around in a poor neighborhood. People
are like zombies on their smartphones. They look unconscious. They look ugly. Even if
a woman looks like she once had attractive features, they look like zombies. It's the
television. It's the culture. It's the sedentary lifestyle. It's all of it. And then you look
at the brain drain out of the countryside in America. And you know, I don't care what's
black people, white people, they all look different. They look like they're had their
souls sucked out, unless there's still some of the people still working on the land doing
it. A lot of them are just kind of on welfare or doing little jobs, living in trailers,
watching TV all day. They don't have a purpose. And then you see the attack on the ethos,
the attack on the West, the attack on that because it was a consciousness. It was a culture.
And instead they've given us this. It's total death. We got three minutes left, Steph, on
Malinu, but the globalist brain drain from the third world is just like from the countryside
to the cities. And the globalist then never even put enough money into the countries like
Apple to let the Chinese have a livable wage like Henry Ford so they can buy the stinking
iPhone. But as long as they say they're liberal and virtue signal, it's okay when they're
the most anti-human, cold-blooded people admitting they don't want industrialization
for the Chinese, for the Africans. They're just scum. They know they're scum. Go ahead.
So the most important thing I think in this area, Alex, is something called the Pareto
principle, which everyone needs to become familiar with. And the Pareto principle goes
something like this. The square root of the number of people produces half the value of
that group. So if you've got nine people, three people are producing half the value.
If you have 100 people, 10 people, if you have 10,000 people in the company, 100 people
are producing half the value. Now, if you have a company where smart people start to
leave for whatever reason, then the smartest people leave, it means that the company productivity
goes down enormously. If you get the top 100 people leaving, okay, you still have 9,900
workers in a 10,000 worker company, but half your productivity is gone. This is why people
become rich and other people middle class, other people are poor. There's a bell curve
of productivity. Think of the third world. Western civilization rests on the brains,
hearts, minds, and muscle of maybe 2,000 people. Maybe. Maybe 2,000 people who innovated, who
reasoned, who took risks, who scientifically, philosophically, economically moved us all
forward. In the third world, there are a small number of people who can reform the third
world and make it into a better place. Now, if the West comes along with the giant immigration
suction machine, hoover those people up from the third world, then if the top 1% of smart
people from the third world end up in the first world, what happens? The third world
becomes catastrophically worse, and that means the next tier of people are desperate to get
out and make it to the first world. And then there's a nose down. There's a third tier
of people and we end up with a complete disaster and everyone migrating to Europe, the destruction
of the wealth for a state, the undermining of Western civilization, all because the West
could not resist the temptation of having instant taxpayers hoovered in from the third
world and gave up on having children of their own.
Absolutely beautifully said. I could not. I mean, that's it. And it's, it's designed
to melt down and you read the globalist actuaries, they know they're doing this and then plan
with AI and stuff to then control the implosion, which they're going to use to take over this.
This has got to be stopped.
And the only way to stop it is to defend your own culture and reason and speak and not adopt
globalism rejected. Rejecting globalism is accepting life. Accepting globalism is submitting
to death. Powerful. Love the new book, my friend, Stefan Malinu, the art of the deals
out there, but he's got his new book, The Art of the Argument. Find it. Hey, thank you
so much, my friend.
Thank you.
We'll be back.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting
edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids. One of them is a powerful
pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being able to break down, meet other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains
in fluorolife advanced restoration. And we also have an every day extremely affordable
fluorolife, everyday maintenance. But all of these are the very cutting edge, top of the
line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price. That is my goal
here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price when you purchase it. And then
for store.com, you know, you are also financing the globalist and the defense of our republic
and freedom worldwide.
Discover trends and global developments years before they happen right here on the Alex Jones
show.
Yeah, yeah.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are back live broadcasting worldwide at WL of 1530 WCKG in Chicago, one
of our great affiliates in the country. Co host here with the fourth hour, he's about
to take over. But I wanted to come back on the broadcast here and just just just introduce
something here with Thanksgiving, accelerating up on us so incredibly quickly. And it's just
that when you study the attack on the West and you study the attack on free market, and
when you study how the globalists
are our engineering society.
And you look at how cold blooded it is. You have their plan. And they knew that America
found its soul and its new ethos in the West in the expansion and in the swashbuckling,
freebooting experiences that happened.
A new culture came out of it from the Native Americans and from the Spanish and from the
French and the British and the Scots and the Irish and the Chinese and everything else.
And that out of that came the most inventions, the most science rugged people strength. And
America was in love with the idea of exploring and innovating and going out and taking a
risk. The globalists want you in a nanny state hooked into a computer desperate and alone.
And I know you know that and it's in the WikiLeaks and it's in the Facebook documents and it's
in everything they do. And it's let's wake up from this nightmare. Let's say no to it.
I mean you never see on the news the type of stuff that's gone on in Indonesia or that's
gone on in Pacific islands or that's gone on in Africa or it's gone on in Latin America
and the carnage and the enslavement and the murdering and the killing and the stealing
and the rich elites that always openly say to anthropologists of course I keep the village
poor hard to keep them in their place. That's the feudal system that they had in Europe
that they had in China that they've had everywhere. And we're trying to get out of that monopoly.
The idea that free markets wasteful because it makes you rich so we should get rid of
it. Well the Soviet Union is even more destructive or China or North Korea. We need to have good
clean living and get cleaner systems and we've done that and we've innovated that.
But this guilt that they put on us has been cooked up by psychological warfare experts
in their own admissions to attack our culture. I'm not saying our culture is perfect but
they attack it because they're overriding it with something that isn't a culture. It's
a system of guilt and fear of knowledge and fear of words and fear of communication and
fear of real diversity. It's a prison system turning us all into groups in our little sub
area. And it's the final end game of authoritarianism and the entire battle group structure of
the globalist is they are preparing the way for the new species and cannot wait to dispatch
us in an orderly way. Not through war but through chemical, biological and electromagnetic
systems. They've got technology where they can hit a button and make everybody's heart
stop. It puts out an electromagnetic wavelength pulse that makes your brain trigger death.
It kills almost everybody. They've had it for 60 years. They've had neutron bombs for
60 years. That's another system. I mean, it's unlimited, ladies and gentlemen. And that's
the power trip. They used our money, our ideas, our ingenuity to build all this super science
and now notice they want to kind of slow technology down. Oh, forget it. That stuff's never going
to come out. That's because they're warehousing. The SR-71 Blackbird was developed in the late
1940s and it was in service by the mid 1950s, just classified and then wasn't unveiled later
until the 60s. The SR-71 Blackbird admittedly can go about Mach 5, but reportedly it's a
lot faster. It's a space plane. It flies up into space. Now, do you believe an aircraft
in service in 1955 is still the fastest aircraft in the world? The answer is no, it's not.
And that's just the beginning of it, ladies and gentlemen. And so the globalists, the
elite psychopaths, they are seeing all this and are testing it on us and now really do
have massive life extension. They've got stuff that's AI. It's just not self-aware, but it's
artificially intelligent. And what we know they've got is so advanced that that's why
they act like we don't even exist now. They've got a plan. They're carrying it out and they
don't want us to be aware of it or to have any culture. And people that are part of it
are scared and are there dutifully following their orders. You watch those Google, Facebook
and Twitter executives in those hearings attacking Info Wars. They were scared of Congress and
they were scared and they were there like little scientists. Yesterday we're doing it.
Program operational is, we're going to shut them down, don't worry, because they've been
dialed in. They want themselves to be safe. That's why almost none of them have families
because they're saying no one in the EU leadership now has children except for five countries
that are pulling out of it. They all have kids. All the major elites don't have children
now, ladies and gentlemen, because they've been told you may not get access into the
ARC centers, the below ground facilities in places during this if you've got kids and
we don't want your kids there. They're like, we understand. I mean, we're close, folks.
None of them are having kids because they wouldn't put kids through what's about to
happen. I'm having more. I'm taking everything. I'm putting everything I got on the table.
I'm going to have more children. We're going into this. We're going to win. Putting everything
on the line. I'm not a coward. I'm having more. And I love them more than my life a
thousand times. And that's why I love them enough to put them on the table so they have
a future and I'm not going to give up on humanity just because these sick psychopaths have decided
to bring in world government, kill everybody. Because let me tell you something, the words
out on what you've done. I don't care how much AI you've got, how many droid armies
you've got, how many drone air forces you've got. They got 20,000 predator drones, folks.
That's not for foreign governments. That's for us. That's for our military to take them
out. I said this 20 years ago, reading DARPA documents in the two terminators ago, you
learn it's a crazy woman who uploaded her brain into Skynet and it's what nuked everything
and took over. And they're just telling you what they're doing. They're crazy people that
want to upload themselves into machines. They believe they're God and they want to kill the
scourge that's on the planet first because they're projecting their hatred of themselves
onto us and they really believe they're going to get away with this. And I'm here to tell
them, you're not going to get away with your plan, your self-driving cars, all your crud,
you're bringing out. You're going to get away with a lot of it, but down the road, even
if you're successful in the first 95% of your operation, you're going to be dug out of those
holes and you're going to be begging to God of those holes. Do you people think your instinct
to kill everybody and your instinct to stab people in the back and your instinct to hate
humanity is going to stop when you're all put yourselves in hell under the ground, gone
into rat holes yourself so you can try to wipe everybody out? Good luck, scum. Good
luck. I'm telling you right now, your new world order is dead. Your EU is dead. Your
whole project's dead. Here's the problem. All the AI, all the corruption, even though
your system's being betrayed, you were just building it. There's going to be bigger wars
and there's going to be all sorts of problems. If we try to not destroy ourselves, we still
might. And so we're entering an incredible time to be alive and we need people to be
informed and know what's going on and understand that you can get next year's news today. Not
because we're rocket scientists, because we're following their operations. They operate out
in the open like you're an idiot. We're here simply telling you what their plan is and
pointing out they've gotten a lot of this stuff done before. You better take them serious.
These are homicidal psychopathic killers. So remember this Thanksgiving, all the attacks
on the West is because the West isn't out to totally murder you and wants prosperity
in an idea. And they want to kill that idea. Matt Doobie L takes over straight ahead.
Hello, Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news
sites. We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist. Tired of your internet
activity being monitored by Big Brother, getvirtualshield.com. The world's easiest to use virtual
private network. Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the
dust. Get started today at virtualshield.com. Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private. Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon. I'm talking
thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon. Savory and delicious. I buy some. I use some.
I store some. Awesome. No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life. NASA-packed technology.
Full bacon. Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon. Or
warm and serve. Life saving, ready to eat bacon. 10-year shelf life bacon. Ships free
at fullycookedbacon.com. Fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs. So you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family. Since 2005, thousands have depended on herky purified water. The
burky guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size. For incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency, get to goburky.com. We're call 877-886-3653. 877-886-3653. Goburky.com.
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for
some unique holiday gift ideas. That's slingbow.com, where we have some innovative new products
for the archer, hunter, or bow fishing enthusiast in your family. Now through January, use the
promo code HOLIDAY to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada. And from all of us at
slingbow industries, have a safe, joyous, and peaceful holiday season.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue, and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid
hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products. Infowars
Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or
try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and super charge your oral health. Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times. Instead of containing
fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other
beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits. Super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our
super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health
routine at InfowarsStore.com. That's InfowarsStore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You want to stop tyranny? Well, so does he. Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex
Jones. We'll be filling in for the great Alex Jones from Chicago from the WCKG studios
on AM 1530 in Chicago and FM 102.3. It was just listening myself to Alex talking with
Stefan Mullenew and I want to talk about some of the things that Stefan was bringing up
with Alex. But before we do, like I do every time I step in, I want to say thanks to the
folks at Infowars. Thanks to Alex for letting me pop in and bring attention to Chicago.
You're not going to hear on the news that the death toll for November is 24 in the month
of November. November 24 people dead in Chicago, most of them due to gun violence. I'm not
a proponent of banning or blocking or inhibiting our Second Amendment rights. In fact, I believe
the solution to that problem, the problem in Chicago that it's Las Vegas every month
in slow motion, Las Vegas every month in slow motion in Chicago. And why is this important
to you if you're not in Chicago? Why do you care? Why do you give a crap if you're not
in Chicago, if you're not in Detroit, if you're not in Missouri, another terrible St. Louis,
another terrible crime-ridden city? A beautiful city, but terribly crime-ridden. It's got
a crime problem. It's got a murder problem. It's got an illegal gun problem. It's got
a gangbanger problem. It's got a drug problem. Why do you care if you're in Omaha? Why do
you care if you're in the South? Why do you care if you're not in a big city because it's
coming to a theater near you? And I don't mean via the movies. I mean via real life.
So what you see happening in Detroit, what you see happening in Chicago, what you see
happening in New York, just like what you see happening on Twitter sometimes and what
you see happening on Facebook sometimes is a snake preview. How will the people react?
How will the plebs react? What will happen when this happens? So you can lay down and
take it or you can take action. Twenty-four people dead in November for the month of November
24. For the year 2017, we're at 616 dead. Now, I don't know what the total is. Maybe
somebody can do the math since Rahm Emanuel took office in 2011, but more people I believe
have died in Chicago than have died in some wars. It's our home turf here. So I like to
bring attention to that every time I'm on because, as I said, it's coming to a theater
near you. It's coming. It's Las Vegas every month in slow motion here in Chicago. And
if it's allowed to happen in Vegas, if it's allowed to happen in Chicago, it's allowed
to, going to be allowed to happen in your town, USA, even though your police are being
militarized, even though your local police department may have a really shiny, cool tank
and lots of combat gear for the police while they're being underwritten by the feds. My
name is Matt, and I'm not necessarily going to keep having kids, although I'd love to.
I have four kids myself. Alex, if you just missed it in the last break, he was talking
about having more kids. And probably a lot of us Americans need to be doing that. The
other side, the other people are some of them breeding like crazy. And over time, there's
some polls that will show you that radical Islamists are going to be outbreeding Christian
conservative Americans and just level headed people in general over the course of the next
10, 20 and 30 years and beyond. Whether you're going to be having more kids or no kids, many
of us in the United States, hopefully you with people you love are going to be celebrating
Thanksgiving. It's a holiday that is one of my favorites. We celebrate it in my home.
We have about 40 people over people. I love more than anything. It's a good time. It's
a great time to reflect not only on the things that we have to be thankful for as Americans,
but the things we have to be thankful for as human beings. Some of us practice being
grateful on a daily basis. Some of us forget. Some of us do it in our prayer. Some of us
do it when we wake up in the morning and when we go to bed at night. Thank God for our heart
beating and our lungs breathing and our brain working. Those sort of simple things, the things
that we're able to enjoy, our ability to walk. If you're a woman, the ability to speak, to
not have to be covered up in a sweaty garment as a law, to be able to walk freely, to be
able to drive like everybody else. Some of these things we all take for granted and it's
human nature because you just get into everyday life and you just take it for granted while
I can drive. I'm really grateful for the guy and people that invented the automobile. I
don't have to take a horse and buggy to wherever I'm going. I don't have to churn the butter
in order for us to eat. Thank you. It's great to be thankful. It's great to be grateful.
And there are studies out there that show the more grateful you are, the more thankful
you are, the better you feel, the better the life around you is. The better things happen
to you. Some people might say it's part of the simulation. It's part of the code in
the simulation that we're experiencing. Others will say that that's just the way it is and
that's the way God works. Either way, no matter what you believe, no matter who you pray to,
no matter what you celebrate, if you're an American and you're celebrating Thanksgiving,
you're likely going to be getting together with many family members, many, many family
members. Not all of them are going to agree with you. Not all of them see things the way
that you see things. And how do you deal with that? How do you handle the Thanksgiving festivities
when you know that that one cousin or that one aunt or that one uncle, or maybe you're
the one cousin and you're the one aunt or you're the one uncle? How do you red pill
the people you love the most, the people that you want to be on your side the most, the
people that you have the best chance of getting in the foxhole next to you if the fit hits
the shan like it could and like it probably will one day when it's going to be very important
to be around people that are like minded on the same team. How do you red pill those people
so that you have a network that you can count on? How do you do it without ruining the holiday?
How do you do it without getting the frying pan? How do you do it so that you're not sitting
in one room and everyone else is sitting in another and everyone's going, well, we're
not going there again. We're not going to so-and-so's house for Thanksgiving or we're
not inviting so-and-so to Thanksgiving. I can't tell you what to do. I can only share
with you what I do and I do this every year when I host Thanksgiving. I'm going to give
you the things that I do in order to red pill my family without coming off as a douche without
everybody leaving going, oh man, we're not going back there. Some of you might think
it's oversimplified, but I'm going to tell you it works like a charm. It works for my
kids. It works for my family. We all have a great time. We are celebrating the gift of
being an American. We're celebrating the gift of being thankful for being free. We have
a bill of rights. We have a constitution and every year everybody leaves happy, happy,
happy, happy as the duck commander guy would say. So we're going to talk about that coming
up in the next segment. We're also going to talk a little bit about this video I saw.
I saw an Info Wars reporter, Millie Weaver, in the trenches. Boy, she's got some guts
and the way she handled herself was pretty phenomenal and the amount of hate and vitriol.
And it was so disgusting to me to see how people treated her, but I was grateful and
thankful for the way that she behaved and how she handled herself. I want to point some
of that out. I'll also point out some of the things I noticed about our president's press
conference last week. His little bottle of water gaff that everybody says is a gaff.
I see it a little bit differently. A commemorative President Trump dollar for only $5? Yes, the
historic Trump dollar starts at only $5 at trumpdollar.us. Choose from our unique three-coin
collection in gold, silver, and copper. The vote Trump dollar, inaugural Trump dollar,
and make America great again, Trump dollar. Available only at trumpdollar.us. Minted in
the USA, our Trump dollars commemorate President Trump's patriotic stand. Order your Trump
dollar collection today in time for Christmas delivery at trumpdollar.us. That's trumpdollar.us.
Hey, Daniel Bremen. Why new manna, storeable foods? We believe in freedom. America needs
strong independent families to endure what's ahead. And we take this charge seriously.
We got options. Organic, no gluten, without the chemicals. Great taste and value. New
manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence. Get your new manna today.
Call 888-597-0-775. 888-597-0-775. Online discounts available at powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high-quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto-ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareShore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when
you sign up for auto-ship because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers. Number
three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listers have been requesting
this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each
month. Just go to InfoWareShore.com, select your favorite product or products, click
on auto-ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you know,
I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto-ship feature at InfoWareShore.com, this
is a sure win. 10% off on auto-ship. Win, win, win at InfoWareShore.com, free shipping
on orders above $50. And all out-of-stock items are never out of stock when you sign
up for auto-ship. Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep
the body functioning at optimum levels. Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. With our modern
diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day. Up,
up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every day. Secret 12 combines two bioactive
forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption. Up, up, up, up, optimal absorption. Being
deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy. Secret
12. Up, up, up, up, optimal absorption. B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by
supporting your intercellular processes. B vitamins are also essential for the optimal
functioning of the brain and nervous system. Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. Secret 12 is
an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake. Head to InfoWareShore.com and support
optimal brain and body functioning with Secret 12. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
I point out a lot to our listeners and viewers that without you funding our operation by
purchasing products at InfoWarsTore.com, we would not be here. We don't have corporate
sponsors. We don't have globalist funding. We're funded by patriots like you and we
also, of course, provide high-quality products to make it easy to support yourself and to
support us symbiotically as we try to retake this country and the planet and heal the population
that's been under globalist engineering. That said, we're running biggest specials
ever every single year during Black Friday and this year is even better than last year.
We've got free shipping store-wide on everything. We've got huge sales like Brainforce 50%
ProPure, Waterfulers 25% off. We've got 50% off on select high-quality storeable foods.
That's unprecedented. We've got super male volatility 50% off and so much more. So check
it out today.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
Well, sort of. I'm defending and doing that stuff on behalf of Alex Jones for the fourth
hour. My name is Matt Dubiel and I'm the big mouth here at WCKG in Chicago, AM 1530, FM
102.3. Today I am personally powered by Brainforce. If you want to try something that is a little
better than coffee, a little bit better than shoving energy drinks down your pipe, I can
say that I've been taking Brainforce for about a month now and it's working. It is working
and it doesn't give you that energy drink buzz with the two o'clock crash. The good
news is, is if you go to infowarslife.com or infowarsstore.com right now for a limited
time only, there's a holiday special 50% off Brainforce plus 50% off Brainforce plus.
Get it. Get it now. Try it. You'll thank me. You'll thank those people over there. All
right. So Thanksgiving is coming up. Thursday is Thanksgiving. At my house, we have everyone
over. My role at Thanksgiving is we cook three turkeys and one of them we deep fry and the
other two we cook traditionally and the family comes over and it's one of the greatest days
of the year. It's one of the things I look forward to all year because I love my family.
We have a big family. My kids are there. I get to show them what family is all about.
A lot of times you and I, we tell people, we tell people they should watch this movie.
We tell people they should watch this video. We tell people, listen to Alex or listen to
this guy, listen to Stefan Molinou, follow so and so. We tell, tell, tell, tell. And
if you're a father, if you've had a father, what you'll notice is your father shows you.
He tells you, but he also shows you. And as children that have been brought up by fathers,
what we end up doing is, is we end up doing what our father showed us. Sometimes we don't
do what he told us to do, but we almost always do what he showed us to do. So I told you
that I would share with you the way to red pill your entire family at Thanksgiving. This
is a foolproof way for you to red pill your entire family to the virtues of doing the
right thing, to the virtues of maybe even being conservative and having the right ideals
without alienating your family, without having them think that you're just an a-hole and
without ruining the holiday. Here's how you do it. Now and think, imagine, you know, fast
forward it to Thursday, maybe you're going to have football on. And inevitably the conversation
is going to come up between family members about football, like, ah, what do you think
about, you know, the football players and what do you think about the standing and what
do you think about the kneeling and it's a trap. It's a trap because no matter what
you think and no matter what uncle so-and-so thinks, what you both know is you love each
other and it's going to be a good day if you can find some common ground and love each
other. Now I'm not suggesting that you roll over and say that maybe something should happen
that you don't believe in. I'm not suggesting that you advocate for the NFL players if you
don't believe in it. What I'm suggesting is that maybe you show and not tell. And I'm
going to explain exactly what I mean and I'm going to share with you, and this may seem
a little corny, but I'm going to share with you a poem that my dad shared with me and
that I've shared with my children. And I think that as I share this poem with you, it's called
if and you can find it online. It's very old. It's by Rudyard Kipling. Rudyard Kipling
wrote this poem if. And as I tell you about it, as I share it with you, I think you're
going to realize that it very much describes our current president as least as he's showing
himself to us right now. And it definitely describes the way that I was brought up and
it describes to my children the way that we intend on living our lives. And I'm just
going to start it out because the synopsis of it is if you can keep your head when all
about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you. If you can keep your head when all
about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you. Now imagine play through the last
couple of years and the presidential race, the primary, the current state of politics
as I read and I share this poem with you. Imagine how you're going to display to your
family, how you're going to show, not tell. You're not going to tell everybody about
your politics. You're just going to show them about your values. It goes like this. This
is called if. If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, but make allowance for
their doubting too. If you can wait, not being tired by waiting or being lied about, don't
deal in lies or being hated. Don't give way to hating and yet don't look too good nor
walk too wise. If you can dream and not make dreams your master. If you can think and not
make thoughts your aim. If you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two imposters
just the same. If you can bear to hear the truth you've spoken twisted by naves to make
a trap for fools or watch the things you gave your life to broken and stoop and build them
up with worn out tools. I'm getting chills when I read this. I get chills when I give
it. I get chills when I read it to my kids. If you can make one heap of all your winnings
and risk it all on one turn of pitch and toss and lose and start again at your beginnings
and never breathe a word about your loss. If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
to serve your turn long after they are gone and so hold on when there is nothing in you
except the will which says to them hold on. If you can talk with crowds and keep your
virtue or walk with kings nor lose the common touch. Think about that. Think about it. If
neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you. If all men count with you but none too much.
If you can fill the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run. Yours
is the earth and everything that's in it and which is more. You'll be a man. My son.
Read that. Read that to your family. Dads. Sons. Read that. It applies to women. Put
a woe in front of the man. It applies to women. It's all about being who you are. It's all
about fighting through adversity. Read it again and spend some time with it and look
at it and think about the course of events over the last twelve months. The previous
twelve months. Think about the things that we've been through as Americans. Think about
the things our president has been through as a candidate. Think about the things he pushed
through as a candidate. Think about the barbs and attacks. Think about the things that he
said and how they were twisted around and then read the passages from this poem. If
he's lived it in front of us. Now I'm not suggesting you be a fanboy for Trump and be
his apologist. I'm not suggesting that you stand in front of your family and tell them
how great the president is if they believe that other people, what other people are saying,
if they're indoctrinated by the CNNs and the MSNBCs and the ESPNs and the New York Times
and pretty much all the media. All I'm suggesting to you is on Thanksgiving just to be that
man or woman that you're here to be. Don't talk about any of that stuff. Show don't
tell. Show how you love everyone. Show that your table is made for everyone. Show that
you have more in common than you do that separates you. And over time, eventually somebody will
ask you what your thoughts are on a certain issue. How do you feel about this issue? How
do you feel about that issue? How do you feel about President Trump or candidate Trump?
And when they see that you've behaved as a man consistently, when they see that you
have shown and not told, you'll find they're going to listen to you and they'll listen
well. And you'll find that you'll have a better chance of maybe not red pilling everybody,
but certainly red pilling your immediate family, your kids, your nieces, your nephews, the
ones closest to you. They'll look at you like you have your act together because you do.
I want to talk about this Millie Weaver video. Millie was in the trenches. And boy, my hat
is literally off to Millie. I also want to talk about a president drinking the Fiji water
and why I think that was masterful. It's Matt Dubial filling in for Alex Jones. Read that
poem if, share it with your family.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health. Biotrue Selenium's
formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid
hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body. With inadequate thyroid
hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival
Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
America is an information based civil war. That's why now more than ever we've got a
hit the streets of America and let these globalists scum know we're not backing down from their
bullying. We're only intensifying our operations in the face of their wannabe dictatorship.
Being a conservative, a nationalist, a libertarian or simply a free speech advocate is truly
the counter culture. The real punk rock is being a patriot who's pro-America, pro-capitalism
and pro-freedom who at the same time is tolerant. Modern liberalism is a counter fit of Thomas
Geverson's classical liberalism. They are the anti-liberalists who defend free speech,
meet like-minded friends and promote freedom worldwide. We've got more than 60 original
designs of high quality t-shirts for men and women as well as more patriot apparel at infowarstore.com.
Be part of the second American Revolution at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com you are funding the revolution. I mean I cannot
say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com
and I want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones that's my dad with colloidal
silver and iodine as well infowarstore.com or triple-A-253-3139 and your purchase of
the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support. I am very proud to announce
the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic. We wanted to
come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven
to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body. Biome defense
is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic
strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function. Our researchers are
confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the
market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com
today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally. We've been testing this
formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public so please take advantage
of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show. Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex
Jones. We look a little different. It's Matt Dubio
filling in for Alex Jones. I am the big mouth here at WCKG in Chicago and I'm delighted
and thrilled to be sitting in for the fourth hour at infowars.com slash show. I can't
recommend strongly enough to you to go to infowarstore or infowarslife.com and get yourself
brain force 50% off, holiday special. It's my understanding that there is a fantabulous
34 plus maybe at least 34 hour super broadcast coming up on Monday, Cyber Monday. If I read
the tweets, I'm on Twitter too. I'm broadcasting from Chicago here where there are 24 casualties
in the month of November sadly and we're at 616 deaths so far in 2017. Over 700 car jackings
in Chicago in this year and they're in certain neighborhoods. You're safe if you're in downtown
Chicago. You're safe if you're in certain suburbs. You're safe if you're in the airport
areas and those communities. It's when you head to the west side and the south side where
the carnage is really taking place that there's a lot of problems. People know where to go
and where to stay out of. Unfortunately, the people that live there and the human beings
that are there every day are the ones that end up being caught in the crossfire. We're
working on spreading this message because the news does not cover these deaths when
they play the 10 o'clock news on channel 2, on channel 5, on channel 7, on channel 9.
We've never had more news channels than ever before and we've never had more news programs
that used to be they just had the 10 o'clock news and now they have like the 5 o'clock
news and the 6 o'clock news and they'll talk about some new BS unicorn Frappuccino that
Starbucks is putting out. They'll talk about, they'll show people waiting in line for the
new iPhone in downtown Chicago and they don't show the names and they don't say the names
and they don't show the faces of the people that are being slaughtered every day as it's
Las Vegas in slow motion every day here in Chicago. They don't talk about those people.
Somebody needs to and we're working on doing that in a bigger way. How do we do that here
and how can you do it? You hear people on InfoWars all the time. Share the links, share
the links, share the links. The other way is for you to support these local stations
that carry these shows. We, for instance, have not only are we carrying the Alex Jones
show here in Chicago but we're also carrying real news with David Knight mornings from
8 a.m. central to 11 a.m. central. It's a great show. It's a great alternative to Glenn
Beck and the other crap that the National Syndicators put out. We carry the War Room
with Owen Schreuer and sometimes Roger Stone when he's in and when he's, you know, whether
he's in or not and Owen and the War Room is another great alternative to the afternoon
programming that you are offered and force fed around the country where they're just
talking about the same crap, Mitch McConnell this and Paul Ryan that over and over again,
the same dopey four conservative talk show. It's really great. If you're a station manager,
you got to consider these shows. If you are a listener in those areas and you're listening
to the radio station carrying Alex Jones right now, send them an email. Send that radio
station an email and tell them that they should really take a look at real news and they should
really take a look at the War Room. We're doing it here in Chicago. Tell them WCKG is
doing it in market three and we're not just going to do it on a.m. 1530. We're building
an FM radio station and it isn't cheap, believe me. I could go broke building this FM radio
station and Alex talked about it a little bit earlier. We're building this FM 102.3 and right
now it just covers a little five mile radius in Elmhurst near the airport and it's eventually
very soon with your help going to be covering parts of the Chicago area where this murdering
is going on and we can help bring light, bring to light to the people that aren't hearing this on
the news. What is actually going on in their backyard? You can help us if you go to WCKG.com
slash support. The video that we had up there of Alex sharing why it's so important to support
local radio stations has been removed by Facebook or YouTube. We're not sure why but we're going
to replace it. But we could use your support because what happens is the advertisers get
pressured from the likes of Media Matters or the likes of other organizations and they leave
and they try and pressure these radio stations like mine into carrying other sports programming
or other network programming that isn't quite what is in line with what we're sharing. It doesn't
quite get the truth out the same way. So we need your help that comes in the form of donations
in form of support, sponsorships support, whatever you can do WCKG.com slash support.
I want to talk about this Millie Weaver video. Millie Weaver speaking of going into the areas
where you know it's dangerous, you know in Chicago we don't go to the south side where
people are getting capped. We don't go to the west side where people are getting capped.
Here Millie Weaver and I'm looking at it with you. You can watch it at infowars.com slash show.
I'm watching Millie Weaver literally going into the trenches here at an event in Texas
where Hillary Clinton was doing a book signing for I don't even know the name of her book.
It's getting to the point where I don't want to even promote it. I know that nobody's buying
the damn book anyway. She's got to give it away. But if you watch this video besides watching it
with me as I share what I witnessed, you're going to want to watch this video later on
tonight or when you have some time. And it really is the title is Clinton Zombies Invade Austin.
And that is the perfect title. I often refer to the masses as the zombie nation.
And the zombie nation is really scary. Back a while ago the CDC, the Center for Disease Control
even had this what to do in the case of a zombie apocalypse. And people laughed about it and they
went oh that's so cute. It's like it's related to the zombie TV shows and the zombie movies.
It's code you guys. They're not talking about the zombies in the TV shows. They're talking about
the zombies that have been indoctrinated and been converted into people that will turn on you.
Watch the zombies turn on Millie Weaver. Now I'm not saying these people were always zombies.
Some of them are wives and daughters and mothers. And somehow over time after they're smiling and
after they're just kind of engaging in conversation and maybe they were at a bake sale earlier,
they get in line at this Hillary Clinton event. And the zombies attack. There's zombies grabbing
Millie's microphone. There's zombies you can see. They don't quite shape shift. And this is where
people are going to go whoa, whoa. Doobie, you had me when you were talking about the if poem.
You had me at Thanksgiving. You had me at leading your family. But then you talked about shape
shifting. Whoa. Well, not every shape shifter is a literal shape shifter. Okay, watch these people.
Watch them shape shift from daughters and mothers and grandmas. Some of these grandmas pick their
kids up and they take them for the McDonald's Happy Meal after they pick the kid up from daycare.
And then they get in line at the Hillary event and they turn into zombie shape shifters and start
and start grabbing microphones from Millie Weaver. And here's one of the things I love about Millie.
I don't know Millie. I've never met Millie. I don't think, I mean, I've been to InfoWorst,
you know, the, the, the Texas Command Center a couple of times. I don't think Millie was there
back when I was there, but I don't know her. But I can, I've learned so much about her by watching
her. Just like I said, don't tell show. I'm watching Millie Weaver and she's showing. She's
showing big time. She's going through the zombies are attacking brains brains Millie brains Hillary
good Millie bad InfoWorst bad. I can't wait till they use that clip and use it against me later.
But the zombies are attacking and Millie Weaver is just being Millie. She is just
just herself smiling, maintaining her composure, staying assured in her, in her self awareness
that what she's doing is asking questions on public property. And man, oh man, do the zombies
attack reread that poem that I shared with you this if by Rudyard Kimpling. I don't know if
I'm pronouncing his name right. I maybe it's a woman that wrote it. I don't know if Rudyard is
a man or a woman. It doesn't matter because Millie exemplifies just like our president does just like
I see Alex just like I see Rob do just like I see Owen just like I see David Knight. These people
are exemplifying what is embodied in this poem and you can too. It's called if it's worth reading.
It's worth downloading. It's worth printing out. It's worth keeping and I want to share with you
what I witnessed our president doing in his press conference. The press conference last week,
I couldn't find on the internet until it already happened live from Chicago for Alex Jones. It's
Matt Dubiel. Vitamin mineral fusion. Visit m4slife.com to secure your chemistry. We have worked for
years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great tasting
multivitamin formula available. Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at m4slife.com is loaded with a
full month supply of essential vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of m4slife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield x2,
super metal vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard of
multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in vitamin
mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That means it's clean,
that means it's pure and rest secured. You're finding the tip of the spear in the info war.
That's m4slife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Refresh your breath with EmRex Essentials organic mouthwash. Our formula is made from
organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and provide a cleansing effect while adding
a pleasant refreshing taste. EmRex Essentials mouthwash is non-GMO certified organic made without
alcohol, chemicals or other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances or dyes. The pure
organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work well to help
tone gum and freshen your breath. This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula. You will
need to dilute one part mouthwash to 10 parts water. EmRex Essentials mouthwash is a great
addition to your daily brushing routine. It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive
gums and canker sores. Go organic today with EmRex Essentials. Visit infowarstore.com to
learn more. That's infowarstore.com. You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
