There's a lot of controversy around this network about Alex Jones, for example.
Alex Jones, the foray conspiracy theorist who is apparently...
Jones!
Skull! Russian Skull!
Until war comes to mind.
Reputation's amazing. I will not let you down. You will be very, very impressed, I hope.
We have been through a lot of hoaxes together in the years during the campaign, during the primaries, during the attempt to keep Trump from being inaugurated.
We've seen a lot of hoaxes, a lot of lies.
The new big hoax that is on CNN, Fox News, MSNBC, they're all making their move right now is that this is it. It's over for Trump.
Ladies and gentlemen, drum roll please.
Trump directed Michael Flynn as an incoming National Security Advisor to contact the Russians.
Dun dun dun.
Stocks fall sharply on report that Michael Flynn was directed by Trump to talk to the Russians. That's always been on record.
That's what a National Security Advisor does.
They stampeded Attorney General Sessions to recuse himself because he had three meetings with the Russian Ambassador in the year before when he was the head of a Senate committee.
Hello? He met 32 times with the Russian Ambassador that same year. Totally normal.
But again, they create this hype like, we know there's Russians there under the table, they're everywhere because they knew the Podestas and Hillary and the rest of them were up to their eyeballs and all this.
And so now here's their big gamble. Here's their big move. They're making it right now.
The stock market is recoiling in horror because if they even attempt this, which they're now doing, if they were successful, it'll cause a civil war.
Totally brazen. Totally illegal.
Everything that Mueller and Comey and the Clintons and the globalists have done, they're accusing Trump of.
And now they're running the hoax that Flynn has flipped and that Flynn says Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians, feels President has abandoned him, prepared to testify against Trump family, White House staff going to plead guilty to lying to the FBI.
What's that log in the place? Back in the 50s for the mafia, the same FBI told us the mafia didn't exist because they had the FBI director in compromising positions.
Then they came out and got laws passed so that if you lie to the FBI and they claim it's a lie, it's like they're God. They're the fourth branch of government.
They say it's a lie because they have the illegal surveillance transcripts of him talking to the Russian ambassador and it didn't go exactly like he remembered from their recording of it.
And so they go after Flynn and what's happening is they've got Flynn on Turkey. Flynn went and did some lobbying for the Turks. I've looked at it.
He didn't follow the proper paperwork, but you have like a year to do it. And so they could go after him for that. They've got him on Turkey.
You could technically nobody's ever been charged with it, but you could say, you know, that he could get some jail time for that.
So they've got him on Turkey and they got him over a barrel and he's a patriot and a good guy and Trump says it's a big mistake that he ever got stampeded into getting rid of him.
That was how this whole thing began. And Mueller's been going around finding somebody he can get in the crosshairs to then basically contradict the president to create a constitutional crisis.
So dictator Mueller can try to overturn the will of the people, the stock market, the recovery, everything else. And the media every time Trump said a G20 or anywhere, it just waves it.
They go, look! Look, he waved! And then he had the Russian ambassador to the White House. Trump met behind closed doors with the Russian ambassador.
And the aides in that meeting leaked the info that he patted him on the back and said, this whole Russian collusion thing's a load of bull.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic. It's Alex Jones.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
All of these are the very cutting edge, top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price. That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
And when you purchase it at m4store.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
50,000 unstoppable watts.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're broadcasting worldwide on this Wednesday, the 6th day of December 2017.
We're going to be here for the next four hours. This is the info war.
This is the demonized attack broadcast on radio and TV that the big telecoms, the big tech companies, the globalist, the EU, the corrupt Vatican, ISIS, the jihadis, the Democratic Party, the Republican Party establishment, all absolutely hate and all absolutely dread because we see through their propaganda.
We're aware of their global plan and are standing up against it. I intend to open the phones up early in the broadcast today. We're also going to be carrying coming up sometime in the next hour and a half.
The president's usually about 10 minutes late. His live statements that he is going to be making on moving the US embassy from Tel Aviv, Israel to Jerusalem in Israel.
And the media, mainstream media, the Republican Party to a great extent, the Democratic Party, especially the Arab states, are flipping out, threatening all this violence and pity partying and just going completely wild.
The London Guardian has the headline that it's going to plunge the world into fire and fury and all this destruction.
Why? Because the Muslims are so peaceful. Israel is a tiny country. It was founded by Jews, but 3,000 years ago by folks coming out of Egypt. Everybody knows the historical story and it's true.
And I'm not against the Muslims, but they've got 99% of the territory in the Middle East. They're always killing each other and Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt, none of those countries will take any of the Palestinians.
They don't want them. They won't take one of them. And most of them are just Arabs that have gone into the area and want to be in Israel.
And it's just like folks that want to get into the United States, but hate the United States. And I'm not saying that there hasn't been oppression of people in that war torn region, but it's kill or be killed.
And it's not like we're talking about shrinking violets here with many of the Palestinians who load their children up with bombs.
Now they aren't a rock and a hard place because they're stuck there in that area because the Arab states, many of them, filthy rich, will not take one of them.
So they have absolutely nothing to say that's legitimate in my view.
But it's a big cause celeb, not just with liberals, but with a lot of so-called conservatives to obsess over Israel, to hate Israel and to want to destroy Israel.
I get attacked that I'm not pro-Israel enough by the Jerusalem Post and Haritz and all the rest of this kind of liberal establishment garbage.
And then I also get attacked by the white supremacists and the Muslim groups and all the rest of it that I supposedly, you know, get my directions from Israel, though I've never been to Israel.
It's his asinine saying that, you know, I get my directives from the Russians or something.
But if you just look at what's going on, Israel is what, twice the size of like Dallas, Fort Worth, maybe?
I mean, it's this small little sliver of area and all of the Middle East uses it as an excuse to want to carry out terror, to want to attack other countries, to hate the United States.
And quite frankly, I'm sick of it.
And now the calculus has really changed over the last few years where the EU, the globalist towards Soros, openly want to foment war in the Middle East.
They want to overthrow Israel.
That's in the Soros documents that came out last year in WikiLeaks and others that Soros wants to topple Israel.
If you put the Muslims in there, they would be civil warring with each other instantly over who had control.
The Shiites and the Sunni have been killing each other for over a thousand years and it's not going to stop.
And you know what they do to holy sites?
They blow each other's holy sites up.
So, you let unfettered Islamic takeover happen in Jerusalem guarantee within one year, Dome of the Rock, all of it is going to get blown sky high.
Because that's especially what the Wahhabis do.
And Trump is trying to kill that whole program of destabilization in the Middle East.
He's trying to bring real stabilization, a new policy, the globalist and the Arabist and all the folks in the State Department that claim they're pro-Muslim.
They've actually just been using it as a destabilizing force in Africa, the Middle East, Asia, around the Red Crescent, around Russia's borders.
And now into Europe and the United States and flooding us with tens of millions of military aged men who then don't adopt our culture.
They tell us we've got to adopt their culture and the EU migration body and the rest of the globalist organizations admit that is the plan.
So, I was against the Iraq War.
I was against those other adventures.
They were meant to destabilize the Middle East, get rid of secular governments, get rid of governments put in by previous policies,
try to stabilize the Middle East and go with this mass destabilization program that's been declassified and documented.
And Wesley Clark talked about 10 years ago.
Trump is trying to kill that plan.
But part of recognizing these Arab states and leaving them alone is recognizing that Israel's there.
It's not going anywhere.
And that people need to accept that that little tiny area in the world is Israel.
Now, at the same time, does that mean I like all the leftist over in Israel and Haritz and Jerusalem Post lying about me every few weeks and putting out ridiculous crud?
No. Does that mean under everything Israel does? Absolutely not.
But at the same time, I can pragmatically just study the lay of the land and realize,
Soros and the globalist and the Rothschilds and others to a great extent have made the decision to ally themselves with the most radical forms of Islam because demographically they're taking over the world.
And the deal has been made to sell out Europe, sell out Russia, sell out Israel and sell out the United States.
They've even got massive intended Muslim influxes into places like over in the Pacific Ocean.
So it's just happening everywhere.
It is just absolutely unfolding into Australia and to New Zealand.
They've got huge influxes coming in because on average Muslims have six children and then they're taught,
You're going out. You're going to take over. This is part of a larger plan. This is part of a larger program.
And it's very, very frustrating to know that this fuse has been lit by the globalist and Trump is trying to defuse it.
And the media is turning around saying that by him keeping his promises that he somehow is selling other people out.
Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what's happening. I don't just sit here and as an apologist for President Trump and defend everything he says or does,
but if we simply move our embassy to Jerusalem and recognize that that's the capital of Israel,
that's not an excuse for the Muslims to blow more stuff up and shoot more rockets and kill more people and have more suicide bombs.
I'm done. Capitulation of the left is over. And Islam is publicly, nakedly, allied, especially Wahhabist Islam,
with the globalist, with the leftist, and with this larger operation.
And so that is why I personally am backing the president and what he's doing. Plus it's a campaign promise.
It's like some people said, Alex, I hear Trump's given up our national parks and monuments and giving it to rich people to mine on.
He's just reversing some of the monuments Obama grabbed to kick mines that were already off, off.
A little bit of feed coming in and there. So that is just some of the information, ladies and gentlemen,
that we're going to be breaking down and going over here. But what we know is this.
Trump is delivering what he said he would do. Trump is standing up for what he said he would do.
And anybody that argues with that or anybody that tries to deny that is lying to you.
Everybody knows what Trump said he was going to do during the campaign.
And it is extremely refreshing to see that happening and to see that unfolding.
And that's why I am so excited about what's happening is because it's a huge change to have leaders that actually do what they say they're going to do.
And it's starting to happen all over the world as humanity awakens.
But we're going to open the phones up at the bottom of the hour. I'll give the number out in the next segment to get your take.
If you agree, if you disagree, that's fine. We'll get you on air.
But we'll see if you can disagree without just making personal attacks. Just make your political point.
We'll be right back.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing. See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org. That's libertyoncall.org.
It's like having an electric power plant running secretly in your own home.
Right now, get a $5,000 solar generator for just $995 while supplies last.
Go to mysolarbackup.com to learn more.
That's mysolarbackup.com. GCN listeners use coupon code GCN at checkout for this special offer.
At mysolarbackup.com use coupon code GCN. EMP protection available at an additional charge.
In a highly customized blend, discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee.
And it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Buy the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee.
Available at infowarslife.com.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand-selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue, fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue, fluoride-free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption. It's Alex Jones.
So coming up in the next 40 minutes or so, the President is scheduled to give a speech on how he is planning to designate Jerusalem as where the U.S. Embassy will be based.
U.S. embassies all over the world have to brace for Islamic attack and it's supposedly Trump's fault for doing what he campaigned that he would do.
And stop playing these half-measures that we're going to turn Israel over to the Muslims.
It's just not going to happen.
And instead of going on with this fake Middle East peace process that just stalls the inevitable, just make it cut and dry and then have peace in the Middle East and have trade with all those countries and develop and work with them and end the destabilization of the Middle East, which the globalists have been involved in.
That is a very moral, upright, pragmatic position of the President.
Now that said, there's definitely going to be some fireworks that comes out of this and there's already been fireworks.
We've been told by Obama and by the Democrats and by the EU when Muslims rape people or kill people or bomb people or shoot people or run over them with cars.
Don't say it's Muslims because, oh, that puts a bad light on it and then gives attention to the extremists.
So let's just ignore the problem. And it's designed to bring in these massive numbers to balkanize and overtake the civilization.
And Trump existentially realizes that and is saying no to it. It's that simple.
U.S. military on high alert ahead of Trump's announcement to move U.S. embassy to Jerusalem.
Ergun calls Islamic summit next week on Jerusalem. That's right. He can grandstand while he massacres Kurds and massacres his own people and has coup d'etats and all these events.
He can sit there and sit on his high horse while he threatens to invade Europe with 50 million more Turks if they don't go ahead and open the border up to begin with.
So Ergun and all these folks can just stick it right in their little Islamic police state because it's a joke. They're frauds.
They run around engaging in atrocities thousands of times what the Israelis do.
But when the Israelis fire back at somebody shooting a missile at them, it's all over the news. War crime.
They're the biggest criminals on earth. Nobody's worse than the Israelis.
They don't care if North Korea is starving people and killing people. They don't care if Islamic groups are murdering millions.
They don't care if Boko Haram's bombing people every day. They don't care if hundreds of churches get blown up per country.
They don't care if women get put into sex slavery and priests get killed. That's not even in the news. It's the back of the paper, maybe.
Boy, let me tell you, every couple of years, the Israelis fire back. And again, I'm not a Israel file, I guess is the word.
If you love the French, you're a Francophile. If you love the Bretts, you're an Anglophile, I guess. If you love the Israelis, you're an Israel file, I guess is the word.
I mean, I'm not even on the side here. I'm just sitting here looking at Israel and just seeing online and the universities and the media just constantly bashing Israel, especially in the European media.
And then, oh, let's bring in 10 million military-aged men and have them rape women and kill people and blow things up and run over people with cars and they won't even call it Islamic.
It's just not fair. And you know what? If the Muslims want to blow stuff up and shoot people and run people over because we have an embassy in Jerusalem, that's their problem, not our problem.
It's like Trump tweets out videos of Muslims throwing homosexuals off buildings and shooting people unarmed and beating people to death.
And the media said, how dare you, you Islamophobe, the crime isn't killing people. The crime is talking about it.
So again, with Trump, it's all just a big illustration of someone with common sense saying, no to the madness, you've gone too far.
And it creates the moral courage in a lot of people that have been on the fence to say, yeah, that's how I feel too.
But I'll tell you, the leftist in Israel in particular, they're trying to have Netanyahu arrested because his wife had the government shift to their house for state dinners with foreign leaders.
Yeah, you heard me right. The Israeli government paid for dozens of meals over the years for state dinners at their house.
They claim that's that's embezzlement.
And then the very same leftist groups in Israel recycle all the bull and write articles constantly that I'm an anti-Semite and that I hate Israel.
But then they love George Soros because they sold out Soros. These are sick, sick, sick people as they face fraud charges for phone bills and dinners.
Boy, don't you wish the Clintons corruption was like that? Yeah, the Clintons had state dinners. The government paid for it. That's that's that's just done.
That's the law. Instead of billions from foreign governments to sell out our industry, to sell out our country, open our borders up and completely devastate the nation.
It's just it's just crazy if Netanyahu did something real or Netanyahu did something that that that that I thought was illegal, throw him in jail.
I don't care. I'm not involved in Israeli politics. It's just you read these articles is like his wife is being indicted because they had a government chef at the house.
And foreign leaders came to eat dinner. I'm like the prime minister had a chef at this house for state dinners. Really?
And that's what I'm sick of. It's like this whole Russiagate investigation of Trump. There's nothing there. It's all a fraud.
But Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, because again, it's the globalist that are the outside power that have been screwing our country over.
We're the Americans saying no, so they want to project on us what they are and say that we are the foreign power that we're the traders.
Oh, by the way, the GDP set to go up again from 3.3 to 3.7.
Little birds are now reporting in the next few weeks that preliminary numbers look like it's surging even faster.
And ahead of these tax cuts, they're talking about a 7.6 to a 10% growth rate in the United States.
You want to pay off your student loans? You want to get a higher paying job? You want a future?
I mean, when economies roar, folks, that's when there's prosperity.
That's when people get paid more. It's when a lot of big things happen.
There are going to be some problems, though, with inflation.
But would you rather have total stagnation and collapse?
And that's why Trump is doing a lot of things to turn the economy back on.
Now, coming up in the next segment, look at drudgerport.com.
They've got the Person of the Year Time magazine.
Magazine picks hashtag me too.
Yes, that's going to be women's identity now.
Men hit on them. Men talk to them.
Don't worry, it'll be like Japan where the men don't know the women anymore and there's just cultural total death.
And that's the plan with the rise of the robots.
And so, me too, the victimology goes into mega, mega, mega high gear,
and it's used as a smoke screen for the raping of men and women and children,
and the Satan worship, the occultism, and then they're recycling going after Trump with the Billy Bush stuff.
We told you that was coming three or four months ago with a whole Weinstein reboot.
We were proven right yet again.
Hey, Daniel Bremen, why new manna of storm foods?
We believe in freedom. America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead,
and we take this charge seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals.
Great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today. Call 888-590-7075.
888-590-7075.
Online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true, but did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties.
Call Life Benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000. That's 702-660-7000.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money
while you get high-quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose AutoShip before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip
because we hold back a surplus for AutoShip customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareShore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip,
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new AutoShip feature at InfoWareShore.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip.
Win, win, win at InfoWareShore.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first,
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from InfoWareShore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWareShore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
InfoWare's Life.com or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products stands with us,
stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back against us, so we need your support.
I'm so excited. The new product at InfoWareShore.com in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim,
filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate, because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have
to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at InfoWareShore.com and your purchase of the operation.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center and the heart of the Resistance.
The Alex Jones Show, because there is a war on for your mind.
Look at these headlines on InfoWareShore.com.
YouTube censors Polish government's video exposing catastrophic migrant invasion.
It is key for the globalist operation to invade us, to have an Islamic invasion of radical young men,
and then to cover it up. It is simply mind-blowing how intense all of this is going.
In the Soviet level or communist Chinese level censorship.
Meanwhile, Twitter allows death threats against FCC ahead of net neutrality vote.
The Internet is now just a weapon system of the globalist.
Meanwhile, it should have horns.
Internet's hilarious response to Hillary's Christmas tree angel, where she is depicted as an angel.
I had trouble even getting that out of my mouth. I mean, what a joke, ladies and gentlemen.
She looks like a demon, like a zombie, like a vampire. Doesn't she?
If you ever wanted to know what a demon looks like and acts like, ladies and gentlemen, it's Hillary Rodham Clinton.
I want to open the phones up specifically on Israel, on Trump, on the U.S. recognizing that Israel has a right to exist.
That's why our little allies in the Middle East, the Islamic countries, as the media portrays them, they're not our allies.
Most of them have been saying it's terrible to move your embassy to Jerusalem because they've been saying Israel doesn't have a right to be in Jerusalem,
and they want Israel out of Jerusalem, and they want to occupy Jerusalem.
And that's what the Muslims did hundreds and hundreds of years ago, is they came in and they occupied it.
They started an invasion into Jerusalem and then into southern Europe, eastern Europe.
They invaded all the way with their sheiks that were pirates going back over a thousand years ago, all the way down the eastern side of Africa,
and all the way out into what is Asia today, all the way down.
Most of those countries have large Muslim populations or are Muslim countries.
When you go to Indonesia and all those other places, there are mosques everywhere.
There are Muslims everywhere, and in every one of those countries, they're always busy attacking and killing and trying to take over the rest of the nation,
just like the Philippines.
You can just look at maps, type into a map.
World map, countries with large Muslim populations or world map, Muslim countries, and you look at it, you go, wow!
More than half of the Pacific oceans got Muslims running it, and they ran a slave trade.
You ever wondered why there are so many big black people in Pacific countries and Pacific islands who've intermarried with the local Asians and others?
Ever wondered why?
Because they had slave breeding and slave trades and did not consider blacks humans and brought them in though, but for warriors and bred them with the local Asian populations.
So again, I'm simply talking about a group, an organization, a political, religious philosophy that has sworn it's going to conquer the world and it invaded Europe.
See, the Western Empire of Rome fell in 410, and then it went to the east, what's Turkey today, to Constantinople, the head of the Byzantine Empire.
And that was what the Western culture was left.
And then the Muslims invaded it and murdered all the men above the age of about 12 and then put everybody else into slavery and then tore the crosses off the churches and turned them into mosques.
I mean, they conquered that area of central Europe, central Southern Europe.
And then they invaded all over, but you watch any TV show, are you tuned into the history channel? It says, the Crusades were a horrible period where the vicious Europeans invaded the peaceful loving Muslim nations and did bad things.
You open textbooks. I mean, it's like saying Martin Luther King was white. I mean, it is the most flagrant lies the planet has ever seen and they just teach it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again.
But again, if you go to all those Pacific Islands and put a map back up if you can, and folks can blow it up if you're watching on TV and read all the countries that have large Muslim populations or completely Muslim.
Light Green is to blow that up for me. I know it's Sunni and Shia. I know the true groups are Sunni and Shia. 79% are Sunni and about 19% are Shia and about 1% is Alawite or other subgroups.
I just can't actually read them out. But thanks. The point is, you can see the Light Green is one of the main Muslim derivations. And in the dark green, I think that's Shia because that's Iran. Yes, thank you.
So that's what's going on here, ladies and gentlemen. That's what's happening. And that's the reality.
And so you have to understand that much of the world's been taken over by this and Europe has made the deal. By the way, do you see they're on the map Albania?
The Muslims took Greece for what, 500 years? The Greeks used to be blonde-haired blue-eyed. They took Greece for about 500 years, but some of the Greeks head out in the hills, so they were able to kick them out finally, but just prior to World War II.
And then, if you look at Albania, that's the area the Muslims stayed. And they had their big pirate ships that kidnapped men, women, and children. That was their main business with slaves.
And notice, just since the mid-1990s, Clinton and the Globalists helped, and they've now been able to take areas of Macedonia and areas of Serbia.
Serbia is the number one battleground in the Crusades where they held off more than 100 massive invasions, and reportedly, you look at history books, more than a million Serbs over those times died fighting Muslims.
Well, guess what? NATO came in repeatedly in the 1990s, bombed all of Serbia, bombed Belgrade their capital, and bombed Pristina and turned it over to the Muslims.
And now, they have successfully, in almost all areas of Kosovo, that's southern Serbia, killed or driven out all of the Christians, and there's zero media coverage of that, because that's how they want it.
So, you see that big Muslim area? That's the invasion route.
And then, when they started the war with the Serbs and the Serbs fought back, our media said that the Serbs were the bad guys and all deserved to die, and the UN came in with the United States and with NATO and helped bomb the country so they could take over.
So, if you want to know what's going on in Israel with George Soros and the rest of it, he wants to overthrow Israel and do the same thing.
I said, see, that's an area that's not green, and we've got to turn that green immediately and then drive every Jew into the ocean and murder and kill them, according to Islam.
Now, the Jerusalem Post will probably take that quote and say that I just said that because I don't want to do that. See, that's how it works in the Jerusalem Post and other publications.
This total deception, the folks in Israel in the dark not knowing what's going on, say people that don't want to kill all the Jews are Nazis.
That's how this works. If you're George Soros, an actual Nazi collaborator.
So, we'll be right back on the other side, ladies and gentlemen. Trump's speech is coming up. I'm going to give the number up as well, or give the number out.
It's 877-789. Alex, 877-789. Alex, stay with us. We're talking about Israel and global Islamic jihad.
Profoundly once said many years ago that if fascism ever comes to America, it'll come in the name of liberalism.
I'm a nasty woman.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Infowars Life. Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from a digestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high-meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by Infowars Life.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long-time listener of Infowars, and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic,
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the Infowars.
It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me, but it says Won't Tread on Me, and it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake.
And then it's got the American flag, Infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning t-shirt.
Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign, and then Infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at InfowarsTour.com.
Real quickly, I want to remind you of some of the sales that we have at InfowarsTour.com.
We have DNA Force now, 33% off, and that is a big savings.
That is one of our premier products that we sell at Infowars.
It's made-one of the key ingredients is BiopQQ.
Very expensive to produce, very expensive to-very difficult to get to.
That is now 33% off, big savings at InfowarsTour.com.
The essence is that it helps to keep your telomeres from being shortened.
And that's a key thing in terms of natural death, in terms of life expectancy.
I take DNA Force every day, and it's 33% off right now at InfowarsTour.
Of course, we are live for 10 hours every weekday starting with David Knight in the morning
all the way through the conclusion of the war room with the Alex Jones show sandwiched in between there
4 hours of it, and it's all possible because of you supporting us at InfowarsTour.com.
The Prostaguard formula does just that with this mixture of plant-based nutrients
and antioxidants that help give your body total support.
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols, zinc, vitamin D3, selenium, and copper.
Prostaguard is something that the men on the Infowars crew take every day,
and from our research, it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen
in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostaguard on your side today exclusively at InfowarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Here's my mother f***ing-ass you bitch punk f***ing sucker.
Pointing what appears to be a water gun, the image of President Donald Trump projected on a white boy,
our teacher, Pale Modi, has not been seen by countless viewers across the internet.
It's an actor dressed to look just like President Donald Trump as he's assassinated on stage.
Pictures and video depicting comedian Cathy Griffin holding the bloody, decapitated head of President Trump
are no joking matter for the Secret Service.
Something that has inspired the violence has come from the mainstream of the Democratic Party.
Involved in the coup, an active attempt to start a bloody, civil war.
I'm your host Alex Jones. Thank you for joining us. Again, early in the next hour, President Trump is scheduled to give a
speech, a statement and a press conference on the announcement to recognize Israel.
We say we officially recognize Israel since it was established in 1947 and then later officially recognized by the U.S.
But if we don't have a embassy in their real capital, then it's all just a joke.
And it's time to stop giving into the bullying of the Islamists that every country they take over, like Albania,
they don't let you be a Christian in it, they kill you or drive you out.
See, they're not tolerant.
They'd be like saying, let's go to New Guinea and ship 100 headhunters back to our neighborhood.
And they go, oh, it's just their culture to headhunt. Let's let them do it.
Now, I've been speaking a lot about these issues.
Trump declared Jerusalem, capital Israel, White House officials.
Again, and the media keeps saying, when is he going to declare it? When is he going to declare it?
He already declared in the campaign he was going to do it.
He said two days ago, sometime the next six months, we're going to move it. And he's going to officially announce it today.
So there's the answer. I've seen a lot of confusion out there. Did he do it or didn't he do it?
It's symbolic, ladies and gentlemen.
And I, quite frankly, am sick and tired of just the Israel obsession.
It's like the racism obsession in this country.
When you look at actual statistics, we're one of the openness and freest countries in the world for people to be upwardly mobile.
But you go to a college, you get indoctrinated, not on that, but on how bad the country is.
Because again, the social engineers want to bring the nation down. It's that simple.
Ergun is running around the Middle East trying to stir up trouble and trying to parlay the Islamic threat into Europe to make Europe sue for peace,
to capitulate and accept completely open borders.
He says, if you don't accept completely open borders with Turkey, I'll flood you. You already did.
Albania wasn't Muslim just a few hundred years ago. Now it is. Now part of Serbia is.
What kind of chemicals taking over?
If there was a Christian cult that was killing people and taking over, I'd be against it or a agnostic cult.
I mean, I want a reformation of Islam. I don't want to obsess over Islam all day.
I was against those wars that we previously had because I knew it was actually there to stir it up, part of globalism.
But now the deal's been made and Europe's been opened and the Islamists are moving forward in their worldwide jihad.
And our response is being called a crusade when all it is is defensive.
I want to go to Dr. Beth, a caller from Washington, went to Israel last year, saw Israel and Palestinians interacting.
Again, we don't screen your calls. I don't know what Dr. Beth's view is.
We're about to find out what Dr. Beth's take was.
And again, you're welcome to call in. It's 877-789-2539 on this subject.
I got a bunch of other news. Obviously, I'm going to be getting into as well.
We've got a big avalanche taking place. More senators, more Democrats turning against Al Franken.
He's about to be out the door like Mr. John Conyers.
I'm going to play the Billy Bush clip where he suddenly resurfaces, recycled to go after Trump again.
And they said, well, there's so much moral authority now that all these other folks have stepped down from mere allegations.
It's time for Trump to do the same. Clearly, that was easy to call. And that is exactly what happened.
So that's coming up as well. Billy Bush on Trump, access Hollywood tape. Of course he said it.
But right now, Dr. Beth in Washington, you're on the air. Go ahead.
Hi, Alex. Hi, welcome.
First call of the day on my 60th birthday. Well, happy birthday.
Thank you, sir. Thank you. Yes, I went to Israel last year and was able to visit Jerusalem and other areas and also Jordan, which was really interesting.
But while I was in Israel, I have never felt safer. I was so impressed with the way everyone got along.
Let me say everyone. It was very eclectic. I mean, we went to many sites where there were both Palestinians, Israelis,
and they just were all minding their own business and living their lives and was able to go to the Friends of Zion Museum
and literally fell in love with the Jewish state and the people when I was there.
Well, most people that have gone have told me that, that it's delightful and that, again, most of the Muslims actually do just want to live and have jobs and be prosperous.
But there are political Islamists who are in charge outside of Israel who want to topple Israel and are using the ongoing beef as a pretext.
And there are issues on both sides clearly. It's just that now you've got Soros and the big money backing not just the takedown of Israel,
but the entire Western world and I have chosen sides. I'm not going to be part of it.
Well, what's interesting about you choosing sides and when I first started listening to you, I did some research.
And what impressed me the most is that you have not changed. I watched some of your publications and videos from years ago,
and that impressed me the most is that you've not ever vacillated. And then coming back, I just started listening at the beginning of,
right in the middle of the election last year, like October, September, October-ish, and then after I came back from Israel, I was even more impressed.
But I wanted to give you a quick story that was really impressed me about Jordan. We went over to Jordan.
And first of all, I never felt as unsafe, at least in the areas where we were.
And probably because we were at the border, we were told that if we brought out, there were people that picked up Israeli, you know,
Jewish paraphernalia at the start of David, and we were searched until do not under any circumstances bring any of these artifacts into Jordan,
or you will be in danger. I won't use exact wording.
Well, exactly. You want to buy like some type of Jewish symbol or some ancient tablet, a copy of a tablet, or some type of little knick-knack memento,
like you do anywhere. You go to the Grand Canyon, you go to Germany, you know, buy a German Mirstein. Doesn't mean you're a German.
It's the same thing. Exactly. In fact, on airplanes, at checkpoints, you name it, the Islamists will go through everything you've got.
And if you just look like you might be Jewish, or if you get caught with a Jewish passport, you're dead. And that's what I'm saying.
That happened to me. I mean, we were told the same thing. That is obviously correct.
I mean, yeah, these countries aren't tolerant of anybody but Islamists. That's what I'm saying. They keep telling us to be tolerant.
They're not tolerant. It's got to be a two-way street.
Well, it should be, but it is not. But I did see it in Israel, and there's the paradox.
Well, that's because that's Palestinians and Muslims who've been there for a long time and who just want to be successful and live in peace. Absolutely.
Yep. Yep. Great. Well, it's a birthday present to me.
Well, it's a birthday present having you call for everybody, but of course, you know what that is. It's called vetting.
I mean, if somebody says, I'm part of the PLO or I'm part of Hamas or I'm part of this and I want to blow up and kill Jews, then do you want that?
I mean, you always see the case where they bring in more Palestinians and then somebody comes over to be a mover at somebody's house and then stabs the whole family to death.
And again, I'm not lionizing Israel. I'm not saying the Jews are perfect, but the Jews are a diverse group of people.
A lot of them are leftist Hollywood people that hate my guts and say I'm an anti-Semite because I'm not an anti-Semite.
And they're self-loathing Jews that get off on cuckolding Israel and get off on thinking about vandalizing Israel and get off.
I mean, why do you think so many Jews are leftist and hate Israel like George Soros? Why?
You tell me. I don't know. I was too busy listening to be thinking. Go ahead, Blake.
No, no, I hear you. God bless you, Dr. Beth. I'm glad you told your story of what you saw. That's what I've read. That's what I've seen.
I've thought about going to Israel just to see it. I like to go to someplace like Egypt, too.
I like to go to Russia sometime, but I mean, I just know it'll be, you're a Russian agent. You're an Israeli agent.
This is just the total dark-age garbage where, you know, if you don't just hate a group entirely, you must be with them.
Stay with us, second hour coming up.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
For starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all-new, supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called Black Pepper Fruit Extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side. You're listening to Alex Jones.
Alright, we're waiting for Trump to make his statements on moving the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which just officially recognizes Israel.
I mean, we say we officially do, but that's not the case.
I'm open to the phones of people that agree, disagree with this, and I know that people that are going to disagree are going to make personal attacks on me and claim I work for the Israelis.
That is the consummate, perennial, ongoing thing that's said with no proof, no evidence, which is crazy because I am against the Islamic invasion of the world that's going on.
And so let's just say, get rid of Israel. What about Serbia? Get rid of them too, like I work for the Serbs. I just don't get how there's this right wing thing particularly on the fringe of the right wing that just hates Israel and then just ascribes to it magical powers, magical powers.
My ex-wife's, what grandfather was Jewish, and so then I'm Jewish supposedly, and all this other crazy stuff, and so I've experienced the insanity too, where magical powers are like beyond tooth fairy, beyond leprechauns, and then everyone's really secretly a Jew, you see,
and anyone successful has, again, has been put in power by the Jews, and it's just, it's crazy. Meanwhile, the leftist Jews are trying to arrest Netanyahu and turn the country over to the Muslims.
I mean, it's way more diverse than that, just like they're Sunni and Shiite with the Muslims, it's just a mess. Do you think Trump's right doing this?
Some folks will argue it's not in our national interest. They'll say that, you know, Israel's separate from the US, which it certainly is, and I don't like some of the Israel first lobby in the US trying to manipulate our government.
I've been critical of that, so I've been called an anti-Semite, but I'm against the Chinese or the Russians or the Brits or anybody else manipulating our policy. I want Americans doing that, and Trump's bringing power back to America.
But Israel has the same enemies we have, and so Trump's falling through on his promise, and the American people elected Trump, so that's where it stands.
Let's go ahead and go to Chris in Florida. Go ahead, you're on the air.
Hey, Alex. Thanks for having me. Big fan of the show, by the products.
Thank you.
You say, well, first of all, I promise I won't call you an Israeli agent if you don't accuse me of being an Israeli hater for asking this question.
Okay, go ahead.
Well, first, I don't see how this move is in the United States' best interest. I haven't heard you touch on that.
I just explained, it's time to stop rolling over to radical Islam and doing whatever it says and appeasing it. All that makes them do is attack more.
Okay, well, we give them billions of dollars a year. We give them a lot of, you know, aid, military equipment. You say that we have the same enemies.
I don't see them.
Well, I'll say this. I agree with Rand Paul, and I'll hold you over if need be, because I'm going to be able to make your points.
Point by point, I want to get rid of a lot of the foreign aid, including a lot of the aid to Israel, because I do think it just stirs things up and continues to cause problems.
So I agree with Rand Paul about that.
Okay.
Well, we're in agreement then on that. I mean, ISIS, they really haven't helped us at all in our fight against ISIS.
Well, contrary to that, Israel, to a certain extent, worked with Obama in the policy of covertly backing ISIS against the Syrians, and so now they've backed off that because Trump has changed the policy.
Right. Well, I hope you're right. I hope they have backed off. I mean, I see where they bombed. I don't know. I don't know. Some Iranian base in Syria or something.
Well, yeah, because the Iranians are starting to renege on their deal to leave once we had the peace deal.
All right. Thanks, pal. Thanks for picking my call.
Well, hold on. I mean, if you've got more points, I want to hear them. You're bringing up cogent, real things to debate here. I mean, did you make all your points?
No, I can speak.
I will come back, but you have a couple more minutes, Chris, because I really want to hear somebody who really legitimately disagrees. I want to hear from you.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Yeah. Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a longtime listener of Enforced, and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic, and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the Enforced.
It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me, and it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and an infowars.com on the back. That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at infowarsstore.com.
And it's time for humanity to stand up in the info war and say, I don't know what's gonna happen at the end of this, but you want to fight, you better believe, you got one!
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
All right, anytime now, the president is set to come out and make a statement or statements and then take questions from the press about why he's made the decision and is about to make the announcement officially to move the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv, Israel to Jerusalem, Israel.
Palestinians are saying that is not Israel. So this is officially not just in word, but indeed recognizing Israel. And I see one caller has a comment there that I want to basically say that goes what I believe.
And that's that Trump is standing up the caliphate by making this move.
I mean, you can type in Muslim countries in the world and put up a world map we showed earlier. And in the last 1400 years, it's taken over half the planet and it doesn't let you live in those countries.
It doesn't let you live. It doesn't let you live. It doesn't let you be a Buddhist or a Christian or an atheist or gay or whatever. It doesn't let you do that.
Do you understand that? So that's what I'm saying. That's why I have an issue. That's why I'm upset.
And Trump said he was going to do this during the campaign, so he's doing it. I can see both sides of the debate. It's going to stir up the Muslims. Well, they're already stirred up.
I mean, hell, will the Muslims give back Kosovo, one-third of Serbia, that our government helped them take? Oh, no, I'm sorry, because there's a globalist move to take over other countries using Muslims, who they'll then put a dictator in charge that the globalists work with.
The globalists want dictators and authoritarianism, and they want Islam in charge. The president's now speaking. Here he is.
With open eyes and very fresh thinking, we cannot solve our problems by making the same failed assumptions and repeating the same failed strategies of the past.
All challenges demand new approaches.
My announcement today marks the beginning of a new approach to conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. In 1995, Congress adopted the Jerusalem Embassy Act, urging the federal government to relocate the American embassy to Jerusalem
and to recognize that that city, and so importantly, is Israel's capital. This act passed Congress by an overwhelming bipartisan majority and was reaffirmed by a unanimous vote of the Senate only six months ago.
Yet for over 20 years, every previous American president has exercised the law's waiver, refusing to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, or to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital city.
Presidents issued these waivers under the belief that delaying the recognition of Jerusalem would advance the cause of peace. Some say they lacked courage, but they made their best judgments based on facts as they understood them at the time.
Nevertheless, the record is in. After more than two decades of waivers, we are no closer to a lasting peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians. It would be folly to assume that repeating the exact same formula would now produce a different or better result.
Therefore, I have determined that it is time to officially recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
While previous presidents have made this a major campaign promise, they failed to deliver. Today, I am delivering. I've judged this course of action to be in the best interests of the United States of America and the pursuit of peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
This is a long overdue step to advance the peace process and to work towards a lasting agreement. Israel is a sovereign nation with the right, like every other sovereign nation, to determine its own capital.
Acknowledging this is a fact is a necessary condition for achieving peace. It was 70 years ago that the United States under President Truman recognized the state of Israel.
Ever since then, Israel has made its capital in the city of Jerusalem, the capital the Jewish people established in ancient times.
Today, Jerusalem is the seat of the modern Israeli government. It is the home of the Israeli parliament, the Knesset, as well as the Israeli Supreme Court.
It is the location of the official residence of the prime minister and the president. It is the headquarters of many government ministries.
For decades, visiting American presidents, secretaries of state and military leaders have met their Israeli counterparts in Jerusalem, as I did on my trip to Israel earlier this year.
Jerusalem is not just the heart of three great religions, but it is now also the heart of one of the most successful democracies in the world.
Over the past seven decades, the Israeli people have built a country where Jews, Muslims and Christians and people of all faiths are free to live and worship according to their conscience and according to their beliefs.
Jerusalem is today and must remain a place where Jews pray at the Western Wall, where Christians walk the stations of the cross, and where Muslims worship at Al-Aqsa Mosque.
However, through all of these years, presidents representing the United States have declined to officially recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
In fact, we have declined to acknowledge any Israeli capital at all, but today we finally acknowledge the obvious that Jerusalem is Israel's capital.
This is nothing more or less than a recognition of reality. It is also the right thing to do.
It is something that has to be done. That is why, consistent with the Jerusalem Embassy Act, I am also directing the State Department to begin preparation to move the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
This will immediately begin the process of hiring architects, engineers and planners so that a new embassy, when completed, will be a magnificent tribute to peace.
In making these announcements, I also want to make one point very clear.
This decision is not intended in any way to reflect a departure from our strong commitment to facilitate a lasting peace agreement.
We want an agreement that is a great deal for the Israelis and a great deal for the Palestinians.
Let's stop right there. This is the reality. It is Israel's capital. We are not there. Other governments are there.
We play this game and it has not gotten any negotiations for peace. It makes us look like idiots. It makes us look weak.
We are not going to abandon Israel and let them blow it up.
It is not happening. They have nuclear weapons. Just stop.
Trump is not letting the globalists have the ongoing Islamists' garbage and the stirring it up.
He wants to stabilize all those countries. He wants peace.
We can have it now, just like we can have an economy, because the globalists were causing war by design.
The globalists were causing depression by design. That is their program and Trump is, pragmatically, killing it.
The Machiavellian stuff, folks, is ending.
Chris, Mike, Josh, Frank, John, Harvey, your calls are all coming up, infowars.com.
Get your very own conceivable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing only at katiearmor.com.
877-886-3653
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for some unique holiday gift ideas.
That's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products for the archer, hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family.
All through January, use the promo code HOLIDAY to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada.
From all of us at Slingbow Industries, have a safe, joyous and peaceful holiday season.
Our collection today in time for Christmas delivery at trumpdollar.us.
That's trumpdollar.us.
From over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info warm.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Got some vintage Metallica bringing us in.
Well, President Trump just recognized his real official thesis, what happened, not just move the embassy.
And Ergun, the dictator of Turkey, he's at state of his elections, is promising hell on earth.
Well you're already hammering Europe with Islamic invasion, bro.
It's not like capitulating to you has gotten us anywhere.
In fact, you've just gotten our politicians and people to sell out to you.
And that's basically what this comes down to, ladies and gentlemen.
Doesn't mean Israel's perfect.
Doesn't mean I support Israel first groups, not just getting Israel support in the U.S.
but also manipulating our internal politics.
It's been documented, it's been kind of a taboo subject or sacred cow.
And if you criticize Israel anyway, the media would kind of thump you in the nose.
But then you look at the globalists and the Islamists, they're the new game in town.
They're the new boss.
You know, move aside Israel.
And I'm just telling you, I don't want to blow Israel up and push all the Jews into the ocean.
And Israel's waking up to Soros and waking up to the globalists and waking up to what's happening.
It's a new day.
That's my view.
We're going to go to Mike and others here in a second.
But finishing up with Chris had some other points.
I went to him earlier, but we got up against a break.
And then President Trump spoke, so I'm going back to him briefly to,
you just heard the president's statement.
What do you think?
Yeah, listen, I voted for Trump.
I'm standing with Trump.
I'm not a one issue guy.
He did say he was going to do this during the campaign.
I had reservations about it.
I voted for him anyway.
I trust that this is going to work out.
Okay.
I hope so.
Definitely don't want the Jews to be pushed into the ocean, although I'm kind of being pushed into the ocean.
And, you know, I kind of voted for him because I thought maybe he focused more on that, but.
Well, I mean, sir, he's securing the border more and more.
The economy's starting to come back.
They're trying to kill him.
They got CIA deputy directors on TV saying they're going to kill him.
I had the Secret Service call me yesterday, but it wasn't a secret meeting.
But they want to come here and it's its total Twilight Zone and want me to brief them on all the data we've collated on who's setting up a plan to kill the president.
And so I'm going to develop that plan and video clips, articles, all of it.
And I'm also going to present the plan here.
But Secret Service didn't care if I kept it secret.
They said that's fine.
They were directed by the Secret Service in D.C. to make contact and they want to see our analysis of this.
Well, I mean, Phil Mudd's on TV saying they're going to kill the president and he's the former deputy director of the CIA.
And you've got Clapper, the former head of the CIA, and Brennan saying Trump will be gone this year extrajudicially.
And then the Secret Service guy's like, no, we know about that.
Yes, yes.
Well, do you know about a specific how they're going to do it?
And I said, no, but we should meet about it.
So that's how crazy all of this has gotten.
God bless you.
I appreciate your call.
I mean, Trump's the real deal.
Isn't it refreshing that all these other presidents said they do this?
Whether you agree with him or not, he said he'd do it and then he just did it.
I mean, say what you want about Trump.
He's doing what he said.
He said he was going to take those monuments that Obama designated.
Those aren't monuments for you, all those new monuments.
They had mines and stuff on them in Utah and other areas and they shut them down.
That's why we don't have any industry.
We've been shut down the last lead mine in the U.S. closed four years ago.
We had to buy our lead from China.
They shut down our gold mines, everything.
90% of some of those western states are federal and Obama grabbed more.
And Trump said, no, you're not doing that.
People go, well, he's taking our public lands.
It's not yours.
But again, he said he was going to do it and I agree with it.
I say, turn it back to the states and put it up for bid of citizens at low prices.
And that's what gets the economy going.
Sell the citizens key parcels of land.
The big beautiful mountains and stuff that aren't accessible and that are good for parks.
Keep those.
But don't just sit there and turn it over to the feds to take it out of use.
So they're Chinese holdings, double in value like the Utah cold deals.
Excuse me.
I'm ranting.
I said I'd go to your calls.
I'm a bad person.
Why can Arizona are on the air worldwide?
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save
America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force,
Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex.
Thank you.
I use the bio true selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big, normal
toothpaste bands.
The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the Infowars Life products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
As well as I said to the state of Israel right now and what President Trump did what he
did today.
I've been watching for a long time, and it's your fault, Alex Jones.
Thank you for making me become aware as an individual.
And I was watching as a young man in the 90s wondering why the U.S. government was bombing
the crap out of Serbia and stuff like that.
I couldn't understand it.
As I went into more research and went above the mainstream media, found out, hey, I don't
think we're getting the real story.
Then I get after 9-11, I did more research going, this doesn't make sense.
And then I find out about the blind chic.
I go, who is this guy?
I do some more research there and discover really the intensity of the caliphate.
And what a lot of people don't understand is that the Amadea caliphate is going on right
now.
And in 2018, it'll be 100 years of that caliphate running.
And for those that don't know, this is basically a giant global Islamic invasion.
And it's their stated goal to do it.
And it's being taught.
And then we're supposed to just sit here like idiots.
And then even back the Islamic takeover of areas that weren't radical, like Libya, like
Egypt, like places that weren't Muslim, like Serbia.
The globalists are backing an Islamic invasion and Trump is like a record skipping or two
cars running into each other in a big explosion.
He is saying no.
And that's one of the reasons that I believe that us patriots in America elected this man.
You know, a lot of people don't know that the city of New York City owes a lot of debt
and gratitude to Mr. Trump.
I was a fan of Mr. Trump as a real estate mogul when I first read Art of the Deal.
And then years later, when the guy comes out of a cush life, who doesn't have to do this
and stood up for America and said, let me be your guy.
He is our guy and he is producing.
And yet we still will always as the patriots here, we are just the other day, a long time
friend of mine, because I'm a Trump backer, called me a sexist or racist and a bigot.
And I said, you got to stop with this.
You're an educated person, but the mainstream media is turning you into a zombie and they
don't want to hear it.
And what we really need to encourage amongst ourselves is quick calling each other names
and let's have educated discussions.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can
take our country back.
Thanks Alex.
Thank you brother.
Keep on brother with the UFO Wars and thank you so much because what you did in turn was
out here in Arizona.
We now have a free speech media thing going as patriotic pit bull news network.
We show up at city council meetings.
We're keeping it up brother.
We're out of time.
But I've got a former member of the EU parliament who's an expert on globalism popping in.
Then I'm going to go back to your calls.
I promise Carlos and Harry and John and Frank and Josh and Nick and everybody else will
be right back on the other side.
Stay with us.
Hello Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother?
Get VirtualShield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30 day trial.
VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Excuse me sir.
Could you please take a picture of my family and me with my cell phone?
Sure Mrs. Anderson.
Smile for the camera.
Too bad hackers never get proper permission to access your cell phone or computer camera.
Anyone is or could be susceptible to illegal spying.
That's why VirtualShield.com has developed Identisafed.
A new security software that blocks camera and microphone access from unwanted spies.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30 day trial.
VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
VirtualShield.com.
Take action now before we sell out.
Top scientists and researchers agree.
We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply
that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well for starters don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new supercharged Brainforce Plus
and feel the rush without the crash.
Brainforce Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called Black Pepper Fruit Extract
that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brainforce Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as Valerian Root Extract, L-Tryptophan, Lemon Balm Leaf Extract and Melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness
but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
How's the show?
Engine.
Radio has changed our lives and has to be changed our lives.
Radio has changed our lives and has to be changed our lives.
You found it. The tip of the spear.
It is the Alex Jones Show.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome back.
Let me tell you what you want about President Trump,
but he has been delivering on his promises.
He has been bringing the economy back.
He has now officially recognized Israel.
That's what this really was and pointed out
that it hasn't helped the peace process.
That for decades we've not followed U.S. law
designating Jerusalem as the site of the U.S. Embassy.
And he just said we're recognizing reality here.
We want to broker a peace deal, but no more games.
This is for real.
And our own media and others are piling on
saying it's going to be the end of the world.
Blood in the streets and Ergun,
the basic dictator of Turkey, has staged elections.
He's trying to threaten Europe with more Islamic invasion
if they don't buckle to his demands.
It's crazy.
Now, Janice Atkinson is amazing.
Some say she could be the next Margaret Thatcher
over there in the U.K.
She was elected to the European Parliament in 2014
and is still there to secure a referendum
for Britain's membership of the EU for 20 years.
She's campaigned to leave the undemocratic system
because, again, the EU itself is a bureaucracy
that has a parliament, but it's only ceremonial.
And she points out it's expensive and unaccountable.
On the 23rd of June, 2016, she succeeded.
She represents the southeast of England,
along with Nigel Farage.
And I'm not going to go over her whole bio,
but it's janiceatkinson.co.uk.
And we're really excited to have her joining us.
Pardon me?
Oh, okay.
Well, that was a time warp for me
because I thought that we moved her up to that.
So she'll be coming on.
Well, that's a good plug for the fact
that that's going to be coming up.
And that gets me time to go back to your phone calls.
What happens is there's so many articles, so much news,
so many callers, so many things.
They kind of whisper stuff in my ear
because I'd asked them to move her back.
I didn't know we were moving her back then,
and I just lost that in the translation.
But that's the good part about a show like this.
Nobody else does it.
Radio and TV fused together live.
No teleprompters.
Nobody telling me what to say.
Nobody telling me what to do.
So I'm going to write that down right here
in my little book that she's coming on at 1.30 today.
And now we know that.
Okay, these have been really, really interesting phone calls
that we have been taking.
And I want to go to Carlos and Harry and John and Josh
and Nick and many, many others that are patiently holding
the toll-free number to join us on Trump's decision
on what he's done.
We only played the first half of what he had to say live.
I'm going to be playing in the next segment more of it
and some of the highlights.
But we're going to be going to your calls 877-789-2539.
Quite frankly, I'm sick of the obsession with Israel.
And people know of it on there 22 years.
A lot of people have been listening that long
that I was not an enemy of Israel.
But at the same time, I didn't like some of the leftist policies
in Israel with the Israel first folks in the U.S. bleeding over.
And now it's come out that Soros wants to overthrow Israel
in the WikiLeaks.
That's kind of made some people wake up in Israel.
But I don't hate Israel.
Just like I don't hate Germany or France or England.
It's just not my country.
But it's faced with Islamic attack
and they're trying to overthrow it.
And you can certainly say the Jews have real connections
to Jerusalem there.
And there's not been a real peace deal coming out of this.
So I think what Trump's doing is very, very pragmatic.
Quite frankly, I don't think it's as important
as getting the economy going or securing our sovereignty.
But getting rid of Israel is a globalist program.
And the leftist pope that says Europe shouldn't be for Christians
and all the rest of it, he's outraged.
And the Islamist Ergun is outraged in being threatening.
So I say good riddance to the globalist pope,
who's a false pope, and to Ergun and everybody else.
Listen, we get it.
You keep threatening. You keep thugging.
You keep selling out to globalism.
We're not part of it.
We wish the Middle East peace.
But it's the Muslims killing the Muslims nine times out of ten.
And that's where I stand on this.
Overall, it's Trump, even if we disagree with Trump,
it's Trump keeping his promises.
And how refreshing is that?
Okay, somebody was here saying I'm a shill.
Mr. Harry says, using the Muslim vids on Twitter
to preface today's news.
Let's talk about that.
The most believes there has been a concession for embassy move.
Josh says historic relevance of move of embassy.
Nick says Saudi-Israel connection.
I want to hear all these callers takes.
But there was one guy up there.
He hung up.
I was going to him next.
I said I was in Israeli shill.
It's like this magic term.
Like, well, to them, it's like saying you're a child molester or something.
I believe in what I believe.
I promote what I want to promote because I don't want war with Russia.
It doesn't mean I'm a Russian shill.
Or because I'm not anti-Israel doesn't mean I'm getting orders from Israel.
By the way, what does that mean?
Israel, again, is a whole bunch of different political parties and things.
I don't think that that area of the world should be turned over to the Islamists.
No, I don't.
I think too much land has been turned over to the intolerant Islamists.
Yes.
And if I wasn't in big support of Israel before I was more neutral,
the fact that I've seen the globalists flood Europe, flood the U.S.,
apologize for radical Islam, apologize for truck attacks,
apologize for Pulse nightclub, try to cover up for radical Islam,
that has made me see it more via the Israeli perspective.
So, if I'm for something, I'll be proudly for it.
There's no arterial motives here.
I mean, I'm very naked about what I do.
Everybody knows it.
And the anti-Israel crowd, normally, I had a reasonable caller earlier,
it wasn't anti-Israel, he just doesn't see foreign aid
and being involved in all these countries why it's good.
And I said, I agree.
I say what Rand Paul said, but you've got to cut off all the foreign funding.
You can't just pick and choose.
And then I've seen articles attack me as anti-Semitic
because I don't want to turn off billions of dollars.
I want to turn off billions of dollars to Israel.
It's the same thing.
I'm pragmatically trying to look at this.
But then, the anti-Israel crowd doesn't do themselves any favors
in that they're not fair or reasonable or accurate
about what they say about people in the coverage of Israel.
It's kind of like liberals.
Accept their ideology or you're a Nazi.
Accept their ideology or you're an Israeli shill.
Accept their ideology and all these groups want to bully you
that we're going to call you this big power name.
We're going to call you an Israeli shill
that supposedly has all this power if you don't do what we want.
Well, then I am an Israeli shill.
There you go.
It's not true, never been to Israel,
but if it makes you feel powerful,
if that takes your power word away, I'll do it.
It's the same thing.
It was like 18 years ago that I'm going to your calls.
I get this call and then a couple emails from an author of a book
about the Vatican and it said,
you haven't responded to my calls and emails,
the third or fourth email, having me on about my book about the Vatican
and if you don't, it means you are with them
and it means you're working for them
and it means that I will expose you and get you basically
and it was funny because I'd seen a few of the emails
even thought about getting the guest on,
but never got around to it because I was producing my show
most of the time myself that actually calling guest up myself
and I just thought, wow, I was about to have this person on,
but they told me that I was a shill for the Vatican
if I didn't have them on, that's like saying,
come in my restaurant and I'm going to punch you in the nose
or buy these pair of shoes or I'm going to say you raped me.
So I said, well, get to making your claims then,
make up a bunch of stuff, how I get paychecks from the Vatican
and work for the Vatican.
I mean, you talk about crazy.
I'm not even Catholic, but see, they wanted me to be anti-Catholic.
Just like folks that want you to be anti-Jew.
I'm not even anti-Muslim.
The biggest victims of radical Islam are Muslims,
but I'm not going to be bullied into supporting any group.
It's not going to work.
We'll be right back with your phone calls on the other side.
And then that member of the EU Parliament will be joining us.
Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes
instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
That's what it means in FloraLife Advanced Restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable FloraLife
everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting edge, top of the line,
probiotics, and digestive enzymes
at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here,
is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at infowarslife.com,
you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist
and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
I'm so excited.
The new product at infowarslife.com
in a glass bottle, two-month servings filled to the brim,
filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic,
but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription,
but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae,
working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill, now available at infowarsstore.com
and your purchase, funds the operation.
Free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years
because it's so easy to forget
to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com,
select your favorite product or products,
click on autoship,
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win,
and with the new autoship feature in infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on autoship.
Win, win, win at infowarslife.com,
free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock
when you sign up for autoship.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
You know, a lot of people ask me why
I'm so vehemently supportive of President Trump,
and it's simple.
Imagine what it'd be like with Hillary Clinton right now.
And then look at everything Trump's delivered on
and look at how globalism,
which is a worldwide authoritarian system,
is in trouble and is collapsing.
It's amazing.
But I was just looking at drubsreport.com during the break
and infowars.com,
and I was just thinking about all the headlines.
17-foot python that could kill any full-grown man
caught in the Everglades.
Putin forever, Russian president, runs again.
American bombers fly over Korean Peninsula.
Chinese paper offers advice on surviving nukes.
AI to create false reality humans can't distinguish.
That's an article from yesterday on infowars.com.
And you know, if I'm self-loathing, it's this.
There's so much incredible news that we break
and that we cover that I don't even get to.
It makes me mad.
So I wasn't jealous of Tucker Carlson.
I was thinking of the right word to use,
because I know Tucker and we're friends
and had dinner with him a few times and stuff,
and he's a listener.
He used to not like me, but the point is, is that...
It wasn't envy this morning.
It was more like sickeningness in that...
I was trying to analyze exactly the thoughts I was having,
and they were so complex I couldn't even quantify it in my own mind.
But it had a promo coming up on Tucker tonight.
Are they watching you while you shower, while you sleep?
Coming up on Fox News.
And of course, they are.
And it's come out that millions of people every year
have people hack into their computers
and into the cameras in their houses and watch them.
And that Airbnb continually gets caught with people
who are perverts, who own the Airbnbs,
who use Airbnb service to watch you in the shower
or have sex or in their bed.
But a lot of hotels have been caught doing it too,
and it's just like we pioneered all this, exposing it.
We were right.
Now it's way worse than even what Tucker's even covering.
What it is is frustration,
because by the time the mainstream media covers something
20 years late, then the public's just kind of used to it,
just accepts it.
And then I get all the criticism for breaking it first
and then it becomes this kind of mainstream thing on Fox News
that's a big investigative journal, a day late,
a dollar short is what I'm saying.
And then I got mad at myself
because when that Airbnb stuff broke yesterday,
I didn't even cover it because it's like old news to me.
I mean, I've got a stack of news where they admit the plan is
to make reality so ugly you accept virtual reality run by Google
and that you just plug into a matrix.
And they had that plan before they wrote the matrix movie.
That's what I mean.
It's like an explosion of information.
There was a stack yesterday, and I'm going to your calls.
There was a stack yesterday of just the most insane AI stuff
admittedly going on, and I didn't even cover it.
And it's like I'm frustrated with myself.
And again, I wasn't mad that Tucker's covering it like,
oh, that's my news.
That's my territorial news.
I'm glad he's covering.
I'm glad it's going somewhat more mainstream.
But it's all over the news now.
Associated Press, New York Post, you name it.
People keep finding hidden cameras in their air B&Bs.
Well, people feel like it's their property.
They feel like you're in there.
And even though it's illegal, they're going to violate your privacy
because they have a feeling of ownership.
Just like people think they're safe with a phone because it's your phone.
Well, it's not really a phone.
It's a super high-tech system that even knows your heart right now
and tracks everything you do and records the audio and video
and sends it back, not just the government, but corporations
that then data mine it and use it.
That's the reality.
Meanwhile, we're fighting some 14-year-old,
1400-year-old, crazy-town religion.
Act like a bunch of 14-year-olds.
They're all being poisoned by the globalists,
all just a big, giant master plan.
And Trump is representing a group coming in,
trying to reform the eugenics operation.
I mean, that's really what's going on.
And he's already faltering on that.
He's not going after the vaccine.
People, like I said, he wouldn't.
It's just a mess.
I mean, I can't believe more people aren't fighting this, folks,
because the New World Order and its plans for you and your family
is bad, bad, and worse than downright pure evil.
And it's not my opinion.
And all the joke pieces and all the TV shows attacking me
won't change that.
And I don't want to be the smart guy that knew it all
and people don't listen because they're not as smart as me.
This isn't hard to figure out.
These people are public about their operations.
All right, we got Lance strongly disagrees with Trump today.
Then I'm going to Carlos.
And then I'm going to go to Josh.
And then I'm going to go to Patrick.
And I promise I'm going to everybody and Nick and everybody else.
We got a good 35, 40 minutes until the next guest is on.
So I'm going to get to you.
I just wanted to make that point about all the AI
and all the surveillance.
And it's a sick feeling to know it's there to expose it
when it was early enough to stop it.
And then once it's ubiquitous and everywhere,
then they admit it to you when they're just getting
ready to roll out the next level.
I mean, I knew they were going to come out with rights
for robots and computers.
So the companies that own them and control them
can create a product that then has rights
so they can outvote you.
And now they've announced that.
I mean, I knew 20 years ago when they came out with self-driving cars
that they would say humans aren't as safe
and phase you out with insurance premiums
and they've announced all that.
I don't even need to read the documents most of the time.
I know how the enemy works.
And I sit here and know what they're going to do.
I'm aware of it.
And then I got to watch it happen.
Lance, you're on the air.
Thanks for holding.
Go ahead.
Hey, Lance in Texas, go ahead, brother.
You're killing me.
I've been with you since the cable days
when you were all black.
I thought, who do you think he is?
Johnny Cash?
Read Arthur Costler's book, the 13th tribe.
They call themselves Jews, but they're not Jews.
They've done genetic testing.
They've done genetic testing.
Most of the Ashkenazi Jews do have Sephardic bloodlines on them.
So they do have some blood going back to the Middle East.
Kessler's book is not accurate.
A little bit.
They're not Hebrews.
They're not Hebrews.
They were from the Caucasus Mountains.
Read the 13th tribe.
I have read it.
Kessler was murdered in 1980 with his wife.
Did you respond to me?
Kessler's book has been debunked.
Oh, really?
When?
Since everybody did genetic testing.
How much genetic blood did they have?
5%, 10%?
Maybe they interbred.
I don't know, but they're not the Hebrews from the ancient...
They're not Judahites.
They're Jews.
They worship the serpent God for goodness sake.
Team God.
Would you like Israel to be blown up?
No.
No, I don't want to hurt anybody, but they are not the ancient Hebrews.
Why won't you say it?
Well, sir, I don't understand why people like you are so mad when you're on air.
And I've read the 13th tribe probably 25 years ago.
Genetic testing's come out and it's shown that it's not accurate.
There were some people in what's Georgia today that converted to Judaism.
So that is certainly the case.
And you do have the Sephardic Jews, which are about 15%, 20%, depending on the numbers you look at.
Who do have the brown skin?
And you've seen video in Israel where you'll see one guy looks like an Eastern European,
but another guy is tall, dark, and handsome, and has darker skin and black hair.
And that person is what you'd call you 100% from one of those tribes that was there.
And so that's why the term anti-Semites is kind of silly because that means Arabic as well.
So it does really all go back to Abraham and that whole story.
So I am aware of the genealogical and anthropological and sociological and archaeological points that you have raised.
Cool.
Now, what if the Palestinians have more hebraic blood in them than your alleged Ashkenazi brothers who don't have as much?
Who gets the land then?
Well, sure.
I mean, it's cultural, just like American Germans went to war in World War II against German Germans.
So it's cultural, it's land areas, it's who controls the land.
And none of those Arab countries take any of the so-called Palestinians to their countries.
And it's because they're on average a very revolutionary group.
Take Linda's source, sir.
You want to move her into your house?
We'll be right back with more calls.
Thank you, Lance.
Real quickly, I want to remind you of some of the sales that we have at infowarstore.com.
We have DNA force, now 33% off.
And that is a big savings.
That is one of our premier products that we sell at Infowars.
It's made, one of the key ingredients is biopqq.
Very expensive to produce, very expensive, very difficult to get to.
That is now 33% off, big savings at infowarstore.com.
The essence is that it helps to keep your telomeres from being shortened.
And that's a key thing in terms of natural death, in terms of life expectancy.
I take DNA force every day, and it's 33% off right now at Infowars store.
Of course, we are live for 10 hours every weekday,
starting with David Knight in the morning,
all the way through the conclusion of the war room,
with the Alex Jones show sandwiched in between there, four hours of it.
And it's all possible because of you supporting us at infowarstore.com.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs
that have been gathered from around the world,
and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural energy,
and it was developed to activate your body's natural energy.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes
instead of using synthetic chemicals.
Infowars Life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body
in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Crashing through the lies and disinformation,
it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Infowar.
Texas State University last week ran a front page cover story
saying whites are inherently evil and their genetics are an abomination.
A mutation.
They can find white people that say that about people that aren't white and vice versa.
It's all just completely made up, completely insane.
But you notice the anti-Israel crowd, they really think they're good guys
and they're calling in saying,
go after Israel. They're bad, Alex. Why are you doing this for them?
I see George Soros, who's Jewish, who worked for the Nazis in WikiLeaks
trying to overthrow Israel. It's more complex than that.
And there's a lot of weird globalist propaganda as a litmus test to hate Israel.
I'll guarantee you the last caller, Lance,
he hadn't had the Jerusalem Post calling Manny Semitic.
I have because I'm not.
It's very complex and it's very Hegelian dialectics what's going on.
But we have a law passed decades ago that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel
and our embassy should be there.
And Trump says, look, we're not going to appease, appease, appease the Islamists anymore.
We're going to start actually pushing back and get some deals.
And he wants to make a deal and he wants to have peace.
Maybe he's going to be right. Maybe he's going to be wrong.
We'll see. I don't know. But he's doing what he said he'd do.
Am I like crying at night or rejoicing at night over this?
I quite frankly am sick of hearing about Israel.
I wish him great luck, everything else. I'm sick of foreign aid to everybody.
I'm like Rand Paul or Ron Paul. Carlos in Canada, what do you think?
Thanks for holding.
Thank you very much, Alex.
I believe that President Trump is a man who I respected for some time
because he showed good judgment in particularly during the campaign.
And I think that in a decision like monumental decision like is made today
and his announcement, I believe that he is putting the United States in a position
where it's getting nothing for it or it's getting something for it.
As a deal maker, it doesn't make any sense to have in a sense done what he has done today
if there isn't something that is going to be treated against it.
But so one of the embassies in Tel Aviv or in actually where the Israeli government is in Jerusalem.
It's great. I mean, why not? Why is it such a big deal?
Hell, we gave the Muslims part of Serbia. We let them attack Russia.
I mean, what more do they want?
Well, because the statements that he made today, Alex, in the context of history,
and you know, you follow history very well, and it's one of your strengths.
And I believe that if you consider the statement that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel,
then Jerusalem is all of Jerusalem, not just part of Jerusalem or east or west Jerusalem.
That's the first issue. And Israel will assume it's Jerusalem.
But if you know the city of London and the London city are two different things,
but they're big difference in the size of the city of London and the London city.
So if you consider the surrounding areas of Jerusalem expanding to be considered, you know, Israeli territory,
then you now have a question of the where's the demarcation.
I think President Trump, in his wisdom, is negotiating something of a greater value for the Middle East.
But in doing so, he has to be very mindful that his words and his interpretation
will be taken beyond the context. And I think that's a problem for this statement.
Other than that, Saudi Arabia will pay a price if it goes along with the decision, I believe.
Well, I think you're right overall, clearly he's signaled in his speech today
that a big deal is happening with Israel and that will be curtailing the settlements.
And I think that's exactly what the issue here is, is he's using this as a brokering point
if you know the art of the deal, try to get that rolling.
We'll see what happens. This has been a multi-thousand year fight going back to the time of Abraham,
even before Mohammed came along, that those groups have been killing each other.
Thank you so much, Barlow's always great points.
Alright, Josh and Nick and everybody else, Harry, your calls are straight ahead.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates
so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste, use carnivore by Infowars Life.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Boy, I gotta tell you, we have had some really smart callers today
who have brought up legitimate issues with what President Trump is doing.
But we've had some others that are just really angry at me
bringing up points that from my research aren't entirely accurate.
Again, I am sick and tired of the Israel-Palestinian thing.
I wish they could all live in peace.
But the other Muslim countries around there won't take any of the so-called Palestinians.
And a lot of them are just refugees from other countries.
Just like there are a lot of refugees from all over the world
wanting to go to Israel claiming they're Jewish.
And a lot of them have no connection to it and are really poor.
But Israel still takes Ethiopian Jews, you name it, into the country.
So I just don't think Israel is the most important country in the world.
I don't think it has the most evil in the world.
It's a mixed bag.
And quite frankly, I like to see Trump follow through on his promises.
But at the same time, I'm just sick of it, you know?
I mean, humanity faces so many threats, AI, GMO, the globalists, the eugenicists.
And I see Israel being used as a set piece in all of this.
That's what I see.
But we're taking your phone calls right now on the subject.
And it is very interesting.
Make no mistake.
And absolutely with Carlos, if you missed the last call or Carlos in Canada made the point,
Trump, if he doesn't have some deal and isn't getting concessions and isn't developing a peace deal through this,
then there's no interest for the U.S.
But Trump said in the speech that they've got a peace deal behind the scenes cooking,
but this is the opening salvo in that.
We'll see what happens.
But they already have their government meetings in Jerusalem.
So how is officially having the meetings there just on paper?
How is that this big giant thing for Irgun who's told Europe,
you do what I want or I'll flood you with 50 million more Muslims?
He just said that six months ago and last week again.
I mean, he just kills thousands of people every few weeks.
He just mows down Kurds, lines up and kills whoever he wants, tortures people, stages elections, stages coups.
It's involved in our internal affairs.
We've got a giant Muslim population that's doubling every 15 years or so.
And it wants to take over and it's got an ideology that wants to take over and it's got a lot of money because it's got a lot of oil.
And we have to decide whether we're going to let Soros, the EU, the Vatican and the globalist turn us into a socialist globalist slash caliphate, a triad.
That's their plan.
That's their program.
Russia sees it.
They're encircled.
Russia's drawn a hard line against it.
That's another reason that globalists hate Russia.
Because Russia is more western now, even though it's not classically western, than the West.
The West has morally gone to sleep and forgotten what it is and has been overrun by globalist opportunistic tech giants that don't want any culture.
They just want total infighting so the big computer takeover can happen while men and women are fighting with each other and black versus white and Muslim versus Christian.
But just because I don't want to fight with Muslims doesn't mean they haven't created a war.
It doesn't mean the globalists haven't engineered something like this that we've got to deal with now.
I want to go to your phone calls.
Who's been holding the longest here?
John and Wyoming here.
John and Wyoming, then we'll go to a Harry.
John, thanks for holding it on here.
I've got a couple of points that'll back up what you've been saying this morning.
World War I, in 1915, when my mother was a little five-year-old girl, she and her older brother and their father and their pregnant mother had to leave Constantinople, which is in Asia Minor, and come to Ellis Island because the Turks during the time of World War I were busy slaughtering a third of a million Greeks and one and a half million Armenians because the Greeks and Armenians were Christians, period.
Now, another thing, fast forward to 1982 during the Lebanese Civil War.
Lebanon in 1982 was a Christian nation.
It was the only Christian government in the Middle East.
And they had an arrest warrant out for Yasser Arafat, who was a longtime bloody murdering terrorist.
Then Ronald Reagan gave Yasser Arafat safe passage out of Lebanon on a United States Navy warship in 1982, despite the fact that the Lebanese wanted to arrest him and try him on terrorism charges.
We gave him a safe passage out of there, and it was Reagan and Maggie Thatcher who engineered the overthrow of the Christian government in Lebanon and replaced it with a Muslim government.
Look what happened earlier this year.
At a peaceful protest in Washington, D.C., those Turkish thugs who worked for the Turkish embassy in D.C., attacked a number of Americans, punched them and kicked them, even kicked them in the face because they were there protesting the Erdogan regime and all of the garbage that's going on.
That's right.
They went across the street to beat up Armenians that dared protest against them and others.
You bet, and that's the thing.
These were peaceful protesters.
They weren't there to start any violence or anything like that, and the Turkish thugs attacked them, and our government did nothing to arrest them or deport them back to Turkey.
The Turks are thugs.
Remember, they sided with the Germans in World War I.
They were German allies in World War I.
They sided with the Kaiser.
In World War II, although the Turks were technically a neutral nation, they still sided with Germany.
They still sided with Hitler.
And now the EU and Merkel are openly saying we're going to replace Europeans with Turks and are in a public alliance.
There's been over a hundred year plan by German aristocracy to replace Germans with Muslims.
I mean, these are official plans. I don't think people know history like you do, but it's absolutely true.
You're right, Alex, because here's the thing to remember.
Remember, people, the British royal family is not British.
They are German.
As a matter of fact, Queen Victoria, who died way back in 1901, was the aunt of Kaiser Wilhelm, Germany's leader during World War I.
Kaiser Wilhelm was her nephew.
And so they changed their name from Saxe-Bigotha to Windsor after Windsor Castle around 1947 because it became increasingly suspicious.
By the way, John, this is only happened about five, six times. It was a project I had.
I got busy. I never did it. We get overwhelmed.
There's only five or six people that have called in over the years.
You only get in maybe once a year or something.
And I said, I want your name. I want your number of memory serves.
And I want to get you on as a commentator, but I don't think we ever called you, did we?
No, sir.
We're getting your number right now, and I'm going to start having you on a segment every week with us if you'll do it.
And I don't know if Nico ever saved the other names. It's my fault. I have these ideas that we're doing.
But you've got your history better than I do even. You're smart. You've got a great voice.
We need folks like you to come on here with us.
So I promise, this time we're going to call you. We're going to start setting you up.
Next week you'll be on if you can do it.
But separately, just finish up.
I'd be delighted. I'd be delighted.
And like you were the guy that was there in 1980 at the convention and all that, right, too?
Right.
Yeah, yeah. You've been calling it like 15 years.
So in the minute we've got left, I think Trump just said, listen, we're not surrendering to Islamic garbage anymore.
Well, I think Trump is being a real president and not a shield for the CFR the way that all of his predecessors have been.
And they really want to get him, don't they?
They want to get him. They will go to any length, including assassination to get rid of the best president that we've ever had.
You think he's better than Washington?
I think he is because Washington did not have the challenges of facing him that President Trump has today.
I was about to say, but Washington may have been a greater man, though, the whole career militarily and president combined.
As president, I got to say, I mean, Trump has already faced down the globalist.
I mean, I would put him co-equal with Washington at this point.
Stay there, John. We'll get your name and number again. You're going to come on this week.
My blood pressure has normalized. My diabetes has totally improved.
Everyone is telling me now how much healthier I look and I'm telling everyone how much healthier I feel.
I recommend heart and body extract to everyone.
Anybody over 40 in the North American continent should be using this product as a preventative to keep their cardiovascular system healthy.
Order your two months supply today by calling 866-295-5305 at 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Guys, wouldn't your wife or girlfriend love it if you treated her to the very best this Christmas?
Well, you can, and you don't even have to go out of your way.
We're talking about the world's softest pajamas available exclusively at pajamagram.com.
That's pajamagram.com. Created by a team of dedicated pajama experts,
the world's softest pajamas are lighter than a cloud, softer than a bunny, like cashmere, only better.
She'll love the way the world's softest pajamas feel, and you'll love the way they look.
More than a gift, they're a feeling, an invitation to relax a little longer.
The world's softest pajamas are available only at pajamagram.com.
Visit today and give her a gift that keeps on giving to both of you.
Plus, you don't even have to wrap because every pajamagram includes free gift packaging and Christmas delivery is guaranteed.
So visit pajamagram.com or call 1-800-GIVE-PJs.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the year. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of InfoWars,
and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic,
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the InfoWars.
It's a simple thing, but they're particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me, but said it says Won't Tread on Me,
and it's a big Deglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag, InfoWars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
The next one is Trigger Warning t-shirt. Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign
in the infowars.com on the back. That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at infowarsstore.com.
Yeah, you like the sound of that?
DNA Force today at infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Yeah!
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It's Alex Jones on the GCN radio network.
All right, we're going to be going to your calls. Boom, boom, boom. Now I want to get to everybody responding to Trump.
Announcing they're going to move the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv, where it really already is, but a bigger one in Jerusalem
and the whole world freaking out. We've got to play patty cake with the Muslims that are all running around
killing each other and killing Christians and killing anybody else that doesn't conform to them.
Why play patty cake? Why sit there and go along with this globalist operation to create global instability?
Trump wants stability. I want the Muslims to live in peace. We'll see what happens.
We've got Jeremy in California. You think Trump's making the wrong move. Thanks for holding.
Hey, man. Thanks for taking my call.
Thank you.
Yeah, I agree. I disagree with you on this. I actually disagree with you on a few things lately,
but quickly though, can I make a guest request for you in the future?
You know that broadcaster Pete Santilli just got released from jail. I think it'd be very interesting to hear his story.
And I think you guys should get him on and talk to him about his the last two years.
Well, I did not know that he was one of the people arrested and the whole Bundy thing.
And I think that they overcharged him. And I don't think he really did anything wrong.
And it was pretty frightening to see that happen. So I was unaware of that. So I'll look into that.
Now, go ahead and get to your point on Trump.
The point is with regard to this, doing this now. Doing this now is kind of like one of those things where you asked,
who benefits? Does the American citizen? Does this make America great again?
And when we're still dropping bombs, when we're still engaged in Syria, when a war with Iran
looks like it's more on the horizon now than it did 10 years ago. And now we're doing this.
And it's like, Trump, okay, fine. He's really good at one thing, we know.
And I know you may not like hearing this, but he's good at trolling. And he's good at trolling the world.
And I think that right now, this is a trolling move and Schumer backs it.
And we know Kushner backs it. And these people that definitely have a relationship with the Israeli government.
I mean, when Benjamin Netanyahu was here for a joint press conference with President Trump,
he singled out Jared Kushner in that press conference.
Well, he certainly did that, but I don't think Netanyahu likes Senator Schumer.
I mean, the whole leftist arm of the Israeli government is trying to get rid of Netanyahu right now.
But listen, I appreciate your call. You say you disagree with some of the stuff I'm covering.
Trump's being bold. He shut down those countries that don't have real passports.
He shut down the UN program where they say who we take in. We should say who we take in.
And Israel's not going anywhere. They got nuclear weapons and they're not our enemy. Leave them alone.
I don't think Israel should keep expanding the settlements and all the rest of it. I think that should stop.
But every time they get attacked, they expand again.
And I kind of get that where you push me, I'm going to get more aggressive.
But it's just we've played all the politics too long here, okay?
But I hear what you're saying. Who's up next here?
Josh in Oregon. Josh, thanks for holding. Go ahead.
Hey, thanks for taking my call, Alex.
So I think it's pretty funny because, you know, I'm old enough to remember that it wasn't too long ago
when Trump was apparently an anti-Semite.
Oh, exactly.
Yeah. And we had, you know, we had those false flags where you had the threat to bomb the Jewish place.
And then that turned out that that was a leftist Jew.
Absolutely. And I mean, you see this time and time again.
But I think it's kind of interesting that people, you know, the idea is that Trump is literally Hitler.
But when you look at who classically and historically aligned with radical Islamists,
at least politically in the sense that they wanted to eradicate the Jews, it was Hitler.
That's a good point. Here in Austin, I swatch how liberals love Volkswagen's and liberals love Audi.
Those are the same companies created by the German government in Hitler.
He created the Audi symbol and the symbol for the Olympics and the Volkswagen symbol
and the first drawing of the Volkswagen bug.
Now, look, imagine if I was driving a car designed by Hitler, they'd say I was a Nazi.
But the left loves socialism. They love command and control. They love Nazi cars.
They love Islam like the Nazis.
This morning, I was thinking the exact same thing.
Their taste, the Antifa uniforms, everything they do, they just love it, don't they?
Oh, absolutely. I mean, you should actually make an Antifa brown shirt like for the store.
Oh, yes.
I have that kind of funny, just mocking them.
But I think what people are kind of overlooking here is the level of political courage that this took for Trump to do.
I mean, it truly is amazing. You know, people say that he's not...
You had Joe Scarborough saying he's not worried about his legacy, you know, all psycho joke.
It's just ridiculous. I mean, this is a guy who's really putting himself out on the line,
putting his neck on the line and, you know, really making a very controversial move.
That's his own decision and he is his own man.
It's just incredible, you know, to see these attacks.
But when it comes to making a deal with the Palestinians, it's something like North Korea.
They're coming out now and saying, oh, you know, if you would just allow us to have nukes, we won't nuk you.
It's like...
Well, exactly. But let me throw this out there since you're making the point.
You can just type in World Map of Muslim Countries.
And if you just look the last 50 years, it's spreading everywhere and they kill everybody.
They take over. It looks like tentacles going into Europe and Asia.
And it's all over the place and they've killed something like 140 million Hindus.
I mean, it's why the Indians love Trump so much.
And it's the craziest thing ever to see it.
And then there's this little bitty place, Israel, they want to turn that green or red if it's U.S.
Muslim areas in red.
And it's just crazy.
Again, he's saying the march is over.
The takeover is over.
The jihad is over.
The crusades are beginning.
And that doesn't mean we're going to invade you and kill you.
It means we're not going to...
Because the globalists were running the radical Muslims and running the other side.
The globalists have been playing both sides of this.
And Trump is pragmatically saying it's over.
We're not doing it anymore.
And that will make it better for the Muslims.
We're not going to go ahead.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Just like you've alluded to many times.
When it comes to the Middle East, the number one target of radical Islam and terrorism is other Muslims.
Absolutely. I don't wish harm on anybody.
I don't need to hate some group just so I feel good about myself.
The left globally is allied with the most radical form of Islam.
It's powerful. It's growing.
It's a clear and present danger.
And yes, the globalists were manipulating Islam to take our rights away and letting them come in and attack us.
I want that over too.
I want the whole thing.
The staged events, the false flags, the funding radical Islam.
I want it over.
And so does Trump.
God bless you.
I appreciate your call, Josh.
I've gone to Nick in Detroit or Patrick or Harry.
And Harry's been holding forever.
Oh my gosh.
Harry, go ahead.
From PA, you're on the air.
Yeah. Hi, Alex.
Love the show. Love the parts.
What I'm going to get at is that what Trump did today moving the embassy to the Holy city of Jerusalem was a very coordinated effort.
Because we know the reaction that's going to come from the UN.
They're going to keep pushing the narrative of Israel being the aggressor in the area.
And what you just touched on is no, they don't.
They get attacked and they expand a little bit.
But what I think Trump has done is to get ahead of that is just as we know just last week he retweeted a bunch of videos that shows
Islamic aggression throughout the world.
So he defeated the UN's response to what he did.
Preemptively. You're a genius.
Stay there.
We're going to come right back to you.
I want to hear more on that.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Find your happiness with pure soap.
These all natural earth friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk.
Get a 12, 36 or 48 month supply.
Or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now.
Earth friendly and natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Calben's soap company can save you thousands of dollars
and give you good old fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E star soap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
I want to plow into all of this.
But I'm going to spend a few minutes here first.
Just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts
or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com
you are funding the revolution.
I mean I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best chloride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
This is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract
that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Inforce Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
Infowars Biome Defense Probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality,
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion
and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome Defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic strains
that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop
what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your Biome Defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at infowarstore.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years,
but this is the limited first round of the public,
so please take advantage of it today,
support your own health and support the infowar.
The Alex Jones show, because there is a war on for your mind.
We've got two plugs to get to today, products at infowarstore.com.
Great place to shop for Christmas, beat the lines,
not fight the traffic, get high quality supplements,
high quality water filters, air filters.
Patriot Apparel, we've got some big specials running right now.
Vitamin mineral fusion, 50% off with all the amino acids.
The vitamins, the minerals is great for yourself,
your children, your family, tastes great, all organic.
We've also got the fluoride free colloidal silver
empowered emboldened iodine and colloidal silver in the toothpaste.
We've got super blue 50% off as well at infowarstore.com
or triple eight two five three three one three nine
and that funds it all and makes it all possible.
We've got some other new products there as well,
but you know, I'm so focused on news today.
If you want to find out about our new product on the site,
you can just go look it up for yourself.
It's called Alpha Power and it's just take too long to get into it.
It's too good. It's too important in the product.
I believe it'll become probably our number one best seller.
So I'm not going to talk about it anymore because you can't do it justice.
I want to go back to your calls as we get our guest,
a member of the European Union Parliament from the UK,
Janice Atkinson on in just a few minutes.
But Harry in Pennsylvania, you were finishing up
Trump's strategy that I agreed.
Putting out the Islamic atrocities first,
letting the, you know, you and others attacking for that.
So that then they'll look even stupider when they attack him.
We're talking about moving our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
But as he said today is a way to then have an opening debate
about how to really negotiate a real and lasting peace because
as far as the Palestinian Authority and others are concerned,
Israel existing is a non-starter.
And here's the deal.
Everybody wants you to take sides.
I'm on the Palestinian side of the Israeli side.
I'm neither one of those groups, but I can geopolitically look at it.
Israel's got nuclear weapons.
They're not going anywhere.
It's like North Korea and I'm not saying Israel's like North Korea.
I mean, North Korea has crappy nuclear weapons.
They're not going anywhere unless they pull something.
I mean, again, we, it's like, you know, start a war with Israel.
I mean, who's going to do that?
The Arab States again?
It's just crazy how we've gotten to this point.
So go ahead and finish up your point.
Yeah, huh?
Well, the reason why I'm going to finish it off where is that
Trump has got so many million people following him on Twitter,
even more people following him on Facebook.
So when he retweets just raw footage reality,
it's not stage, it's not set up that way.
It's just Muslims doing these acts of their own volition.
It pushes the over to the window back into the realm of actually having
an open discussion of what, what the problems are.
And he pretty much today's actions are a signal flare going out to everybody
saying, this is now official.
We are now standing with our allies and we need to get this narrative,
which is completely backwards that the fact that the,
that Israel is the aggressor in the area,
when that's completely not true.
That's complete fabrication that's pushed by the UN,
pushed by certain members of the EU.
And it's, Trump has pretty much destroyed that.
And now we can actually have an honest discussion about what's going on.
Well, if you look at maps globally of Islam spread across the world,
anywhere it gets control, it then pushes out everybody that is an Islamic.
And so there's Israel right in the middle of the Hornets Nest.
And you can see the Islamic invasion points in Europe in a Spencer attack.
They're Turkey and then through Albania.
And it's a very, very serious situation.
And again, I'm not wanting to fight with the Muslims.
This is a fact has become a politically correct litmus test.
When they carry out attacks or you name it,
to not even say it's an Islamic attack.
And the biggest victims of Islam are people under its control.
So I hope for its reformation.
Well, she's an amazing lady.
I've seen many of her speeches on YouTube in the European Union Parliament.
They say she could be the next Margaret Thatcher.
I hope she is.
She's been behind the Brexit with Nigel Farage and others.
Janice Atkinson selected the European Parliament 2014 to secure referendum
on Britain's membership in the unelected dictatorial EU,
because the bureaucracy is unelected and then has the parliament under it.
For 20 years, she's campaigned to leave the undemocratic,
expensive, unaccountable, arrogant EU.
And on 23rd of 2016, she did, but now they're striking back.
And we see nationalism, populism exploding everywhere.
So Janice Atkinson at janiceatkinson.co.uk.
Thank you so much for coming on with us today and to give us a report on
the state of the EU and where this fight's going.
Thanks for joining us.
Good afternoon, Alex.
Glad to be here.
I'm in DC.
I'm here with a delegation from the parliament.
I'm the flying the ointment here.
We've been up on the hills speaking to various senators.
There's the outpouring of grief from the Democrats who are just still in denial about Trump.
We think he's fab, absolutely fab from the so-called populist side of things.
You know, there's been a real earthquake in the EU.
First of all, with Brexit, and then they got Trump.
They're in complete and utter meltdown.
Some of the Republicans up on the hill as well.
We do have some friends, and we're very pleased to be here.
And look what your president has done.
Since I've been here, you've got the tax cuts through.
Fantastic.
My colleagues actually don't get tax cuts.
They're sitting there scratching their head, wondering, tax cuts?
No, we increase taxes to pay for our green pet projects and our transgender issues.
It's so refreshing to hear some of the Republicans rejecting that.
And they really don't get that if you start reducing taxes, corporation tax and also taxes on the ordinary people,
then, you know, your fiscal drag will go down.
Your GDP will go up.
People have got cash in their pocket.
They spend it on their families.
They spend it back into your economy.
They really don't get that.
All they understand is tax is going up.
And while we've been here, I think Trump has now declared,
I can't remember because I've been travelling for the past half an hour,
but he's declared that you're moving your embassy, your US embassy to Jerusalem.
I wish my own prime minister would have the guts to do that,
to stand up for our biggest allies in the Middle East.
What else has Trump done this week?
He's done pretty well.
We support him on the populist right.
Absolutely.
And he's breaking the back of political correctness because it seems like Europe, the UK, the US have been whipped by political correctness
by all of this anti-liberty, anti-capitalism.
And then you see Lynda Sorcerer and all these really radical Palestinian groups funded by George Soros,
not just here but in your country and other areas,
literally telling us we have to capitulate to Islam.
I was never even on the bandwagon freaking out about Islam.
I mean, I came late to that when it just got so out of control
and I see what's happening in the UK and the total capitulation of Germany to it, it's bizarre.
Yeah, it is.
Time and time again, we try to call it what it is on outside the politics is radical Islam.
They do not speak its name.
They have got the borders open.
They can't secure their external borders.
They've got Schengen, which is a complete nut and free movement of people.
They reckon that this is the EU's figures.
50,000 jihadis have actually slipped through from Syria, Iraq and other places.
In my own country, we've had 500 that have rejoined that have been allowed back in my country.
And the answer from my government, oh, let's give them a council house.
Let's provide them with housing when we've got people from our own armed forces
that have served in our country lying on the streets because they can't get housing.
Eight out of 10 houses that we're building in my country now goes to migrants
and they're not really grateful for this in my country.
Also, there's a report this week stating how we respond to the current jihadi threat.
Now, we've had over the past few years, 269 deaths.
That's just in my country.
And this year alone, just in the summer, we had 37 deaths and 20 odd of those
were the mothers and the children that were blown up at the Ariande grand concert.
Jenna Sagan said, you're on fire.
I want to hear about how we deal with this when we come back, member of the EU Parliament
and where the breakdown of the EU's going because of their authoritarianism straight ahead.
The populist explosion is worldwide in the UK's at the tip of the spear.
Stay with us.
3139. Yeah.
The essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism,
lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been
gathered from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes
instead of using synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarslife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body
in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick.
I'm a longtime listener of InfoWars and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering
are absolutely fantastic and that really is a great way to deal with this battle
in the InfoWars.
It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts
that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you.
My favorite new one is the don't tread on me but said it says won't tread on me
and it's a big Deglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag,
infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word
and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt.
Trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign
in the infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at infowars.com.
He aligns himself with the truth and it's time for you to choose a side.
You're listening to Alex Jones.
Janice Atkinson is a member of the EU Parliament from the UK
right in the same area as Nigel Farage with UKIP.
JaniceAtkinson.co.uk.
I can't wait to get her back up for a full hour sometime to take her phone calls.
Roger Stone's coming up in the fourth hour,
but I was talking to her during the break saying what do you want to get into
that's most central and it was the exact questions I had.
Why are you in DC? That's exciting.
What's going on with the jihad threat?
And what's happening with the rise of populism?
Why do you think it's exploding so fast now,
not just with UKIP and the Brexit or Trump,
but all over the world from Latin America to Asia, it's happening.
So again, thank you so much for joining us to break that down.
Okay, well, I'm here as part of an official EU delegation.
I'm going to place this on the EU US delegation
and we're over here to talk about trade
and also transatlantic cooperation.
I had an interesting lunch yesterday with Wilber Ross
and I said, will you restate your commitment to our special relationship?
Do you know the man was absolutely brilliant?
He said, absolutely.
We will put you at the front of the queue.
He said, but I can tell you, Brits now,
we will not sign up to the poison pill trade deal
that the EU wants to hand over to you.
And then he laughed and he said, well, we might send in it.
They might send in the EU army.
I said, don't laugh.
I'm actually making a speech on that this evening
because it's a real threat.
Them having their designer uniforms with their flags
and their shiny new buildings,
but they will have tanks and they will have armies
and they are setting up directly in direct opposition to NATO,
which is quite dangerous.
So we've been having meetings up on the hill.
There's been some fantastic Republicans up there.
The Democrats are just totally into sort of free falls,
snowflake falls.
I've been to a Democrat so-called think tank.
It's a McCain funded think tank.
They're very pro-EU.
They're very worried about the rise of so-called populism
because obviously we have Brexit
and then we have the king of populism, Trump.
I was in Trump Tower on election night.
I was here campaigning for him
with a lot of my European colleagues as well.
And Brexitism, Trumpism and the rise of populism
is a direct result of against the elites,
the people like Obama, the people like Merkel,
the people like Cameron and now May.
They're fed up having this sort of social Democrat,
almost socialist program put onto them.
They feel they're not being listened to,
they're not being listened to,
whether it's migration, their kids schooling,
whatever the agenda is, it all comes centrally
out of America or it comes out of the EU
and they're revolting against this.
I mean, in France, we've got my friend,
Marine Le Pen.
She fought the presidency against Macron.
She's got 30% of the support.
She's not going away
and she is the official opposition to the presidency.
My friend, Geert Wilders,
the head of the People's Party in the Netherlands,
he is the official opposition.
And in Austria, they've just had a recent election there.
The Conservatives will be going into coalition
with my friends, the FPO, the Austrian Freedom Party.
So across Europe, in the Czech Republic,
Friends of Mine, again, a Freedom Party,
they've come from nowhere to having 22 MPs and 32 senators.
It's happening in Greece.
You've got a new party there called Neodexia
and they are fallout from the Conservative Party
because the Conservative Party,
the equivalent of the Republican Party
are not delivering conservatism.
And the same is happening in Spain as well
with another group called Vox.
So across Europe, there is this explosion of people
that want conservatism but it's not being delivered, Alex.
And that's the same thing we're seeing here
where the fake Conservatives,
allied with the establishment liberals,
the globalists have been holding on so long,
but now the revolutions are through the Conservative parties
with more of a libertarian populist movement that's popular
and that we're winning.
So we're not just winning elections,
but we're also taking over
the old establishment Conservative parties
or at least challenging them.
And so now they're really fighting, it seems,
for their political lives and it seems like the tide
is really violently turned against them.
Yeah, it is.
And listening to some of the better Republicans
up on the hill this week,
I mean, very supportive,
I was talking about the nation states, sovereignty, borders.
And the EU is very diplomatic when it comes over here
and there is a consensus.
So even from the alt-left, the communists,
through to Angela Merkel's people and the odd liberal here as well,
they are all speaking with one voice and then I pop up saying,
actually, the reality is this, this is happening.
And we are very kind to each other.
We're very diplomatic,
but I've had some of my colleagues turn their guns on me this week.
She doesn't speak for us.
I said, well, actually, I speak for millions.
No, I don't speak for you,
but I speak to the 9 million people that I represent
in the southeast of England.
I don't represent the 500 million in Europe.
I'm supposed to, apparently, but I don't.
I represent my own country.
They actually get the nation state.
Now, I was at a think tank, which is funded by McCain just now.
I've just come away from that.
I was so dismayed.
We're called extremists.
We're called xenophobes, et cetera.
And this think tank was saying that they are dismayed
at the demise of the socialists.
I mean, this is a Republican think tank
that is saying that they are surprised and disappointed
at the center-left demise and the socialists.
But I don't think they really get what center-left is in Europe.
It's Marxism.
In my country, we've got an old grandad called Jeremy Corbyn,
who's got to the top of the Labour Party.
If we're not careful, then we've got the Marxists taking over my country.
I was about to say we see a lot of victories for populism,
conservatism, capitalism.
But the UK, I guess because of the whole coalition government,
the way Parliament's broken up, it seems like May is hanging on
that if she goes, they bring in really, really nasty labor, right?
Well, I think if the Conservative Party, I mean, they are survivors.
So what they need to do is ditch her.
She was an absolutely awful Home Secretary.
And I do know her personally when I was in the Conservative Party.
They've got to ditch her.
They've got to have a leadership...
I was about to say, you've got personality.
You look good, hold nine yards.
You have a great history.
Why not somebody like you?
But I know it's another party.
Why does she just seems...
She has, like, the personality of drawing paint.
She's not fit for the job.
She came through the middle because Michael Gove stabbed Boris Johnson in the back.
So when they're going back to sort of ground zero,
the Conservative Party have got to have another election of a leader.
They've got to dump her.
She's incapable.
She's actually making a joke of us through the Brexit negotiations.
She's got some ridiculous little Luxembourgian in Jean-Claude Juncker,
who is the president of the commission.
I was about to say, and now she's been bad-mouthing Trump trying to earn points with the left.
That only makes him think she's weak.
Well, this is why, and they really don't get this,
that populism is on the march, as they call it,
because they're not representing the ordinary grassroots of the Conservative Party.
Now, at the moment, the grassroots Conservative Party at home,
who actually elect the leader, is going for Jacob Rees-Mogg.
Now, you should get Jacob on.
You know, he's like an old Edwardian type of conservative.
I don't think he's yet faulty.
But he's a real conservative.
And what we need in the number 10 down the street is a Brexit here.
And, of course, Mrs May was a remainder.
Her rivals, such as David Davis and Dr. Liam Fox,
who I think the Americans know really well,
and he's a great guy, a real conservative.
He's our trade negotiator.
They're running rings around her,
and she's making an absolute fool of us in the Brexit negotiations.
And the way she's talking about Trump at the moment is really dangerous.
You know, as we leave the European Union,
if we get a free trade deal with a great, fine, don't care.
If not, we'll go to a World Trade Organization rules.
And it will be Russia yesterday and President Trump.
You will be at the front of the queue for a free trade deal.
So when you have the British Prime Minister berating President Trump
for retreating, actually the truth,
one of the videos wasn't necessarily the truth,
but the others are telling the truth.
This is why the parties are turning to right-wing populism
and true conservative parties.
And that's why the likes of Merkel and May
and the Republican conservatives in France are losing ground.
And that's a great shame because they're hemorrhaging votes.
The conservative party lost an awful lot of votes to UKIT
until we can unite the right around some decent people
like Dan Halen, Nigel Farage, me, Jacob Rees-Mogg,
and Dr. Liam Fox and people like that.
Exactly. I mean, even though you're the majority,
the fact is Parliamentary, you guys are split up.
That's how they're manipulating it.
And if you look at this, the EU says,
we're going to make all the rules.
We're an election bureaucracy.
We've got a ceremonial, you know, group below that
that you're part of, but you've been elected.
So it should be the other way around.
Until they stop trying to block that, they have no legitimacy.
And of course the UK should want to negotiate its own trade deals.
That's completely reasonable.
I mean, it's the opposite of authoritarianism.
Yeah, it is, but they don't recognize the nation state.
The trade deals, and you wonder why the EU hasn't got
many more trade trade deals around the world.
They've got trade deals with very many tiny countries.
And that's because the woman in charge of trade
is a woman called Cecilia Malmstrom.
She is Swedish, and her expertise is teaching sociology.
That was her job.
So when you put...
Hold on, hold on.
Do five more minutes with us.
Janice Atkinson, member of the EU Parliament from the UK.
We only got to go to break for two minutes.
I want to come back briefly just for five more minutes
and ask you where you see the EU going on its current course.
Is it irrevocably damaged?
And what does the collapse look like when and if it comes?
Stay with us.
Hour number four, Roger Stone.
A few more of your calls as well.
I'm Alex Jones.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients
such as valerian root extract, L-tryptophan,
lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night
and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness,
but with the rapid speed of life,
we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of ten known ingredients
to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula
that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Brainforce Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation
and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract
that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12
and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch
and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brainforce Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
And Janet Atkinson, a member of the EU Parliament.
They can say the next Margaret Thatcher,
a really smart great lady for 20 years in UKIP,
a member of the EU Parliament.
And again, the EU bureaucracy is unelected on an accountable dictatorial,
but under pressure they created the EU Parliament,
which is supposed to be ceremonial,
but more and more it is a place where herself and Nigel Farage and others
can expose the EU for what it's up to.
And as Nigel said last year,
you're not laughing now when brings it past.
You're not laughing now.
Five years ago I read about the secret EU army.
They said it was a conspiracy theory.
Now they tell people, hey, sign an agreement
so we can just come into your country whatever we want.
The Italians this year said no to that.
So where does this go?
It seems like they're becoming even more authoritarian
and more militaristic.
Are they on their last legs?
And if they do collapse, what will it look like?
This is the last chance to shore up.
We thought actually it would be the euro collapse
that would bring it down.
And you still got 50% youth unemployment in Greece,
in Portugal, in Spain,
Germany's propping it up, the IMF,
the European Investment Bank, it can't go on.
The place is bankrupt.
What will break its back actually is the migrant crisis
because we've seen millions of people
trying to break into our countries.
They can't secure their national borders.
They have an open border system with Schengen,
which the UK isn't part of.
And now the EU is very authoritarian
and saying that there's certain countries
you have to take your migrant quotas.
There's lots of countries that have taken in migrants.
80% of them are economic.
They're not real refugees and asylum seekers,
and those poor people are getting mixed up in all this.
So the EU, the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker,
is dictating to Poland who's got a right-wing government
and authoritarian government in power.
And Victor Orban's hungry and saying,
you have got to have X thousand number of migrants.
And if we don't, we will find you
hundreds of thousands of pounds per migrant.
That's authoritarian.
The people are not putting up with it.
And these countries haven't got a history of migration.
In my country, we've got many Afro-Caribbeans.
We've had people from Uganda, et cetera.
And on the whole, people have integrated.
But when you're swamped with migrant numbers
as we have, and Merkel took in 1.2 million,
I mean, she's lost control.
She's hanging on by a thread.
But a stupid woman is going into coalition
with the social democrats who lost the election
and badly lost the election, thankfully.
But she won't do a deal with the Alternative for Deutschland,
who are the populists.
So, you know, she's cutting her own throat.
So this is going on across Europe with the migrant crisis.
Their own numbers say there's around about 10 million poised
to come in from Africa.
Who caused the African crisis in Libya?
Well, it was the EU.
Cameron Sarkozy backed up by the EU.
Exactly.
It's a plan.
And they admit it's quite a replacement population.
And then you sit there and look at it.
A young girl last week said,
if we don't bring in 50 million more people
out of the Middle East and North Africa, we're doomed.
I mean, this is insane.
It is.
And what we're doing, Alex, is trying to preserve our culture,
our way of life, our identity,
preserve our judo, Christian basis of roots.
I mean, I'm a woman that's been in politics.
And it's not easy being in politics.
You're attacked, especially from outside of politics.
But when a few years ago, when women would tell
we could have it all, I absolutely believed that.
And I had just two children.
My husband's got two children as well.
We have to have more children.
We've got to fund the Western world having more children.
So they're saying, you know, we have a demographic crisis
and we haven't got enough people to pay taxes.
Well, if they change their economic model,
they don't have enough people who are actually...
Exactly. Socialism, you can't have children.
It's not about racism. It's about survival.
And if we were going to bring in replacement populations,
why not from Latin America or something,
at least they're not going to kill everybody
if they don't convert to a weird religion.
I mean, I'm sorry.
It's insane to say, we're now going to replace Europe
with Muslims from Africa and the Middle East.
It sounds like a nightmare,
but it's their official plan.
And then if we point out the plan, they say we're racist
when they say it in speeches every day.
Janice Atkinson, JaniceAtkinson.co.uk.
I'm very impressed with your work.
Great job to Nico and folks for getting you on.
I've seen your speeches in the union parliament.
So bravo. We're looking forward to speaking to you soon.
God bless.
Happy to do it. Thanks, Alex. Bye.
Thank you. Roger Stone coming up.
After years of research working with top developers
here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore,
for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture
of the very best strains in fluorolife advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable
fluorolife everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting-edge,
top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes
at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at m4store.com,
you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist
and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
You've got it, you've got it.
Thank you for your space coming to you.
Waging War on Corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
Well, folks, I'm doing all four hours today
because I didn't get to a lot of news
and I want to talk to my good buddy, Roger Stone.
We're both so busy, we don't get a lot of time to talk very often.
I tell you, Roger Stone is the most accurate person
in all things Trump that I've been involved with.
And he's been dead on.
But I got to tell you, Paul Watson made a point a few days ago on Tuesday
when I was co-hosting with him and he was saying,
look, Trump is winning politically with this Mueller thing.
It's all falling apart.
The wheels are coming off the wagon.
They're catching them all being Democratic Party operatives.
Even if they get a fake indictment out of the swamp,
they're not going to get impeachment in the house.
They're not going to start the impeachment, the indictment.
That's what Paul Watson thinks.
And Paul Smart, now, now, Roger's been saying,
hey, we've got to get rid of Mueller
because Trump's lawyers are telling him that debt, you know,
you'll be cleared, you've done nothing wrong
because Trump knows he's done nothing wrong.
But they're in there trying to still get an indictment of the president.
And I said this last week, now Dianne Feinstein says
they look like they could have an indictment by Christmas,
okay, for obstruction of justice.
So no Russian collusion, but obstruction when it comes to investigations.
So I'm not saying Roger's wrong.
And previous to all this new news coming out,
where Mueller's whole thing is a tumbling house of cards,
I agreed with Roger that he should just get rid of Mueller
because the guys are joking a fraud.
Why can't the president get rid of him when Rosenstein,
without the president's authorization, just created him.
It's a palace coup.
And they've got these different avenues of he has neurological disorders
that we first broke six months ago.
Now that's the talking point.
He doesn't have neurological disorders.
We broke the fact they're about to push that fraud.
They are.
And the 25th Amendment, they're pushing that.
They're pushing coups, physical overthrow, his execution, his assassination.
But their big thing is, and now Mueller admits this,
it's all over the news.
And the Wall Street Journal says it's a fraud,
indictment to then wound the president for impeachment.
Because again, an indictment for something like this by a kangaroo grand jury
will not remove the president under law.
Or every two-bit grand jury out there in the country would be doing just such a thing.
So we're going to talk about the president's two lawyers,
who Stone kept saying, watch, they're undermining him.
They're setting him up.
And then, boom, they put out this tweet from the president, supposedly,
but written in the third person, which now there's witnesses of the lawyers
seeing and admits that it was not Trump, saying, oh, you know,
Trump knew Flynn was lying to the FBI.
So that's why he got rid of him.
The president had said it was because he,
Pence didn't like him and said he lied to him.
Okay, so again, they're really pushing this.
So I just laid out a complex cornucopia in this constellation of information
because I'm not exactly sure what's going on.
But what we do is try to suss it out here on air.
And Roger has got the inside baseball.
But is Paul Watson right?
I mean, this Mueller thing is like Hitler presiding over the Nuremberg trials
or John Gotti presiding over La Cosa Nostra hearing, you know, over Capos in New York City.
I mean, this is like having the Easter Bunny, you know, hold a trial over, you know,
the Easter Bunny.
I mean, this is like Al Capone being the judge in his own income tax trial.
I mean, how long can it go?
It's so ridiculous.
And because it seems like they are trying to get Trump to fire Mueller
so that it looks precipitous.
So I'm not sure.
And I'm usually pretty sure of things.
Roger, you just saw the calculus there.
I'm sure you can add some things here to the witch's broth,
which is brood. What do you really think?
Well, first of all, I want to say we are broadcasting from the new Info Wars Bureau in New York.
And we've now finally pulled it all together.
So it's, it's, it's great to be with you.
It's chilly here.
Let me just say several things.
First of all, never in my almost 40 years in American politics.
Have I ever seen the Republic teetering in the face of a coup?
But the good news is that the forces of freedom,
the forces of free enterprise and decency and personal and economic freedom are on the upswing.
That's why the globalists are so clumsy and obvious in their efforts to take out Trump.
Mueller, Comey's best friend as the special prosecutor in which Comey presumably testifies that the president obstructed justice.
I think the president's lawyers are naive.
I think they misunderstand the enmity of the two party duopoly and the establishment who's had total control for 30 years.
That's right. They're blinded by the president's innocence.
They're blinded by how there's no evidence, thinking no way they're going to indict the president.
Bull, they've got the swamp jury ready and now Feinstein and others are admitting that's the plan.
Well, but the worst part is the, is not the snakes in the grass, the Democrats.
It's the asps in the bosom.
But Trump has surrounded himself with deep state psycho funds and Trump a lot and Bush alum, pardon me.
And I believe that his lawyers are sleepwalking him to the gallows.
They are naive about the absolute ferocity and partisan nature and the resolve to remove Donald Trump in any way possible.
What they want to do is undo what they lost at the ballot box.
This is a naked attempt to negate the last American election because Donald Trump, an outsider to their two party schemes, won in a populist revolt.
And they want him out.
Now there's plan A, plan B and plan C in my view.
Plan A is Mueller.
Mueller has demonstrated that he will bring process related indictments that have nothing to do with the Russian collusion in order to squeeze witnesses.
And then the stunning news that he had subpoenaed the Trump organization's bank records at Deutsche Bank.
That's a $300 million portfolio of real estate developments by Donald J. Trump.
What does this have to do with the Russian collusion?
Did Trump sell an apartment to a wealthy Russian or two at a highly inflated price?
Yes.
So what?
I want to expand on this.
One of the articles we'll cover after we come back from break where it's being reported that it's been confirmed that a bunch of these FBI agents that have had to step down literally were the ones that interviewed Flynn.
They're the ones that have protected Hillary.
They're the ones that did all this and that now they're probably lying on even the FBI forms they wrote up that got Flynn indicted to begin with.
Representative David Stockman on Flynn.
The interview was blatant entrapment.
I mean, this thing is ridiculous.
And now we're learning that retired CIA agent high level that's involved with the president is coming out and saying that HR McMaster actually approved the NSA spy job on the Trump family.
What do you make of that, Roger?
This is not surprising and but it confirms what we have known from some time.
Let me remind you, Alex, it was info wars that broke the story that McMaster had attended a dinner with Safra Katz, the the incredibly accomplished woman who is the CEO of the Oracle company.
He was trying to woo her to come on some largely honorific advisory oversight board.
She declined because McMaster got inebriated, left to take up phone call from the president, returned to the table and then denigrated his boss calling him a dope, a simpleton with the mind of a child and said that only he, McMaster, stood between Trump and the nuclear codes.
She was grossly offended.
She told Sheldon Adelson, who has declined to comment for the public, but it's no surprise McMaster, as you know, was very, very tied into Soros.
We can get into this on.
Let's talk about it when we come back because you broke that a full four weeks, five weeks before it was all mainstream news two weeks ago, and it's just you see him up on TV.
He is so into himself, man.
Alex, look, this is really simple info wars tomorrow's news today.
That's right with Roger Stone straight ahead.
So why did Trump's lawyer put out that tweet, though, that gave them the only claim of obstruction of justice they've got? Why'd they give them that gift?
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life.
NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
ID stronghold wallets are different.
They may look the same on the outside.
They're stylish.
They'll hold your cards and cash, but they're hiding something great on the inside.
No, there are no pyrotechnics and it doesn't sing when you open it, but it does have magical powers.
ID stronghold wallets protect your critical information and identity from thieves standing right next to you.
Protect your family this holiday season with affordable leather ID stronghold wallets and purses.
Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your information just by walking past you.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID bag.
ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology over 12 years ago.
Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code present for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
That's coupon code present also available at walmart.com, eBay, Amazon or QVC.
ID stronghold.com
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription,
but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers, non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
Yeah, you like the sound of that?
At infowarslife.com, or call 1-888-253-3139.
Yeah!
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, Roger Stone takes over the next segment. I just wanted to talk to him a while about all the big breaking news. I appreciate him having me with him during the fourth hour.
He's also going to be coasting, obviously, with Owen Shroyer, as he does each weekday.
Owen Shroyer kicks off the war room at 3 p.m. Central coming up here in exactly 40 minutes.
I just want to remind listeners, infowars.com, newswars.com, the globalists are trying to block us censorists.
They have congressional hearings about it, how they're trying to block us.
So when you share the articles and videos, you're getting out information they see as their defeat.
The houses reject dim vote on Trump impeachment. That just happened again. That's another update.
They are never going to stop, though, and that's why they want this indictment.
And what Roger said is so critical in the last segment.
Trump's lawyers know there's no Russian collusion. They have all the NSA intercepts.
They know everything Obama knows now that Obama had been doing to them. That's now all confirmed.
First, they admitted they were spying and said, oh, we got all the dirt. Trump went, really, that's illegal.
Plus, leaking it's illegal. They went, oh, we never spied on you.
And now it's in the Flynn indictment. They're spying on his family.
On yours truly, it came out in earlier NSA transcripts.
And it wasn't just me. It was hundreds of thousands of people.
Trump specifically, everything he's doing. And then there's nothing there.
And they claim, well, you didn't answer questions right to our investigators.
And then it's weirdo FBI agents that openly covered up for Hillary who are involved.
I mean, this is a scandal. And people say, well, then don't worry.
They're being discredited. The problem is the political class doesn't care the amount of hatred.
They're committed like kamikazis.
And we've seen minions in the liberal media like Bayhar and what's that other idiot's name on?
Or he was on Esquire, the former sports broadcaster.
What's that guy's name? Yeah, keep other men.
So it's just got a mental block on his name.
They all come out and said, Trump will be gone soon.
Trump will be gone soon. He'll be gone by December.
And that's what we've seen Phil Mudd say, what we've seen Brennan say.
It's what just three weeks ago, Roger had lunch with a bunch of congressmen.
They said, no, we've been told he's gone by the end of December.
So they're getting ready to try to make their move, but he can't be gone just by December,
just if they indict him for obstruction of justice with this phony baloney, you know, swamp creature grand jury.
That isn't enough.
So, Roger, what do you think they've got sneaking around in the background?
Well, Alex, as you know, the political establishment, Republicans and Democrats are deeply committed to
removing this president through any means necessary.
And I call the Mueller investigation, the whole Russian collusion delusion, play it out.
It should not fail.
Let us say Mueller comes up with a weak indictment or no indictment.
It's going to be process related because there is no collusion with the Russians.
That's come up empty handed, despite the very best efforts of Representative Adam Schiff and Senator Mark Warner
and others who have flogged, you know, that canard as long as they can.
No one has found any willful effort by the Trump campaign or Trump family or Trump associates
or Trump friends to plan, conspire, collude with Russian entities to change the outcome of the election.
That is simply false.
Donny Jr.'s communications are all perfectly legal and the proceedings are innocuous,
but they were hyped up by the mainstream media.
Don Jr.'s a patriot and I think he's probably watching us right now on Infowars.
I can't stand the fact that Trump understands what he's up against and is gaining ground and is pulling away from them
as the economy gets stronger and stronger.
They get more and more panicked, more and more shrill.
Where do you expect this to go?
When do they fail to get their impeachment?
Well, I must say Fox News deserves three stars because they really have,
you know, there's perhaps more balance there than there used to be in terms of liberals like Shep Smith and others who trash the president.
But between Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson and Judge Andrew Napolitano,
I think the message is getting through regarding the outrageousness of this FBI agent stroke.
And this bad actor, this hitman for the FBI,
who happens oddly enough to be the FBI agent to whom General Flynn allegedly lied or has pled guilty to lying to.
But he is also the agent who interviewed Susan Rice and Cheryl Mills,
the two henchwomen for Hillary Rodham Clinton.
They both got immunity for whatever it was they said to the agent.
But there is no immunity for Judge, for General Flynn.
This really stinks to high heavens.
This very stroke is the man who changed the language in the final report to Comey that allowed Hillary to walk.
This is the man in charge of investigating whether our president's done something wrong.
The American people have to see through this canard,
but the president's lawyers are creating a false sense of security about this, Alex.
And this is what concerns me.
The president can yet save himself, but there is a deadly cabal headed his way.
And the people around him who have him in a cocoon aren't telling him the stark facts.
It's not incidental that after the president went to his palatial home in Palm Beach,
the exclusive Marlago Club, where he has an ultra-luxury private apartment
in this extraordinary, old-style Spanish masterpiece that he has completely refurbished.
And was able to mix with his friends and associates and have a freer access without his handlers everywhere.
He was told by General Kelly not to go to the dining room.
It would probably not be best, sir.
And he headed directly there.
And it was after that, Alex, that he posted those accurate anti-Islamic terrorist videos.
And he went on the attack against Joe Scarborough.
Coincidence?
I think not.
Let the president have his instincts.
He knows he's out to get him.
But I think that they are trying to, you know, fatten him up for the kill.
They're going to walk him right into the buzzsaw with this laid-back strategy.
But couldn't it backfire and be fired, Mueller?
Then that acts like something actually got covered up
instead of letting the ridiculous, made-up investigation continue
as more and more of the agents turn out to be Clinton operatives.
Because this is really hurting the Democrats right now.
I have to take a Marco Rubio moment.
Thank you.
Thank you, Senator Rubio.
No, I think the American people are starting to see through it.
But look, you have...
We haven't even gotten into the...
What's the chicanery that's going on in the 25th Amendment?
The plan B for the neocons and the two-party duop...
And that's the big one, because it's our own dynamic?
The message.
Sure, exactly.
Our own Derek McBreen put together a compilation where they have now come out
six, seven months after you first predicted it,
because you talked to the folks that were involved at the editorial meetings,
and that the new fraud would then be that he has dementia or Alzheimer's,
and they are now pushing that full tilt buggy for the 20th Amendment.
But first, let me come back.
Al Green, ladies and gentlemen, they just failed to impeach the president.
They just tried it in the House of Representatives.
We'll play the video straight ahead.
We'll play the video straight ahead.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you a lot of money
while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto-ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship,
because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years, because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto-ship,
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new auto-ship feature at InfoWareStore.com, this is a sure win.
10% off on auto-ship.
Win, win, win at InfoWareStore.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all auto-stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels. B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Up, up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory, and lethargists.
Secret 12, up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to InfoWareStore.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's InfoWareStore.com.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high-meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use Carnivore by InfoWare's Life.
Head to InfoWareStore.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWareStore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Crashing through the lives and disinformation, it's Alex Jones on the GCN Radio Network.
And we're waging war on corruption with Roger Stone. This is going to be a jam-packed two final segments here before War Room comes on.
In the next segment, we have a compilation of Roger Stone not predicting, breaking their next big push.
What was it, six, seven months ago? This was back in, like, February, that he'd talked to high-ups and that they were going to, in the newspapers,
that the next big hoax was going to be that Trump was seen on.
And remember, Project Veritas just got video of the Washington Post admitting the whole Russian thing's made up.
We've got Don Lemon admitting it. We've got the other folks there on CNN caught on video admitting all this.
But meanwhile, on top of Trump's big Israel announcement, House rejects Trump's impeachment resolution after Dim, representative Al Green,
forces vote with 364 voting to table it and 58 Democrats voting to move ahead.
So there you go. They know it's political suicide right now to move ahead with it, but they want the idea out there.
Here is Mr. Green.
Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, again, I am honored to be accorded the privilege of standing in the well of the Congress of the United States of America.
Mr. Speaker, the American poet Robert Frost penned a poem with the words, two roads diverged in the woods, and I took the one less traveled.
Mr. Speaker, in a metaphorical sense today, sometime afternoon, shortly after 12 o'clock, I will take the road less traveled.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that no one take this journey with me.
I am absolutely convinced that this is a road worth traveling, but I have not asked that others travel this road and will not.
Mr. Speaker, after 12 noon today, I will present articles of impeachment.
And there are many who want to know what's next, what will happen after there is a vote.
Mr. Speaker, I will satiate those concerns after the vote, but I will take the road less traveled.
And I believe that it will make all the difference. I yield back the balance of my time.
He will satiate.
Ladies and gentlemen, he knows he's not going to get the votes because he didn't.
So he acts like, please don't vote with me. I'm just introducing it as a publicity stunt, but don't worry.
I'll satiate you in the men's bathroom.
I mean, he sounds like a bubbling moron, Roger.
Look, I liked Al Green much better when he was singing gospel and R&B like love and happiness.
Is that really the same guy?
Oh, it's not the same guy. Pardon me. No, a little humor there.
This is a calculated publicity stunt approved by the House leadership. I guarantee it. They just want to introduce the idea.
We know what's coming next. The drumbeat of stories, promulgated by Joe Scarborough, promulgated by many talking heads on CNN,
that the president is non-compassmentist, that he has the early stages of Alzheimer's and he's crazy and he's doing crazy things.
Sadly, I think that the book by Corey Lewandowski and David Bossy, inadvertently or inadvertently, feeds this meme,
which is the theme of the 25th Amendment crowd. You see, the president can be removed from office by a majority of his cabinet
and a willing vice president who essentially sign on for the removal.
I'll stop you right there because when we come out in the next segment, we're going to play your predictions of this from resources
and then the media the last week harping on it and he'll have time to comment on that particular subject.
But let me just bring this up. I mean, talking to a lot of folks that know Trump, you know him well,
he's really nice, really hardworking, really cool until somebody screws up a whole bunch of times and he'll scream at people.
But most presidents, most generals, most people in stressful situations sometimes have yelled at people
and, you know, they describe him in this new book about to land so they've got the steamers steaming his pants while he's standing up.
Well, that's what happens when you're in national television as well before you go out on the stage.
I mean, I've been standing about to go on national stage and they're like steaming my pants. That's what goes on.
Not here, but like in old fashioned television, it's kind of going away.
They're doing your makeup and they're steaming your coat while you're in the dressing room and you're just a guest on a show.
So they take all these little things and turn it into this huge stuff. Let's just be honest about Trump.
He's nothing but genial and super nice and never even messes up a word when I've talked to him.
I mean, the guy's incredibly slick, but he does have an angry side. I mean, let's be honest about it.
He shows no signs, though, of being senile.
No, there's no question. It's a George S. Patton quality. He has a very violent temper in the sense that he does dramatic things when he's angry.
And yes, I've seen him dress people down who deserve to be dressed down, but then the storm passes and like Patton, he's back at the task of winning.
Look, this is this is all part and parcel of a gang that is advocated by Senator Corker keeps insisting he's insane.
Joe Scarborough keeps insisting he's insane.
They understand that if Mueller shoots and loses that Mike Pence could be tempted into a coup d'etat.
Now, if the president has been essentially removed by the vice president and majority of his cabinet, and there are many, many, many Bush quizzling votes against him there.
A hard vote count for the president, Alex, that I have conducted shows me the president with a solid four.
Three, I can't place and the balance of them like a rain show or Rex Tillerson or or or even Jeff sessions, who the president has certainly put on the hot spot could take him down.
It's not only is it not inconceivable, Ben Sass, Jeb Bush, Mitch McConnell's agents.
This is an active coup d'etat in the works. It's the establishment's plan B.
And there's let me raise this point and clearly they're moving more and more to plan B.
I think that signifies that they know the Mueller thing because it's they're being caught being so corrupt working for Hillary covering up for Hillary.
I think the Mueller thing's falling apart.
Now, privately two weeks ago, you told me no, it's still got some legs.
But two weeks later, I mean, don't you think it's starting to have the wheels come off?
Well, let me say this. I like Mike Pence.
I think that he has been a very loyal vice president, but there are two things we learned more recently.
One is that during the period right after Trump was assaulted in the Billy Bush tape on NBC, probably the darkest day of the campaign,
Trump called his running mate who was on the road and the vice president declined to take that call.
And he passed a message to Trump that said, I don't want to talk to you right now.
I have to sort out what, you know, how I feel about all of this.
This is at a time that the Republican elders led by Ryan supremus are going to him saying you must save the party.
Trump is doomed. We've got to take.
But he did make the right decision at that point.
I think it makes it easier the second and the third time.
Well, and we know that he was import tuned by the plotters.
What we don't know is for some period of time it appears that he entertained it.
So I don't know where he goes in the coup.
And that's key. So that shows Pence almost jumped ship that probably would have sunk Trump.
He is either going to be LBJ here or he is not. We'll find out.
But he needs to know we're watching him in a friendly way, right?
Well, I think the problem here is that one of his top aides I think is among those leaking Russian secrets to make the president look bad.
And that is of real research.
Now, you're right. I mean, Pence is a good guy overall, but he's definitely a weak link. We'll be back.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a longtime listener of InfoWars.
And I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the InfoWars.
It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me, but it says Won't Tread on Me.
And it's a big Deglo snake, Gadsden snake. And then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning t-shirt.
Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and an infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at infowars.com.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since Aboriginal and Biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowars.com.
Vitamin mineral fusion. Visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemister. We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
The amino acids that your body absolutely needs. In the history of infowars life, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival shield X2, super male vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured you're finding the tip of the spear in the info war.
At infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now before we sell out.
Discover global trends and global developments years before they happen right here on the Alex Jones show.
And let me tell you that liner is dead on target. I mean we know what we're talking about here. We do our research, we got our nose in the grindstone.
The story of Adon Salazar just went live on newswars.com, presidentplanet.com and infowars.com. It is incredible.
And this is just like these communist truth and reconciliation committees they have where they just get you to denounce yourself.
Video mayor cries after city council member refuses to acknowledge his white privilege.
This astonishing footage of a Minnesota shows the mayor of New Brighton breaking down into tears after one fellow council member refuses to acknowledge her white privilege.
I mean you might have privilege somewhere in negatives others. There's white people all over the world in different circumstances.
This is so racist and it's always white people pushing it and selling it as their political tool of control.
Now, here's Roger Stone. He first did it in February and then he set it again in March. However many months ago that was, eight months ago, that he talked to, he didn't give the sources, then he hadn't given the sources, but kind of the general area.
He told me, he said we can talk about it now, but it was talking to major newspaper writers who've been at editorial meetings just about what the next load of baloney would be if Russia failed.
There's mental illness, brain breaking down, neurological disorders, early onset of Alzheimer's, early onset dementia. Here is Roger Stone predicting it and then here's the mainstream media the last week.
This claimer right up front, they're going to say that this is a conspiracy theory, but it's the Stone poll truth. They are going to claim that Donald Trump has Alzheimer's, that it is progressive and that is progressing and that is the source of his insanity.
Both the New York Times and the Washington Post have new reports about the mind of Donald Trump, which is filled with things that are not true, that he spews both publicly and privately, leaving people in the White House to wonder how his mind actually works.
Everybody around Donald Trump knows he's not stable. Everybody around Donald Trump knows he's not stable now.
You mean all the neocons that kicked everybody out and then circled him and then just hate the stock market exploding and hate all the freedom and hate all the success. I mean, what a load of crap, Scarborough.
Let's continue.
Everybody.
Back it up 10 seconds. I'm sorry, Scarborough. Everybody knows that intern fell down and it bashed her brains out in your office. Just saying everybody. Sorry, go ahead.
Trump knows he's not stable now.
Everybody.
Unstable.
I think, honestly, it's time for members of Congress and the Cabinet especially to come to conclusions about this mountain of empirical evidence that the president is laboring under mental impairment.
He is still questioning the authenticity of President Obama's past certificates. I mean, Dana, I can't believe I'm asking this, but is there something seriously wrong about him?
I don't have somebody inside the White House that the New York Daily News says is mentally unfit, that people close to him say is mentally unfit.
Impossible. Oh, they all said he was going to lose the election too. Look at that weird blue font haircut he's got here. Here, continue.
That people close to him during the campaign told me at early stages of dementia. Now, listen, you can get mad at me if you want to.
You can say that's not okay to say.
When are we supposed to say this after the first nuclear missile goes?
Frightening that his behavior, his own behavior, raises questions about his fitness to serve and his grasp of reality.
By the way, Don Lemon completely detached from reality.
It makes me recall people who have early onset dementia.
Oh, so we're doing this now. It's okay to say the D word. I thought we were all just supposed to smile and pretend he was being colorful like Uncle Marty when he started wearing Kleenex boxes and shoes.
Well, I think it's another example of his being close to psychosis when he is stressed.
I think he has short-term memory loss. I think he maybe even has a touch of dementia maybe. I don't know.
That's Joy Behar that said that Trump was going to go to prison last week because he had Flynn during the campaign, Dr. Russians.
Of course, he pulled it right out of her big fat, ugly rear end, but that doesn't matter. That's where Mueller lives. Let's continue.
What's really concerning me is that there is no one.
Look at that guy.
Absolutely no one in the White House who can get him to stop talking.
The future ex-president of the United States of America is unstable. That is not my opinion. That is not the media's opinion.
No.
That is America's opinion.
Oh!
The prospect that the president of the United States is not fully in his right mind. I mean, let's just say it.
They talk to you like you're two years old.
It's not fully in touch with reality and it's worse.
Hey, how many Democrats are getting thrown out of the House of Senate right now?
The president of the United States is so unstable, is so volatile.
We love it.
Has a decision-making process that is so quixotic that he might order a nuclear weapons strike that is wildly out of step with U.S. national security interests.
When is this the right time to talk about a mentally unstable president in the White House and a nuclear showdown with another unstable madman in North Korea?
He's decompensating. That's a psychiatric term, but what it means in simple terms is he's losing his grip on reality.
This is what we mean when we say that somebody is becoming psychotic.
He's imagining he's president.
Psychotic.
It makes me recall people who are in the early stages of Alzheimer's.
America has spoken. He's unstable.
It is time for the American political media to do the same.
Resist.
Wow, what a load of horse manure.
And they just create these false consensus.
He will never be president. He will never be president.
He's 20 points behind the same thing.
Everyone agrees. Everyone agrees he's got Alzheimer's and dementia.
Everyone agrees. Did you hear that, Roger Stone?
Yes, absolutely. Alex, that's the necessary storyline for a 25th Amendment takedown.
This is all part of the plan. The mainstream media drives the narrative that he's crazy because he has eccentric behavior.
So did FDR. So did Dwight Eisenhower. So did Harry Truman.
So did Abraham Lincoln. So what?
He got to the top of this stack.
He's leading a new American Revolution that scares the Bejesus.
He's got 15 rabbits feet up his rear end or something.
This guy's crapping gold cuff links for everybody. And they're so pissed.
Well, exactly right. So just when the mainstream media is starting to maybe make some progress in their game of destruction,
the uranium one truth drops into the laps of the American people.
And what does it show that the three guys twisting his tail right now?
Those would be Mr. Mueller, Mr. Comey and Rod Rosenstein, the de facto attorney general of the United States,
are up to their teasters in the cover up of uranium one.
And these are the men trying to now take down the president.
A special prosecutor is the solution to the president's current conundrum.
A special prosecutor can be appointed.
And can he order sessions to do it?
Yes. You can tell from his tweets and some things that he said.
He doesn't know that.
His attorneys must have advised him that he cannot communicate or direct.
Because they claim there's a separation of powers. It is the executive. It is his purview.
Exactly. And therefore he cannot direct them on matters pertaining to Donald J. Trump.
But in this case, he should order sessions to appoint a special prosecutor.
Of uranium one, which he's not involved in exactly. That's the third way.
Don't sit there like Mueller.
Don't do so.
Don't don't firing, but just appoint the special prosecutor.
No, look, if sessions refuses to carry out a direct order, he has to be fired as Nixon fired Elliott Richardson.
That's the legal procedure. Then the decision would fall to Rosenstein.
Must recuse. Can't decide about whether a special prosecutor can look into himself.
Then it goes to the solicitor general, who I believe would do the president's will.
Hold on. Let's just both get this out here right now.
You're about to be in the war room.
I'm not going to kill myself. You're not going to kill yourself.
We've both never been happier. Great families, great children, great grandchildren.
We just love fighting the new world order. We're so happy because they do want to kill us.
They do want to shut us down. Let's get that out there.
And I want to say I'm not a racist and I have no white privilege.
I want everybody to have a great Christmas, no matter what color you are.
We all got red blood. I love you all.
And the same thing to you, Roger. Would you like to apologize for your white privilege?
Not at all. Alex, the new bureau here is terrific.
And it is only due to the fact that patriots go to the m4s.com store to do their Christmas shopping.
The t-shirts are on fire.
Everybody in my family is loaded up on those.
The savings are extraordinary.
And I got some brain force plus and I'm on auto ship now.
So congratulations on that.
I ask the info warriors.
Give us the backing we need. We are the tip of the spear.
Yes, sir. God bless you.
Rackham and Stackham, Roger Stone and Owen Shroyer coming up with the BreakingInfoWars.com news.
You must all denounce yourselves as racist or those that denounce you will start crying.
It's toddler time.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
Info wars life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
