This is our land, these are our people, the workers, the strikers, the builders, these are our people.
Who are they? They are the Dark Armies, the Dark Murdering Armies of the Honour, the atrocities.
The answer to 1984 is 1776. You're listening to the Alex Jimmy Show.
First off, we saw how phony all this new Flynn news was on Friday were proven right.
That it was a fake news story from ABC News that Trump had been caught lying about when he told Flynn to meet with the Russians.
It's all coming up today, but there is an internal war going on that's now going public.
It turns out the FBI and Mueller has been criminally investigated for 11 months.
They are preparing imminent indictments of Trump and others as I broke first Friday.
That's now in the news, but first let's go to this John Bowne report.
I saw the headlines Friday morning about Flynn was ordered by Trump to make contact with the Russians.
And then I began to read the ABC News report. I went, wait a minute, these transcripts from intercepts have been alluded to before from December of last year when he was the incoming president-elect.
And I said on air, I said, this is fake news at 11am when I went live.
I said, Drudge isn't fake. When I'm reading headlines off Drudge, he's just linking to the news.
But I said, look at the headlines on drugs. I said, that's fake. Flynn talked to them once he was the incoming national security advisor.
Look at that. Merry Christmas, Mr. Mueller. When he's not on tarmacs handing out uranium or when the FBI is not trying to cover up illegal Clinton attorney general meetings with the tarmac, why Mueller flips Flynn and gets him to plead guilty to lying to the FBI.
The report Flynn says Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians, feels President has abandoned him, prepared to testify against Trump family, White House staff.
Now that's what the media is telling us about this information. I followed all this in absolute detail.
How they illegally surveilled President-elect Trump. And then they said, oh, watch out. We've got the surveillance proving you clitted with the Russians. And Trump went really without a warrant.
And you demasked the information and you leaked it to the news. That's multiple crimes. They went, oh, no, no, no, no, we never did that.
Once he was president-elect, they suddenly went, we never did that. We never said that. No one ever spied on you. That's insane. We had that whole controversy.
So the minute I saw this and it said intercepts, well, I remember the congressional hearings about the intercepts that came months ago.
I remember all the reports and they just hope you get confused and all the minutiae and just tune out and just believe that, you know, Trump's been caught lying when it's all right there.
They've already testified on the demasking. They've testified on the files of court warrants. They did get a bunch of the stuff they didn't get. They just call it intercepts monitoring.
And then they go in and listen to it later. But if they didn't order direct wiretapping as they call it, which is still monitoring wiretapping the whole term, then they don't call it illegal surveillance just because you were being surveilled.
It's all semantical manipulation. And so I knew as soon as I read the news, not just from ABC but other big fake news outlets, that it was fake because they were talking about the intercepts that have already been in the news.
They've already had hearings on under oath. And I was like, oh my God, they're recycling it but just changing the date to five or six months previous to that in the middle of 2016, which is exactly what they did.
Planned and Trump deserve service matters for how good they did coming in as the president-elect, the national security advisor-elect, how good a job they were doing, how hard they were working.
It's just unprecedented how they're representing America and getting things done. Folks will be right back on the other side of this break with the bombshell news.
And it is bombshell. They are getting ready to indict the president. Watch. After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting-edge science, we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful, pro-digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better. And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance. But all of these are the very cutting-edge, top-of-the-line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price. When you purchase it at m4store.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center in the heart of the Resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Well, on Friday I laid it out. The fact that Mueller's kept jury of swamp things in the District of Criminals is preparing to claim that the president has obstructed justice and have a grand jury attempt to nullify the 2016
election, the political realignment and the burgeoning economic recovery. That's their stated goal. And you can see the writing on the wall. They want to get this going by the end of the year.
They've canvassed the Republicans, the Democrats have, saying, your boy is going to be gone by the new year. We, of course, broke that information. And knowing of their plan to roll out this fake investigation and exposing what frauds they are and exposing how staged it is, is critical to derailing that.
And now you see it's been happening. I know from White House sources that Trump's two personal lawyers continue to tell him you didn't do anything, you didn't obstruct, so you have nothing to worry about.
Just don't talk to Flynn. And Trump's done nothing wrong, so he's like, okay, I'm not worried about it. Then one of the lawyers on Friday tweets as if he's Trump, yes, the president knew that Flynn had lied.
So that's why he was fired. Well, back at the time we were told it was because he reportedly got crosswise with the vice president.
And that that's why he was fired, but not lying to the FBI. So again, you have the Democrats embedded with the Russians to an unbelievable level.
You have this whole collusion investigation going on for over a year and a half, 11 months officially with Mueller, and there's nothing there.
All the NSA transcripts, all the spying, all the surveillance, you see a president working hard, you see his national security advisor working hard.
So now they're changing it to, oh, the Logan Act, you were talking to foreign officials in an unofficial capacity.
Well, that goes for members of Congress and people under the president who aren't on sanctioned trips, and the Democrats constantly violate it, Republicans violate it, but Trump isn't violating it because he's the president reaching out to foreign leaders.
There's nothing there. They're acting like the president gets up in the morning, he's committed a crime.
But here's the big news. The DOJ's been investigating the FBI criminally, Mueller and others for 11 months.
House Intel chairman draws up contempt charges against FBI after Stonewall.
Republicans prepare for war with FBI DOJ to file contempt action over anti-Trump bias.
Dershowitz, no case for obstruction of justice against Trump.
Continuing, is President Trump's legal team preparing for an imminent obstruction of justice charge?
Is the question a lot of mainstream media is asking.
And here you've got NBC News.
Diane Feinstein, Senate Republican probe building obstruction case against Trump.
That came out on Sunday.
What did I tell you on Friday?
It's always been about obstruction.
Not that Trump did anything wrong.
Not that Trump ever colluded.
Not that Trump ever sold out U.S. interest.
Everything the Democrats have done in spades, in triplicate, at legendary level.
They're going to claim the president talking to Comey going, Flynn's a great guy, leave him alone.
I hope if he did do something, you'd go easy on him.
That's what a mom would say to a judge if their son got caught reckless driving or stealing pumpkins out of the pumpkin patch.
Judge, I hope you can go easy on him.
Except Trump's the president. He could have ordered Comey to do nothing.
So that's all they've got.
And we've got Comey in Congress saying the president didn't obstruct in his opinion.
But now they're trying to walk that back and change it.
And these are the swamp things.
These are the unelected individuals who now are hanging their hat on obstruction
and hanging their hat on the Logan Act when there's no evidence of either one.
Instead, there's Comey and Mueller and others covering up for the Clintons to engage in legendary paper play,
not just with Russia, but with over 100 other countries and corporations in the Clinton Foundation.
So if they could maneuver this in the media and maneuver this in the culture and somehow sell the idea that this is real, they're going to go with it.
By the way, ABC News made the strategic decision an hour after the indictment was already out
saying specifically Trump ordered Flynn to make contact with the Russians when he was president-elect,
which is completely kosher and normal.
And he should be impeached if he wasn't making contact with the Russians once you're president-elect.
Because they got nuclear weapons.
They had their head of their investigative bureau, Brian Ross, went with what he knew he needed to do.
But if he's going to be a sacrificial lamb and get suspended for four weeks, so be it.
He takes one for the team.
He goes out there and he says, this says, and my sources say, he did this six months before the president was even president-elect,
to specifically wound the president and charge up the troops and have hype all over the nation
where the people buying into this say C were vindicated so they finally got a shot in the arm.
Because it doesn't matter it got retracted by the evening.
I had people at the grocery store and a restaurant on Saturday come up and tell me, F you, you Russian agent.
And they're on the street.
I get the emails.
I see it on Facebook, Twitter.
They're saying this is real.
They don't care.
So that shows you how dirty these individuals are.
I mean, just look at Joy Behar on the view in ecstasy, it already been out an hour that this had broken,
but they send out the aid, they send out the producer to hand her a card and then she reads it and they are in ecstasy.
The other harpies, the other banshees are just in ecstasy with their disinfo and their lies that, oh, during the campaign,
Trump ordered Flynn to make contact with the Russians.
And they're still running news articles on the Huffington Post and other places saying it's real.
They're not retracting it on the Huffington Post.
They're not retracting it.
No, they're still passing those videos around.
And so low information voters can sit there in a restaurant or in a grocery store to the Trump family or myself or anybody else,
then walk over and say, I knew you a Russian agent.
You're going to go to prison.
And they have congressional hearings and say it about me, too, with no evidence.
They say, Imple Wars gets its news from the Russians and follows their orders.
I come in here and look at hundreds of articles, video clips, look at everything.
The Russians have very little influence on me.
British news has a much bigger influence.
That just means why I'm reading news.
It's just crazy, but they don't care.
They're the globalists. They're the outside power and they're getting ready to try to remove the president.
So here's Joy Behar.
Here's Joy Behar celebrating the disinfo that they're sharing.
Three days later, still on the Internet, they don't care. Here it is.
Breaking news.
Oh, my God.
Oh, breaking news.
ABC News Brian Ross is reporting.
Michael Flynn promised full cooperation to the Mueller team and is prepared to testify that as a candidate,
Donald Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians.
Yay!
We're going to destroy the recovery.
We're going to arrest the president.
We're going to have a civil war.
We're going to destroy America.
We're going to kill the country.
Get your bug assault today.
Hello, Mr. Anderson, the NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Excuse me, sir. Could you please take a picture of my family and me with my cell phone?
Sure, Mrs. Anderson.
Smile for the camera.
Too bad hackers never get proper permission to access your cell phone or computer camera.
Anyone is or could be susceptible to illegal spying.
That's why VirtualShield.com has developed Identisave,
a new security software that blocks camera and microphone access from unwanted spies.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Hey, did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years
and still maintain its nutrition and flavor?
That's right.
Now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to infoorstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology
that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something.
It is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating,
you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Right Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value
and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for?
Check it out right now at infoorstore.com.
We need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
We've got a Christmas message from the president that upset a lot of Democrats over the weekend.
They're so bigoted, they're so anti-Christian that even the Germanic traditions, the Tannenbaum
and things, they want that type of stuff banned if they can.
And obviously until kids, they can't hand out Christmas cards at public schools because
there's a separation of church and state.
No, the school shouldn't have an official religion, but you can hand out whatever you want.
So these are authoritarian dirtbags who want to shut down free speech across the board,
but they're failing.
And people like Joy Bayhard last week, The Huffington Post and hundreds of other publications
will not retract their reports about her.
Celebrating the fake news that Flynn was ordered to meet with the Russians before the president
was elected, which could be some type of collusion perhaps.
So the story's been retracted.
It was fake on purpose by ABC News.
But The Huffington Post and hundreds of other publications I noticed over the weekend are
still sharing the video and the articles like it's true.
Merry Christmas, we're going to give you fake news.
Merry Christmas, we're going to bankrupt the country.
Yay, we're going to stop that recovery.
We're going to kick off a constitutional crisis.
Yay, over made up Russia garbage with a corrupt former FBI director who is submerged in Russian
corruption and killed the criminal investigation of Hillary Clinton and Bill Clinton and Uranium One
and who was involved with corrupt Russian companies in huge criminal payouts where he
didn't even invest in companies but got money back.
Mueller is a horrible corrupt pig who protected the Clintons, protected Obama,
took the radical Islamic groups off the terror list.
He's basically a Wahhabist, just like Brennan and the rest of them and he's a monster.
So here's Joy Behar, Merry Christmas, celebrating the lie.
Oh, and the producer walks out the hands of the card and says, we've got breaking news.
Yeah, more fake news that now their low information voters are still sharing this,
still sharing all the celebration clips and then when they cuss at you on the street you go,
hey, that's fake.
Oh, shut up, Russian.
You're going to prison.
Hey, actually, that's not true.
Shut up.
I'll throw hot coffee on you.
I'm going to tell you F off, you don't talk to me.
I'm a God.
We're going to screw the country over.
You got it, Jones.
You got it, Trump.
You got it, America.
We don't want the facts.
Here's Joy Behar.
That's himself.
Breaking news.
Oh, my God.
Oh, breaking news.
ABC News, Brian Ross is reporting.
Michael Flynn promised full cooperation to the Mueller team and is prepared to testify
that as a candidate, Donald Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians.
Yes!
Yes!
Wow!
Yes!
But again, a celebrating, even if it was true, celebrating wild eyed.
But none of it is.
And that's what they do.
They celebrate hoaxes.
And the low-information voters celebrate being manipulated and lied to.
And they're upset the economy's roaring back.
They're upset optimism's roaring back.
They're upset small businesses are coming back.
They're upset.
What are they going to do to fly over country if it can't be bankrupted and controlled?
And here's what they're really upset about.
Again, the president, Melania, with one of their Christmas messages on Friday.
Throughout the weekend, there was just, this is bigoted.
This is hateful.
Obama only said holidays.
Trump said Christmas.
This is a cult trying to tell us what words to use and overthrow traditionalism.
The opposite of wanting to have diversity.
The opposite of wanting to have tolerance.
It's just, just, just flagrant, frothing speech control, ne'er-do-well, Nimrod control freak.
Here it is.
It's not what we have.
It's about who we are.
Each one of us is a child of God.
That is the true source of joy this time of the year.
That is what makes every Christmas merry.
And now as the president of the United States,
it's my tremendous honor to finally wish America and the world a very merry Christmas.
And there is the main triggering event, official White House video.
Now, if you go to CNN or you go to NBC, if you go to the entertainment division of NBC,
it doesn't matter if it's Saturday Night Live or it doesn't matter if it's NBC News or CNN,
entertainment or non-entertainment, it's Trump's a failure.
He never got anything done.
He's a moron.
He's on his way out.
That was the CNN headline.
Mainly it's one accomplishment, tax cuts,
but right as the Mueller investigation gets shorn up and shown to be credible.
Totally incredible.
But they have to admit the one success, the one success,
killing TPP, renegotiating NAFTA and GATT,
the economy roaring back, cutting all these regulations,
the optimism, I'm not going to go into all of it,
70% reduction in illegals coming across,
but those aren't successful things, the globalists.
But they just constantly try to kill exuberance and kill confidence
and kill the economy and control everything.
They're just a bunch of sour pus, killjoy saboteurs
when you officially go in a war
and you try to demoralize the other side with transmissions into their country.
That's what this is.
The mainstream media, the globalist,
their whole system is classic demoralization.
It's 100% classic tactics to break the will of a people.
And so when we're watching all this, remember that,
and I know most of you know that.
It's why this broadcast is enemy number one of the globalists,
not because of me, but because of the guests and the sources
and the listenership and the viewers
and the activist audience that is interfaced with us,
that is aware of how stuff works,
that is horrifying to the globalist.
But not just the fact that we understand their game plan
and how to counter it, but that we also have will
and that we're confident and that we've got God
and we're not going to back down, we're not going to give up,
we're not going to go away.
And now that we're tasting major victory,
the fires of liberty are going from roaring to raging.
So I'll say it again, Merry Christmas to everybody.
And we're going to come back and break down the serious news, though,
on so many fronts and the Democrats getting ready
to be the Grants that stole the American and global recovery.
Stay with us.
Hey, Daniel Bremen, why new manna, storeable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong, independent families to endure what's ahead,
and we take this charge seriously. We got options, organic,
no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today. Call 888-597-0-775.
888-597-0-775.
Online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com, www.powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead. That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance
while you're still alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance
to grow your money with certainty and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties.
Call Life Benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000. That's 702-660-7000.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick.
I'm a long-time listener of N4s, and I just wanted to say
that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the N4.
It might seem like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts
that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me,
but said it says, Won't Tread on Me, and it's a big Deglo snake,
Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag,
infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people
and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning t-shirt.
Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger
with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at infowars.com.
Up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression,
poor memory, and lethargy.
Secret 12, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy
by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning
of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain
and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
I'm so excited.
The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle,
two-month servings filled to the brim,
filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic,
but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
And frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people
$100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formula,
working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body
has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com
and your purchase fugs the operation.
This is a heart and brain pill.
This is a heart and brain pill.
Let me see your doubt, walking so proudly here.
Once you provoke her, rattling over her tail.
Never begins it, never wants to engage.
Never surrenders, showing the face of race.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're broadcasting worldwide.
I'm your host, Alex Jones.
And I've got a special report coming up
how the mainstream media is demonizing
and attacking Alabamans
because they're brainwashing against Judge Roy Moore's
constituents, or would-be constituents, isn't working.
And so you see the disgusting hatred
that the establishment has of flyover country,
especially the south, which they see the flyover country
of the flyover country.
So that's going to be coming up a little bit later today.
Also, we're going to get into the historical facts.
Is the president truly above the law?
Well, the answer is no.
But is the president above this type of obstruction of justice
that they're specifically talking about
when he's in charge of the Justice Department?
And the answer is absolutely.
Because he's got judicial privilege
and executive privilege to not have to tell people
everything he's doing and everything that he's up to
so he can choose what he wants to
and what he doesn't want to tell people.
It's really just that simple.
And then again, it's up to the voters
to hold him accountable or the House of Representatives
to impeach.
That's where they get the indictment.
Then the Senate is where they have the trial.
That's the only way.
Because you'd have the courts always at some county
or city or state level or federal level.
You'd have some hijacked group run by some out-of-control
arrogant swamp monster like Robert Mueller.
And they're going to decide to get a grand jury
that's political to take the president out.
A president would never stay in power.
They would be removed politically.
Take Travis County, here where Austin,
the city of Austin is based.
They famously have indicted hundreds of prominent Republicans
in the last 50, 60 years
and get convictions that are almost always overturned.
Tom DeLay is a great example.
So that's an example of how they can use
the District of Columbia swamp monsters
or the Travis County system
to politically throw out tentacles of control
and get away with a lot of crazy stuff.
So I'm going to go to this report here
that breaks all this down in a moment.
Then I'm going to come back from break
and get into is President Trump's legal team
preparing for imminent obstruction of justice charges?
We're also going to look at the tax reform,
the House and Senate version.
And we're also then going to look at the largest
ever military drill to simulate war with North Korea
that's going on this week.
Also, Odinga advisor arrested on suspicion of inciting violence.
That's Obama's cousin, the big Islamist.
So that's a window into Obama.
We're going to get into that report as well.
And we're also going to open the phones up
and take your phone calls.
But again, I'm your host, Alex Jones, newswars.com,
infowars.com and prisonplanet.com are our main sites.
And more and more, they're trying to censor those.
So when you spread the articles and spread the videos,
it really does get around the censors
and helps us win in the info war.
So great job, listeners and viewers, please keep it up
and plug our local MNFM affiliates.
But here is the report.
71% of Alabama Republicans triggered by the left
or have they triggered the left?
Here it is.
A new CBS poll was released about the Alabama Senate race
and lo and behold, 71% of Alabama Republicans
believe the allegations against Roy Moore are false.
And those who believe this also believed that the Democrats
and the media are behind these allegations.
It's also important to note that this CBS poll also revealed
that Roy Moore is leading the Senate race in Alabama
at 49%, whereas his opponent, Doug Jones, is at a measly 43%.
To nobody's surprise, these poll findings sparked
a massive liberal temper tantrum on Twitter.
In fact, the 71% of Alabama Republicans Twitter storm had begun.
I'm sorry if this is rude and yet it needs to be said.
71% of Alabama Republicans are stupid
and they wonder why people from Alabama get stereotype
because stereotype is true.
Look, this goes to show you that 71% of Alabama Republicans
also have an IQ below 71.
Funny how the numbers worked out on that one.
Is this the same poll that determined that 71%
of Alabama Republicans are idiots?
We're going to see who's feeling like an idiot
after the election results are in.
71% of Alabama Republicans are white trash with no morals.
I think it is more accurate to say that 71% of Alabama Republicans
don't know what the big deal is
since they have all left with someone underage
at least seven times in their life.
71% of Alabama Republicans believe that an allegation
is the term for a group of alligators.
Oh, you totally destroyed them.
For real though, you actually think that?
71% of Alabama Republicans are the direct result of inbreeding.
71% of Alabama Republicans are also married
to their 14-year-old cousins.
71% of Alabama Republicans evidently still eat dirt
when they're pregnant.
It looks like 100% of liberals will be eating their words
after the election results come in.
71% of Alabama Republicans have family trees
with very few branches.
In related news, 71% of Alabama Republicans
are the offspring of brother and sister.
In other related news, liberals are a bunch of condescending
assholes.
These 71% of Alabama Republicans are the reason
I can't stop in Alabama next year.
I have two kids and I know they'll just get raped there.
To the 29% of people living in Alabama who still have
some humanity, leave while you can,
especially if you have children.
There is no hope for the other 71%.
Yes liberals, please leave out of the rural areas
and move back to the shithole cities
that you guys love to run into the ground.
71% of Alabama Republicans just verified
what have always thought of Southern Christians.
71% of Alabama Republicans are already terrible people
so to see them supporting a terrible person
because of a non-existent being called God
is telling us what we already know.
The South is stupid.
Ooh, stupid.
Non-existent God.
Well let's talk about non-existent evidence against Roy Moore.
So I guess supposedly 71% of Alabama Republicans
believe Roy Moore isn't a child molester
even when there's a mountain of documented evidence.
By mountain of evidence, do you mean a yearbook signing?
Don't you think if there was a mountain of evidence
you'd have enough to criminally prosecute
or even civilly sue him?
Dear liberals, screaming insults
at likely Alabama voters is working.
Moore's Senate is now up 3.2% and 2.5% this morning.
In real clear politics, poll averages,
please keep up the good work.
To the liberals mocking 71% of Alabama Republicans,
how well did insulting Trump supporters work for you?
I'm so excited. The new product at m4warslife.com
in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim,
filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic
that doesn't have any stimulants in it
but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw
medical doctors prescribing to their patients
but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people
$100, $200 for the formulae
and I came up with our own formula
working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglonone to it
which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones
in your glands, it is amazing.
Red pill now available at m4warslife.com
and your purchase fuzz the operation.
MRX essential oils can help balance your sleep schedule
and realign your sleep cycle.
These essential oils are an inexpensive and effective way
to bring aromatherapy into your home.
Experience the benefits of what nature can do for you
with sense to help you relax and unwind.
When life has you feeling down,
the sense of each of our essential oils
can help you boost your mood.
When using MRX essential oils,
there's no easier way to diffuse fragrances
than with this essential oils scent diffuser pod.
Experience the power of aromatherapy in any room of your home
with MRX essential oils.
Headaches are a major inconvenience
but essential oils can help eliminate headaches
and help reduce stress and anxiety.
When you're hard at work and need a boost
in your mental performance,
remember to use MRX essential oils
to help increase your comprehension and memory potential.
Find now and get what will soon become
your favorite essential oil products
at infowarstore.com.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind,
super blue fluoride-free products.
InfoWarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend
with iodine and nano-silver designed to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil
or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste
and watch features natural oils and ancient ingredients
used since aboriginal and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride,
our super blue line is floated with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds
that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste
are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine
at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem
that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food
and water and beverages in my system,
but right now we're dealing with massive parasites,
which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now, with all the refugees spreading disease around,
we have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff we said.
There's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in
because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarstore.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff
that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarstore.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir.
All right, folks.
Here's what's going to happen next hour.
I'm going to open the phones up to people that disagree
with myself, President Trump,
with folks that believe the Russia narrative.
And I know being on over 200 radio stations
and some cable and TV stations
and having giant amounts of people watching us online
and seeing the trolls on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube,
then this is your shot to call in unscreened
other than where you're calling from,
and obviously that you disagree,
and we will get you on air next hour.
Now, we're also going to take calls,
just from folks in general,
to tell us what are you going to do
if they indict Trump, the District of Columbia,
a literal swamp grand jury
led by the Swamp King,
Mr. Russia Collusion Kingpin,
Tarmac Meeting, Mr. Uranium,
Robert Mueller.
What are you going to do if they do that,
and how do they think they're going to get away with it
when Trump's so popular and none of it's true?
And Mueller is now under, by the way,
I should make a bigger deal out of this,
Mueller has been under criminal investigation,
so has Comey, so were their aides,
and now that's breaking that they've had an 11-month
Inspector General investigation
of the rogue Democrat run,
Clinton crime machine run Democratic party.
Now, people are sitting there saying,
you know, the FBI's been really damaged,
and how dare Trump come out and say
the FBI's of a bad organization.
Trump said it's never had less credibility,
and that he hopes it gets its credibility back.
We're not saying everybody in the FBI's bad.
That's stupid.
The point is, is that at the top,
the Clintons over the last 20 years
filled that sucker under Obama,
and under their eight years as well,
16 years with a lot of really bad people.
And now, Nunes is looking at criminal contempt
for the FBI not giving him information.
This is really building towards a head,
and it's going to be a constitutional crisis.
So, A, do you think they're really going to do it?
Because they've got the indictment of Flynn.
We knew they had the indictment of Manafort
months before they did, we told you,
because we have the sources.
And the word is, they've got the grand jury
ready to indict the president
with the obstruction stuff.
And that's why they keep putting it out in the news
that, oh, his tweet showed this,
and his tweet showed that, no, his lawyer says this.
So, they're gearing up right now.
The question is, do they have
the WAVOs to do this?
And are they thinking about what it's going to trigger?
I mean, this isn't Nixon in the middle of a second term,
they're doing this to, who they've caught
at least doing something.
This is the president who's done nothing.
They have the NSA illegal wiretap transcript intercepts.
It shows the opposite.
So, now they admit, oh, it's not collusion,
it's obstruction, and it's violating the Logan Act.
And there's none of that either.
The president and his national security advisor
can meet with anybody publicly
or secretly whenever they want.
That's the executive branch.
That's what it does.
The president could have a secret project
building secret weapons out in the desert,
and we wouldn't know about it
just like the Manhattan Project.
So, they're trying to nullify the votes
of the American people.
They're trying to obstruct the return of our republic.
Now, sometimes we get sarcastic callers.
When I call for callers that disagree,
and you can always call them if you disagree.
It's that if you really, really disagree
and you really think that I'm a Russian agent,
you really think Trump's a Russian agent,
you really think I should be censored,
you really think that Trump's done something wrong,
and you're upset about what's happening to the economy,
whatever it is, I want to hear from you
about your perspective
and how you can defend all the continued fake news
about Trump and Russia
that they've put out over and over again.
Because remember, back in December and January,
they said, oh, we've got all the intercepts.
We've got the NSA wiretaps as the old term,
but that's not what they are.
We have all the recordings of Trump colluding with the Russians,
so watch out, it's all going to come out.
And Trump went, well, that's illegal.
Plus, I didn't do that,
but the fact that you're leaking intercepts
and they're illegal intercepts
and you've unmasked public figures and U.S. citizens,
you're going to go to jail.
So they went, oh, we never said that.
We never said we had intercepts.
That's insane. You're crazy. Alex Jones is crazy.
Remember, specifically, they claimed I made it up
because I had a memory
and had thousands of news articles where they'd said it,
and I was showing the news articles on air
saying, look how dumb they think you are.
Really, all this show has is a memory.
And so you read the transcripts,
you read what Trump's doing,
and it sounds like you've got the ace of spades in there or something
really getting stuff done,
which we've already seen the country come roaring back
and respect for the nation
and so many things there,
and they're trying to obstruct it and block it.
Do they have any idea?
Can they think two feet in front of their nose,
one inch in front of their nose?
Can they think about the next steps that happen
if they assassinate Trump
or they have the fake grand jury indict Trump?
Then they'll create the illusion
that he's supposed to go to jail or step down
and, oh, the president's not responding
to the grand jury's subpoena.
The president's not responding to show up
because he's not supposed to
or any two-bit grand jury
or jury could do something like this under control.
It's its own branch of government.
You don't see local courts
indicting the Congress, do you?
The entire Congress, you can't do that.
Well, with the president, he's the entire executive.
This is a power play.
It's illegal.
It's sickening.
So the question is, if you get what you want,
the embarrassment of the president,
people that have been threatened with jail time,
lying about the president,
and then having the indictment in the House
and the trial in the Senate
on a giant nothing burger,
when they're the ones in bed with Russia,
where do you see this going?
What do you think is going to happen?
Do you think they're going to indict him before Christmas?
Is what they're currently discussing doing,
according to my sources, in D.C.?
And, hell, you've seen the Democrats come out and say,
he's about to be indicted.
I can quit my job now.
We saw Overman do that last week.
They believe they're going to indict him before Christmas.
I'm not saying that's going to happen.
I'm saying, right now, they're saying they intend to.
And they're behaving like they mean to do it.
Like sticking their finger in a light socket.
So here's the toll-free number to join us.
877-789-Alex.
877-789-2539.
And people that disagree will go to the head of the line.
877-789-2539.
First-time callers, by the way.
Agree? Disagree? You're welcome.
I want to hear from you. 877-789-2539.
And please, I don't want any joke callers, okay,
that call up and act like they're a liberal.
There are real ones out there.
Some of them can actually form sentences on the street.
All they say is, F you, we're going to get you, Russian agent.
Well, I'm trying to give those folks a chance to call in person to person.
And actually, on a platform, because nowhere Owen Shroyer goes,
nowhere Millie Weaver goes, or any of our reporters on the street,
99% of these people will not talk to us.
They will not discuss anything with us.
It's crazy. They have no intellectual argument.
Here's your chance to prove me wrong.
877-789-Alex.
Now, briefly, there's only a minute to break.
We have new specials this week.
DNA Force has been back in stock for a little while.
It is going to sell out in the next few weeks.
We may not have any more for another two months,
because we're doing a reformulation right now,
because of availability of some of the things that are in it.
The BioPQQ, the CoQ10, all of it.
It's 33% off this flagship product.
Other leading competitors are two or three times the costs that ours is,
because of markup.
At $99, it is an incredible deal,
because you're talking $50-something a product in there.
I mean, it's amazing what it does for your cells,
for nerve regrowth, for energy, it's patented, it's documented.
DNA Force is amazing, but it's very, very hard to source and produce,
because it is such a complex formula,
and that's why it's sold out half the time.
Well, despite that, I'm selling it.
33% off infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com,
and we also have other new specials this week.
50% off on SuperBlue, fluoride-free,
toothpaste with iodine and colloidal silver in it.
That's at infowarstore.com,
and vitamin mineral fusion is amazing.
It's 50% off as well.
Your funding isn't just needed.
It's critical, so thank you for your support at infowarstore.com.
And feel the rush without the crash.
Rain Force Plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation and new tropics,
and now we've added a brand new ingredient
called Black Pepper Fruit Extract
that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12
and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch
and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Rain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now
at infowarstore.com.
We carefully select pure and simple ingredients
to create formulas that are certified USDA
made with organic.
Our mission is to offer you
everyday organic household products to enhance your life.
Truly feel the difference by going organic natural
without compromising on quality.
Feel good about using EmRick's Essentials.
Start saving money and stop exposing yourself
and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarstore.com and learn more
about the new EmRick's Essentials line of organic products.
That's infowarstore.com.
Alex Jones, the far-right conspiracy theorist
who is apparently...
Alex Jones.
Scum, Russian scum.
Until war comes to mind.
Reputation's amazing.
I will not let you down.
You will be very, very impressed, I hope.
Alright, if you just joined us,
I've given the phone number out
for people that disagree and really think
that we're under Russian control,
that I'm getting orders from the Russians,
that I'm getting funding from the Russians,
that Trump is, and that there's proof there.
I can't live on air even saying this.
This is so ridiculous, but
it makes me angry just to say it,
because it's like you're welcome to call in
and ask if I'm a violent player from China.
It just has no connection to who I am.
But that's the whole narrative
by the globalists that have hijacked the country.
They're the foreign multinational force.
But I want to challenge you.
Are you proud of what Mueller's done?
Are you proud of the fact that there's nothing in any of this?
Trump's done nothing to the media resorts
to hoax headlines that Flynn has agreed
to testify against Trump that he was ordered
during the campaign to meet with Russia.
We've got him! We've got him!
We're going to kill him!
Let's cue up Joy Bayhard again.
You can't play that enough.
And then you realize, none of it's true,
and these are the foreign globalists
that have hijacked our country,
and here they are betting against America
celebrating, hoping they can kill the recovery.
So I want to ask folks,
what are you things going to happen if they have their way?
They have to have the House vote to indict the President,
and this whole investigation has been discredited.
And so I don't see them being able to do it.
I don't see it working, but they don't care.
They're like piranhas just rushing headlong.
They're getting more and more violent.
They're calling for more and more violence.
So I'm asking our listeners, too,
what do you think they're planning?
Why do you think they're so arrogant?
Because they have nothing, except on them.
And what should we do to expose them?
Well, I know this.
Congressman Nunes, I really like him.
He's exposing their criminality,
talking about criminal contempt charges.
We now learn the Justice Department for 11 months
has been investigating Mueller and these political FBI agents
and their activities,
and they were about to release that info.
That's why Mueller leaked it ahead of time.
So it's all starting to come out.
And the fact that the economy has been stabilized
is the main reason they think they can't get rid of Trump.
And that's why they're trying to get rid of the economy,
but they're trying to say the President has accomplished anything
and the President's a loser,
ignoring all the facts to kill confidence.
And so that's really it.
If they can kill confidence,
and if they can kill the economy,
and if they can kill this recovery,
they believe they can string this Russia baloney out long enough
to finally get control of the House
so they can start the impeachment of the President,
which itself will lead to a giant train wreck
and a civil war in their own words.
But let's go out to break with Joy Behar again.
I'm going to come back and go right to your phone calls.
Let's go back to the cell.
Breaking news.
Oh, my God.
Oh, breaking news.
ABC News, Brian Ross is reporting.
Michael Flynn promised full cooperation to the Mueller team
and is prepared to testify that as a candidate,
Donald Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians.
Yes!
We're going to screw this country over good.
Yes, on America.
Yeah.
Let's report some fake news.
Oh, man.
You know, I've been really upset about all this
because this is serious stuff.
And Info Wars is the center of it.
You're at the center of it.
But now I've really been analyzing this.
We're going to win.
We're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years
because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products
that you need each month.
Just go to infowarsstore.com,
select your favorite product or products,
click on auto ship,
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win.
And with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at infowarslife.com,
free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock
when you sign up for auto ship.
Okay.
If you just tuned in,
we've gotten into the second hour.
I'm Alex Jones, your host,
and I have issued a challenge.
I want Democrats or liberals or mainline Republicans,
whatever you call yourselves, mainstream media junkies
to call in and tell me the evidence
that I'm involved with Russia that Trump is
and that you think Mueller's doing a good job.
I mean, explain to me with a straight face
because they have congressional hearings
saying that I'm a Russian agent with no proof.
This is unprecedented.
McCarthy never did anything like that
when he had evidence on people.
I've told Congress I want to testify.
I'd love it.
Because most of those Democrats have been paid off
by foreign governments, most of them not China,
I mean, not Russia, but China.
So I'd love to get in a hearing with them
and tear them up, the little traders.
But instead, they just sit back and claim
that Trump's this and Flynn's that
and Alex Jones is this and our whole movement
are just a bunch of boobies, a bunch of rubes,
a bunch of schmucks, a bunch of Marx,
a bunch of nincompoop moron suckers
who just were bamboozled by the Russians
to want to get President Trump elected.
And then, oh, it's so horrible now that the Russian agent
is elected, the economy's running back,
the military's getting stronger,
the borders are secured.
I mean, you think the Russians would do that?
I mean, wow, the Russians really are our friends.
And I watched this morning
because I got up at 3.30 in the morning, couldn't sleep.
I watched the last few months
of Saturday Night Live's opening live monologues.
And in every monologue, they say,
they had one with the Vice President Pence
and he's in a meeting talking to folks
and he says, they're like, tell your boss this.
And he goes, I can't tell our boss, Vladimir Putin, that.
And then the studio audience laughs.
Or like, Mr. President, we need you to get this done.
He's like, I don't know, I've got to call Putin first.
That's supposedly funny over and over again
that Trump's getting orders from Putin.
And then they had a New York Times article,
but we had a whole bunch last week,
saying chances are Trump's controlled by Putin.
I mean, it's one thing to have senile, crazy Nancy Pelosi
or Maxine Waters up there saying the idea for the swamp
and the idea Trump didn't come up with that,
Putin gets on the phone and puts it in his ear.
That is ridiculous.
But nevertheless, despite the fact the Democratic Party
is up to their eyeballs with all this Russian collusion,
they just keep saying anybody that opposes them
as a Russian agent, including Tucker Carlson,
Senator Rand Paul, myself, Matt Drudge, DrudgeReport.com,
Breitbart, who else?
Well, the entire Trump administration.
Yeah, there it is, odds are, Russia owns Trump.
I mean, oh, odds are, I'm a monkey's uncle.
Odds are when this writer, Michael Goldberg, sits down,
he craps out Tiffany Cufflinks.
Odds are at the end of every rainbow is a pot of gold
and a lucky charms creature.
So this is your chance to set me straight
and they tell me that nobody's calling in that really disagrees.
So Ali was asking, can they just slightly disagree?
Yeah, as long as you're serious, tell me how I'm a Russian agent,
how Trump's a Russian agent or how we work in collusion
or how I get my info from the Russians.
You think I get anything from the Russians?
What I do have is probably ADHD
and I've just got too much news here to cover
to make my head want to explode.
So I want to get this out front,
but also ask regular listeners,
what happens if they do indict Trump from the swamp,
from the kangaroo grand jury out of DC with Mueller
and then you've got all this collusion with Mueller
and the Clintons for real with Russia,
it will force real criminal investigations of the Clintons
that will bring them down, but they're so arrogant
and they've got so many people dug in in the Justice Department,
they believe they can weather that storm,
somehow get Trump in trouble for non-existent Russia collusion
while they're getting hundreds of millions of dollars
from the Russians and transferring our strategic uranium
and more to them.
So that's the question, how does all that work out?
And it really hit me when I was asking the question earlier today
when I first gave the number out last segment,
if they can't retake the House,
they're not going to get the indictment
for impeachment to have the trial in the Senate
and they don't have a chance in hell
and if they don't get the recovery scuttled,
if they can't beat our recovery, if they can't wreck that,
they're not going to get the House.
And so they don't have a very good chance of executing this,
but here's the problem.
They could cause a civil war or they could kill the president
and they're making every indication and every noise
and every activity and every signature,
every wavelength, every indicator
that they are planning to kill the president
or have a palace coup under the 25th Amendment
and declare that he's mentally ill,
which we first broke nine months ago,
they were going to start and now you see them doing it.
And just like Project Veritas,
just got more video last week inside the Washington Post
where they're going, listen, there is no Russian stuff,
but we're ordered to make it up.
This thing's a total hoax.
You got CNN saying the same thing in undercover videos.
Well, in the same kind of meetings we learned,
Roger Stone learned from the New York Times
and the Washington Post that they said,
well, after all this sex stuff fails
and the Russian thing fails, we're going to go with the fact
that he has early onset neurological disorder,
that he's got some type of Alzheimer's type dementia.
And they're in the meetings talking about the bull.
So that's all coming up, ladies and gentlemen.
That's the problem is that they don't know when to quit.
They tried to steal the election.
They did steal it from Bernie.
They tried to steal the nomination.
They tried to block Trump from being seated as president
and they're just back like herpes.
They will not go away.
And Hillary's openly making noises about running again
in two and a half years.
Yeah, we're already a year into the Trump presidency.
We're already 13 months since he got elected.
We're like 11 months since he got inaugurated.
And they have every intention of not just overthrowing Trump,
but politically overthrowing our entire America first movement.
They intend to outlaw it.
They intend to shut it down.
They intend to censor it.
And they're doing it.
We're seeing much more censorship on the Internet
than we saw during the whole campaign.
Because now they're really desperate
and now they're willing to go for broke.
And that's what's so crazy is that we're now facing a crazed enemy
that has got the general public that's on their side,
30, 40% of the public,
that literally believes this whole narrative
and is ready to start fights with people at restaurants
and grocery stores and on the streets.
They were a bunch of really wimpy Democrat lobbyists.
I learned who they were from the owner of the restaurant
who were walking over to our table Saturday night
when I was there with like 10 UFC fighters,
some of them were champs,
and saying F you to me and then looking at the table
and saying an F all of you.
And that's a perfect allegory of these wimpy Democrats,
55, 60 years old with earrings and long hair
and their trophy wives.
And I'm not against earrings and men and long hair.
My point is they were really kind of soy boys
walking over to go F you,
and then by the way, F all of you too.
Everybody's just like,
and they come back by the table and say F you
and they come back by the table and say F you.
And finally one completed the manager
and he went over and told them they quit.
But it's just,
they just want to point the finger like Nazis at us
and say we're the bad guys when all we're trying to do
is get the country back under U.S. control,
not foreign multinational control.
You guys aren't part of the power structure,
quit pretending you are.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs.
So you want to be sure it's the best for you and your family.
Since 2005,
thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems
in every size for incredibly delicious water now
and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com
or call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653
Goberkey.com
Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online
and snag your information just by walking past you.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID bag.
ID Stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology
over 12 years ago.
Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code present
for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
That's coupon code present,
also available at walmart.com, eBay, Amazon or QVC.
ID Stronghold.com
It's a hand-selected blend of saw palmetto, lycopene, plant sterols,
zinc, vitamin D3, selenium and copper.
Prostagard is something that the men on the Info Wars crew take
every day and from our research,
it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen
in order to keep their body going at optimal levels.
Now's the time to start naturally supporting your body.
Get Prostagard on your side today,
exclusively at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
For your deep earth iodine crystals,
this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones
which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones,
you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain
and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together
to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium
at infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We now take you live to the Central Texas Command Center
and the heart of the Resistance.
And we are back, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm going directly to your phone calls coming up in the next segment.
Senator Graham, it's up on infowars.com and newswars.com.
See the video.
Time to start moving U.S. military families out of South Korea
as the U.S. orders largest ever military drill
to simulate war with North Korea.
Boy, if that kicks off,
we should get some more military experts home
to talk about what that's going to look like
and what's going to unfold there.
So while we're all talking about Russian collusion
and all this made up, baloney and fake news,
and how they want to impeach the president,
we've got North Korea really looming.
That's some of the news that's up on infowars.com
and newswars.com.
And remember, they don't want those videos, those articles shared.
So the only way the articles get out and around the censors
is when you share it.
And then also coming up,
remember the lady that got shot and killed
by the illegal alien who'd been deported five times
and committed all those crimes?
The lawyer for him, he got him off,
even though he'd mitzvi shot her,
lionized him and says he's a great guy
and was never violent.
So it's not enough he didn't even get a manslaughter charge.
I mean, you accidentally shoot somebody,
you get a manslaughter charge.
You don't even get that.
It's just totally sick.
So that's coming up in the broadcast as well.
If you just joined us,
I'm taking phone calls now from people that disagree with me
and really think that there's some evidence of Russia
being behind the 2016 win.
And then specifically, I'm also asking other listeners
that are calling in,
how do they think they're going to get the indictment in the house
and then what would happen in the Senate?
And then what about all their real Russia collusion?
They just think they're not going to get in trouble
and have the very people that ran the Russia collusion
for Obama and the Clintons now running
the Russia collusion investigation.
This is so satirical if somebody wrote a satire novel
where the guy running the investigation
is in secret meetings with the Russians
giving them uranium and cutting down criminal investigations
of the State Department head
getting millions of dollars to give Russia our uranium
and then the same FBI guy is in bed
with a bunch of Russian companies
and then it just gets worse from there.
You'd say, that's ridiculous. That would never happen.
Well, it is happening.
I'm going to your phone calls.
But if you just joined us, here's the headlines.
Is President Trump's legal team preparing
for an imminent obstruction of justice charge?
NBC News, Feinstein, Senate Russia probe,
building obstruction case against Trump.
Meanwhile, they're saying the evidence they've got
is the Logan Act.
Trump's not violating the Logan Act
and that's something the Democrats do violate.
Bilderberg, Davos, all of it.
When the National Security Advisor is calling up world leaders,
that's what you're supposed to do.
But again, they prey on the ignorance of their voters.
That's why Democrats always talk about how dumb conservatives are
because that's their weak point.
The average Democrat, we have the video all over the country,
is the most servile, stupid, hateful moron.
You've seen the Hillary Clinton book signings.
We send out reporters politely.
Women come over like sea hag goblins
and start cussing and screaming and attacking.
And it's like almost every woman is nastier than the last woman.
And it's like, good God, where did they raise these people under rocks?
Sluvenly, lazy, stupid, entitled, hateful.
And they believe they're in an existential war with Christians
and if they can just dominate America that they fed off of,
then somehow they'd be somebody.
That's the whole existential struggle they're in.
They're just sacks of trash.
And they hate us.
They're like hordes of zombies.
They just hate the living.
They hate those that are informed.
All right, Ken, Kevin, Terrence, Aaron, Chad, John.
Does any of these people disagree?
Maybe Kevin does. Kevin and, Kevin and Canada, you're on the air. Go ahead.
Yeah, Alex, I've listened to you longer than the NSA has and watched your show.
And I have to say, you're probably the worst double speaking liar there is.
And I can prove it.
The first thing is when it comes to Russia,
there's one thing that you could do to prove it, but you won't release your finances
and prove to your audience where your money actually comes from.
Keep going.
Okay, the second, as far as doublespeak goes,
I mean, you already said on Joe Rogan's podcast
that you were pressured by your advertisers to lie about Y2K.
You said that Russia launched intercontinental ballistic missiles against the United States.
Now, another reason why you're probably tied to Russia
is you don't call Vladimir Putin a literal demon.
Just like you call Hillary now, you called Putin back then a literal demon.
Okay, hold on. That's a lot for me to remember.
So let me just go through each one first.
I've told the story about not knowing how real Y2K would be
and how the Navy said that it was all going to crash
and how the government first put out that it was going to be this real thing.
And then I didn't believe it was real for a while.
And then by the end, sponsors and listeners convinced me that,
okay, maybe something's going to happen.
Then ABC News reported that an intercontinental ballistic missile was fired from Russia
and may have malfunctioned on Y2K.
William Cooper and others edited the tapes together for me like on air 18 hours that day
to make it like some five-minute tapes sound completely insane.
So that's fake news.
The other thing is release my finances.
Release your finances. What does that mean?
Like, show us Russia isn't giving you money.
Russia's giving me zero money.
I'm financed by the listeners buying products.
And last time I checked, I think we have almost no orders going into Russia.
The U.K. orders a lot of stuff.
Canada orders a lot of stuff.
Mexico orders a lot of stuff.
Strangely enough, France orders a lot of stuff in Japan and Australia.
They still pay, you know, the fact that it's expensive to get stuff over there.
I'm trying to set up a European division, an Australian division.
That's coming next, you know, so that we can actually have product and warehouses there
to make it better for folks.
But I mean, again, you literally, you literally...
Because see, if I say something on the biggest podcast in the world,
it's not like I'm saying it in secret. Obviously the headlines.
Jones caught smoking pot.
We caught him on a podcast that had 45 million viewers.
It's like saying, Jones got caught, you know, in the Super Bowl.
If I was in the Super Bowl, I got caught throwing a football.
I mean, it's these little weird, semantical games that people engage in are just bizarre.
I mean, where's the evidence of Trump and Russia?
Where's the evidence that I'm involved with Russia?
Do you literally, actually with a straight face, Kevin,
do you believe that I have some connection to Russia?
So Alex, I'm going to take you up on your deal.
I will release five finances and you will have to do the same.
You just set it to your whole audience.
Hey, listen, bro, you have nothing.
I appreciate your call. You got your proof. I appreciate your call.
There you go, folks. There you go.
I said Russia fired a missile and then I must be paid by the Russians.
They have nothing. They have no facts.
We're going to make America great again, whether you like it or not.
We'll find out there in Canada, bro. We'll be back with more calls.
I'm very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality
Info Wars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion
and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support
digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop
what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength
at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years,
but this is the limited first round of the public,
so please take advantage of it today,
support your own health and support the Info War.
MRX essential oils can help balance your sleep schedule
and realign your sleep cycle.
These essential oils are an inexpensive and effective way
to bring aromatherapy into your home.
Experience the benefits of what nature can do for you
with sense to help you relax and unwind.
When life has you feeling down, the sense of each of our essential oils
can help you boost your mood.
When using MRX essential oils, there's no easier way to diffuse fragrances
than with this essential oils sense diffuser pod.
Experience the power of aromatherapy in any room of your home
with MRX essential oils.
Headaches are a major inconvenience,
but essential oils can help eliminate headaches and help reduce stress and anxiety.
When you're hard at work and need a boost in your mental performance.
Remember to use MRX essential oils to help increase your comprehension and memory potential.
Buy now and get what will soon become your favorite essential oil products
at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Op op op optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Coming to you live from the ATX Broadcasting Worldwide.
Alex Jones your host and the great Dave Mustaine is bringing us in.
Just like the Pied Piper let rats loose.
Okay, I'm gonna try to settle down because I get in here under the bright lights and I've got all this huge news and I tend to
just let the whole show go by without getting a bunch of calls.
I'm gonna try to scientifically bam, bam, bam, go to your calls as quickly as possible.
We just took a call from somebody that was gonna give me evidence of my Russia connections and he had none.
It's ridiculous.
The Cold War is over.
Ideologically, Russia is more like the US used to be.
We face the same globalist foes, multinational corporations that want to control our countries.
That's the only connection we have with Russia and I do share Russia's views on getting away from globalism.
And I don't buy all the hype about Vladimir Putin because I've investigated it myself.
It's the same mainstream media lying about me that lies about Putin and I'm certainly not lionizing Vladimir Putin.
Because most of it's a load of bull. That's their country. This is my country.
The Communist Chinese are the ones that have bought off a lot of our media that are starting to control Hollywood.
They're the big issue.
So, before I go back to your calls just briefly here, I do want to remind listeners that we are under globalist attack for a good reason
because we're effective, we understand what's going on and we're promoting freedom worldwide and we're exposing the globalist program.
So, if you do support the broadcast at m4store.com, it's a big deal.
DNA Force is an amazing product and it's been sold out for a while.
It's back in stock and it's got a 96% vote rate with readers, with listeners, with viewers who've tried it and who've taken it.
Similar formulation sold by medical clinics are $300 to $600. It's a good deal at $149.
It's $99.
We're talking $50 or more depending on which formulation that varies each time, how much stuff costs us, sometimes $45, sometimes $60 of product in DNA Force.
So, when it's $99.95, it's a great deal. It's now back in stock for a very limited time and I want to sell it out here in the next week.
More isn't coming in until sometime next year.
And we're doing a reformulation, by the way, so this is the last of this formula of DNA Force.
Also, we have several new specials we're running this week.
Super Blue fluoride-free toothpaste, empowered with Cloyle Silver and iodine.
It is 50% off Super Blue fluoride-free toothpaste for adults and children, two different formulas.
Also, vitamin mineral fusion with all the amino acids and everything, fruit punch flavor, totally natural, organic, 50% off at inforwarstore.com
or888-253-3139.
And your purchase of those products, again, funds this entire operation, so I want to thank you for doing it and putting up with me.
I took one of my daughters to have her tooth removed this morning because it had never come out and the tooth was coming in above it, going into the other tooth.
So, I took her out and I've never met the dentist. They've been there four or five times the last few years, but I've never met the dentist.
The dentist came out and shook my hand, was a listener. They had the anesthesiologist.
It's under regulations and laws now. Even if somebody gets put on laughing gas, they have an anesthesiologist there to do it because of all the lawsuits and stuff.
He was a listener, got a photo with me, and it was just very humbling that professionals all over are listening to the show.
Because I'll be honest, sometimes I think the show's good, but half the time I'm sick of hearing my voice.
That's why I have a lot of guests on and other talk show hosts and stuff, because I want to build something that's more diverse.
We're winning. When everywhere I go, we run into people that are big fans of the show and, you know, tell me about what was on the show just yesterday.
So, there are a minority of people, mainly white yuppies who are entitled, who will lash out at myself or you or others for promoting freedom, but they are the dwindling minority.
So, there is a lot of hope. And as long as the economy is growing and we have optimism and we know what a fraud this Russia investigation is, we know it's not going anywhere.
But the question is, then what are they going to do as they get more and more angry and more and more violent?
Hashtag hunt Republicans. Hashtag Black Lives Matter. Hashtag kill the cops. Hashtag go out and beat people up just because you politically disagree with them.
I mean, what's going to happen with these people? That's a big question. Okay, I'm going to go to your calls now. Terrence in Washington, you're on the air.
Go ahead. Thanks for calling.
Hi, Alex. How are you doing?
Good, brother.
Hey, me and my girlfriend, Sabrina, have been listeners for a long time. I've been listening a lot longer. Now, this is just what I'd like to say to you, Alex, is that human, human to human.
You know about communication context. You've taught me. Now, this is what I got to say.
You were a lot more passionate about what you were speaking about when you were trying to save the world besides the politicalness defending Trump.
Now, are you seeing something in your tarot cards that says you need to put all your chips down on Trump or were doomed to dead?
Or do you see any of the facts that keeping Trump right now is leading this race war and a possible civil war? Would you give up Trump to keep a civil war from happening?
Just do me a favor. Turn your radio down, but it's a really good question.
It's more complex than that. It's not that I'm perfect or Trump's perfect. It's that he really is challenging the globalist.
He's destroying their takeover plan of the U.S. and the world, and they're trying to destroy him and they're trying to destroy me in the process and my family.
And so I'm committed and doubled down on an issue of loyalty through this because you know someone by their enemies.
And yeah, you say to all the tarot cards show that Trump's the guy. It's beyond that. It's the fight.
I mean, you see how the globalists hate Trump and hate the liberty movement and how nationalism is spreading all over the world.
I'm supporting nationalism in Brazil and nationalism in England and nationalism in areas of Africa and Asia.
Does it mean that UKIP's a perfect party? Does it mean that the parties in Eastern Europe that are breaking away from the EU that they're perfect?
But they understand they're under foreign globalist domination and the globalists are the big worldwide organized tyranny.
They're the operatives. They're the ones that are the biggest threat.
And so I admire Trump for having the courage to fight him and getting a foothold and starting to beat them and that the fight is so close that I'm putting all my energy in to not hedging my bets.
I could get up here and only halfway support Trump and not be such a big target, but I want to be a big target just like he is.
I want to give my full effort and commitment and not half measures in this historical time we're in.
I want to be counted. I want my John Hancock on the Declaration of Independence.
Do you think all the people on that Declaration of Independence liked each other or agreed with each other or they were all perfect?
No, but they were up against an empire that never been defeated and they were sick of being ruled by an outside power.
And they put it all on the line and they were successful and they were victorious.
And so I smelled victory. I smelled it three years ago. You've seen it happen.
Now you see the economy coming back. Now you see all the changes.
And so the proof is in the pudding.
We were already conquered. They're threatening civil war because they want control again.
They're the outside power. We kicked the globalist out.
Then we can debate, put things politically and not be so committed one way or the other.
But right now, this is life and death of this country. Stay there, Terence.
I'm going to come back and get a response to that.
Then John, Jennifer, Chad, and others.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I'm so excited. The new product at infowarslife.com.
In a glass bottle, two months servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients.
But it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae, working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO, made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have
to even make the hormones in your glands. It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
After years of research working with top developers here in the United States with the latest cutting edge science,
we are rolling out three new digestive gut aids.
One of them is a powerful pro digestive enzyme, carnivore, for being able to break down meat and other proteins better.
And then the other two is a powerful 50 billion live probiotic culture of the very best strains in fluorolive advanced restoration.
And we also have an everyday, extremely affordable fluorolive everyday maintenance.
But all of these are the very cutting edge, top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price.
That is my goal here, is to bring you the very best at the lowest price.
When you purchase it at infowarsstore.com, you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the defense of our republic and freedom worldwide.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the year, another Matt, go ahead.
Hey listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of infowars, and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the info war.
It might seem like a simple thing, but they particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
And my favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me.
And it's a big day glow snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag, infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt.
Trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind, available exclusively at infowars.com.
Welcome back folks, I'm Alex Jones.
It's Monday, December 4th, 2017. We're going to wrap back to your phone calls.
Terrence, who we're going back to, asked the question, have you just joined us?
What would it take for you to basically turn on Trump?
Well, I'd have to turn on myself to do that because I want our sovereignty back.
I want control of our nation back. I don't want NAFTA and GATT and TPP transferring our sovereignty to unelected groups.
It's not fair to turn our coal power off and then let other countries use it.
It's not fair to just leave our borders wide open when those very nations who are exploiting us have borders.
We're just re-establishing that we have a country right now.
And Trump's delivering, that's why the powerful global forces that own the media have been so desperate to destroy him.
So people ask, would you turn on Trump to avert a civil war?
We're trying to get the country back. I can't just get on my knees to the globalists and let them run things.
Then it's forced inoculations. Then it's sensitivity training.
Then it's political correctness brainwashing right out of the Soviet Union.
They're openly announcing total censorship. They're announcing that your kids belong to the state.
I'm surprised something like Trump didn't come along sooner.
So for me, it's not even a question at all about why do I support Trump?
I mean, the Democrats just keep thinking if they threaten me or cuss at me or take our sponsors or try to take my kids away,
that I'm somehow going to run off into the dark because I'm scared of them.
It's only going to make me fight harder.
So I wouldn't betray myself. I wouldn't betray my family. So I wouldn't betray the president.
I've been very critical of him, bad-mouthing WikiLeaks when that's what got him elected.
And he said he would appoint somebody to the CDC to investigate vaccines. He's gone back on that.
And he's done a few other things I don't like, but that's because he's overwhelmed and can't execute perfectly.
I don't expect perfection. I'm not instant ratification.
But I mean, I couldn't get done all the stuff Trump's done.
I'm surprised by what he's gotten done. And then we sit here watching him go through all this hell.
And then we kind of hedge our bets with friends and family.
Oh, yeah, yeah, Trump, yeah, whatever.
I mean, I found out that I've known people for years who around me posed that they were libertarians,
but behind the scenes hang out with Austin liberals and badmouth me.
I mean, why not just say you hate Trump and you hate me, but see, they don't really hate Trump or hate me.
They're just chameleons. They don't stand for anything.
Well, you know what? I go out in public. I go to downtown Austin. I go eat food right there.
You want to walk up my table and yell and cuss at me and tell me I'm built? You go ahead and you do it.
But you always run off because you don't want to have a discussion.
And you talk about a cult. That's all any of them ever do is come up and say F you.
And they might add, you Russian agent, you're going to get it. And they're shaking because I want to bring our jobs back.
And I'm pro self-defense and I don't hate America. I don't hate our military and I don't want to shoot cops at the back of the head.
People go, man, you used to bash the cops a lot, but now you're like pro cop.
I wanted to reform the police and not have them be agents of the globalist because they're an important fixture to the country.
Doesn't mean I hate them or want to kill them because I showed an interest in the police.
I'm not in a gang, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not on one side or the other. I'm trying to promote freedom.
I want to be where Trump is. I want to be up front. I want to be on the cutting edge. I want to be restoring the Republic.
I want to be taken on these tyrants.
Because that's where the men are.
I'm not some person that just flies around like a piece of paper in the wind off what looks popular.
We stick my finger up to see which way the wind's blowing. I don't do things like that.
I study history. I study what's happening in the country. I know the issues.
And then I try to set a course for what historically produces the best, freest, honorable societies.
And am I perfect? Absolutely not.
But am I committed to Americana? Do I believe in what I stand for? I'm ready to die a thousand times what I believe in.
That's not some big statement either. If you're even halfway alive, you better be willing to die for something.
People think being a man is having a bunch of symbols of wealth or acting physically tough or out of their men.
That's not what a man does. A man does what's right.
And doesn't back down in the face of it. Has commitments. That's what this is about.
And that's why people out there always claim that I'm a fraud or I'm a phony because it's the opposite.
I'm the opposite of a father phony. I'm willing to do anything to take on these people because I know what they are.
A bunch of goddamn devil worship and pedophiles.
And I want to apologize for saying that because it's not the Lord's name in vain.
I hope God damns these people to hell for eternity.
And I know this. I'm going to give my full energy and everything I've got as imperfect as it is to taking these people on.
And I'm going to pour out everything I've got against them.
Because I don't want to be around them or with them and their spirit.
Because my very heart and my guts tells me they're pure death.
They're a bunch of cowardly backstabbing scum.
And I'm so proud they hate me. Let me tell you, it's always scum that gets in my face.
You can always tell. Oh, look at that table of scum. They're going to come over and say something.
Because they're always a bunch of confused, nitty-ing, rudderless crap.
That think if they attack somebody that mainstream media hates, somehow they might be somebody
by pointing their finger at me and saying, there's the bad guy.
So there's my answer to you, Terrence. They can put a gun to my head.
And say, if you don't come out and say, you hate Trump, we're going to blow your brains out.
I'd say pull the trigger.
I've already basically had the Democratic Party and the whole structure try to take my children away from me.
I've already had them do things you wouldn't believe behind the scenes.
And you know what? It doesn't make me cry. I'm not a victim.
I'm not looking for ways out of this without confrontation.
It makes me go, oh, I'm really getting attacked. Let's go that direction.
Where's the strongest attack from?
That's my radar guidance system, is to go directly in to where the attack is.
All they're doing is steering me. Oh, man, they're really attacking now.
Like a Geiger counter going right to the source of the radiation.
See, I think about the average person just thinks about themselves how to get ahead.
When you think like that, you lose everything.
The most selfish thing is to stand up for what's right because that's what gives you the world.
But that's how God works. You didn't mean it to be that way, but you got the world because you were willing to lose it all.
These people think you get the world by being willing to lose nothing and all you end up being is alone.
I'm not going to be with the timid souls that serve evil when I die.
I'm going to run the race. I'm going to blow it out.
And when I collapse at them dead, I'm going to leave a lot of energy behind against these people.
And that's why they hate us because they know we know who they are and we have the will to break them.
And we are going to break them.
And nation states across the world are going to pull away from world government and pull away from these multinational corporations that are anti-God, anti-family.
And all of you leftists are going to scream and hate as from Russia to the U.K. to the U.S. to you name it.
Pulls away. You're all going to scream.
Oh, Austria is voting to leave the EU because they're Russian agents.
Italy is voting to get out of the EU because they're Russian agents.
No, because they want to be their own people and not under some Nazi collaborators, grandsons, control, unelected Yulker.
See, you have to understand, they're always saying we're Russian collaborators because they're the globalists.
They're the ones killing the nation state.
They're the ones bashing, having American flags.
It's their night circuit saying you can't have an American flag in school, not Donald Trump.
They're the ones telling you hate America.
They're the ones telling you the country's bad.
They're the ones telling you piss on your ancestors.
Have no respect.
They're the enemy.
They're the cancer.
They're the problem.
They're what they say we are.
That's your question, Terrence.
Yeah, I would say you did.
And you know what?
Thank you for the heart in your voice.
Again, I need to hear that.
I'm a strong man like you.
I'm a 27-year-old male with a daughter who I do.
I do think to myself now it shows these globalists can kill you.
Who cares about me?
Who cares about you?
But my daughter, if they threaten to kill my daughter, how do you respond to that?
You had globalists threaten to kill your daughter?
No, but I can only imagine if this is what's going on.
I'll tell you why they won't threaten your daughter.
If you have it in your heart to kill anybody that threatens your daughter,
they would want and won't do it.
So you understand?
You've got to be willing to kill for your family so people don't mess with you.
But you've got to have that and they've got to know it.
I want to plow into all of this that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first
just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from infowarstore.com,
you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodine as well.
infowarslife.com or AAA2533139.
And your purses of the products stands with us, stands with America,
stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are,
and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We've got a lot of amazing products like Survival Shield X2,
Super Metal Vitality and so many others,
with its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process
designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products,
and this part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant-derived
or of the highest quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure,
and rest-secured, you're finding the tip of the spear in the infowar.
That's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Well, I love taking calls, but they're also exhausting because they challenge me,
and they take me to places I wasn't thinking about.
I got a ton of important clips, big breaking news this hour,
a bunch of stuff I've got to get to, but I am trying to go to your calls as quickly as I can.
You know, caller asked me why am I committed to Trump.
You know a man by his enemies, this is like biblical, the amount of attacks,
and the fraud, and then I'm being attacked right next to him.
That doesn't create camaraderie.
If that doesn't get you on board with somebody even more,
the more attacks there are, it's the opposite of breaking me.
And I just don't ever get the mindset,
a lot of people used to think that I was trying to scare folks on air,
and I learned that some of the globalists thought my show wasn't damaging them
a decade ago or so because they thought I was just scaring people for them.
Like they think like scaring you makes you submit.
That's like the Nazis bombing civilian targets.
They thought it would make the British not want to have the war,
but it took the Brits from not wanting the war to wanting the war.
And I just don't ever get Tyrant's perspective where you do something mean to somebody,
at least in my experience where I'm from, makes you want to fight harder.
So that's the perspective I've got here.
And as nasty as the enemy is, we've already come so far, ladies and gentlemen,
that as nasty as politics was and as betrayed as it was,
and it was all about deception and garbage,
as soon as that flips that it's all about being honorable.
And I can tell you right now with Trump, it's straight up in his policies behind the scenes.
There's not subterfuge.
That's why the politicians and the globalists hate it.
It's just straight up business, straight up.
They can't stand it.
Straight up pragmatism.
It's not even goody tissues.
It's just not deceptive.
And their whole system of hijacking the whole culture
and shelling it off the highest bidder and being the lords of everything
because they're the gatekeepers on humanity's future, that's coming to an end.
And I am very honored to be part, even in my stumbling fashion, to be involved in this.
All right, Chad, Aaron, Patrick, and many others.
Patrick in Idaho, thanks for holding her on the ear.
You there?
Yes, I am.
Good.
So, stemming off of yesterday's conversation,
I'm Irish, English, German, French, Basque, Indian, whatever.
I'm just an American.
Okay, and I hear you disagree with me on Russia connection?
No, I don't.
I think if I can spin a little bit off, I think you're a Polish agent.
Okay, and how do you know I'm a Polish agent?
My friends, Sinovac, Pachinik, Big Lebowski, all Polish come.
Well, you know, I actually, there are a lot of people Polish background
that send me fighting the New World Order, it's true.
And I've got friends that are Polish, but also I think Pachinik from Russia.
I mean, a lot of those are just Slavic names.
But, you know, people tell Psobik that he must be a Russian agent
because he's Polish.
Anybody that knows the history knows the Poles don't like the Russians too much.
There's just a lot of ignorance, you know.
Just because somebody has a Slavic last name doesn't mean they're Russian.
I'm just having fun with you, sir.
No, no, Patrick, I hear you.
It sounds like you've had a lot of fun today.
Are you smoking dope or are you drinking alcohol today?
Neither.
Okay, well, I got it.
We got to catch up with me.
Okay.
I'm not smoking.
I got to go.
Man, you're something else.
I got to go.
That color is so ridiculous.
You know, but he did bring up some good points, though.
There's been a disproportionate amount of people Polish last names
involved in the Liberty Movement.
So don't start a new conspiracy theory that, hey, how about we don't judge people
off their last names.
We judge them off what they do.
You know, they're saying Trump's a Nazi because he's got a German last name.
Let's judge people not off what color they are in their last name, but what they do.
I'm so excited.
The new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to
the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
And frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but
it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people a hundred, two hundred dollars for
the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglonone to it, which is the precursor to all the
hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com, and your purchase fugs the operation.
No matter what, I'm going to your calls quick and fast right now to the bottom of the hour,
then I've got a huge blitz of videos and clips and just insane stuff I need to get to.
The toll-free number to join us is 877-789-Alex, 877-789-Alex.
The callers are, some of them have been great, some of them have been okay, some of them
have been funny and goofy like the last guy.
But what they are is long.
Just get to your point.
I'm going to try to make a quick point and move on.
They have asked them epic questions.
Some of my answers have taken 20 minutes.
It's mainly my fault.
I apologize.
We're going to your calls.
Aaron, Chad, Frank, and many others.
Who should I go to next?
Let's go to Aaron in Salt Lake City, Utah.
You're on the air.
Hey, Alex.
How are you doing?
Good, brother.
Hey, I just have a little theory about why the lettuce grass can at straws or trunks
will make this fast.
Once Trump started saying that, you know, meet North Korea with a fury and fire, no
one's seen, they started ramping up things.
Now what is fury and fire?
To me, if you go to Twitter and search Astina, H-E-H-E-N-A, in Fox News, you'll find a report
from Fox about a system using lasers that knocked out drones out of the sky.
Now, if Fox is putting that out, to me, it seems like the government is willing to show
that kind of information that maybe we have even tech up in the skies to watch.
And so the reason why he started talking about this is because none of the globalists wanted
to push, you know, nuclear war with North Korea and Russia, but they stopped that.
And now they're trying to push control over satellites.
How is North Korea going to hit us with a nuke?
The only way they could do it is if they were to try to use an EMP to disable our system.
So to me, it just seems like North Korea and the globalists are trying to push another
warm Pearl Harbor where all of a sudden they just keep, they turn off our communications
so we can't even defend ourselves.
That's just marketing.
No, I think the experts agree with that.
That's one of the only threats from North Korea that's really serious, and it's something
North Korea has been looking at.
They don't have delivery systems yet where the missiles, you know, don't break up coming
in to the atmosphere.
And we also know the Clintons and the Chinese and the globalists had a lot of back deals
with North Korea.
And so they've been using North Korea to put pressure on the Trump administration.
Great point, Aaron.
Thank you so much for holding from Salt Lake City.
Let's go to Chad in West Virginia.
Thanks for holding your own here.
It's a pleasure to be with you, man.
Thank you, brother.
Yeah, I was talking to the lady there that kind of screamed me when I was first called
and I was telling her about how this is a spiritual warfare against Trump and anybody
that's supporting Trump.
And I truly, truly believe, Alex, I've been a Christian all my life.
I'm a disabled veteran.
I come from the deepest coal mining country there is in America, which is Southern West
Virginia, McDowell County, which has been proven throughout, actually is more or less
than the fifties and sixties.
I believe it was.
There was more coal that came out of there than any other place in America.
It made the boom for Pittsburgh, the steel.
No, I'm fully aware of that.
That area of West Virginia basically built much of our industrial revolution.
Anyway, so I started to get off a little bit of top there, but no, it's interesting.
It's interesting.
Just just wanted to basically just describe where I'm coming from and who I am.
And also what I want to get at to get to the point, and I know you said we're short on
time.
I am a disabled veteran.
I served in Afghanistan.
I'm actually disabled and permanently retired from injuries.
I sustained in combat in Afghanistan since 9 11.
And I'm super aware of your theories and beliefs on 9 11 and that there was some corruption
involved and whatnot.
And without getting into that, what I want to say is that we have spent the past 16 years,
regardless of what your beliefs about 9 11 are, we have spent and invested probably trillions
of dollars.
Maybe even trillions of dollars into fighting radical Islam for 16 years now.
So what I want to get at is that that was the boogeyman that was made for us to focus
on for the past 16 years.
And I'd like to say it was a well deserved boogeyman.
It wasn't a fraudulent boogeyman.
What I believe the Democrats and the left Looney liberals are now making is Russia being the
new boogeyman.
And it's because it fits their agenda with this whole anti white, anti Christian, anti
America.
It's impossible for us to continue making radical Islam the boogeyman in order to fit
their agenda.
Sure, they want total civil war now directed by liberal governments to compartmentalize
everybody.
We talk about spiritual warfare.
I mean, they are attacking and intimidating and all over white people are getting beat
up just because they're white, even if they're not wearing a Trump hat.
And again, this is the leftist media pushing this narrative to control our countries.
Most of the so called minorities aren't racist.
The media is trying to force them into it.
Most of the anti from meetings are leftist white people running it, but it really shows
you how cold-blooded they are.
And that is their plan for divide and conquer, and you're right.
They radicalized a lot of Islam.
They protected it.
They grew it.
Then they got our military fight it to basically wear our military out.
Trump said, we're not doing that.
We're actually going to defeat it and it's over.
And then in just 11 months, it's almost defeated, which again just shows you how there wasn't
a real action to actually defeat it.
The globalists were just using it to take away our liberties.
That's another reason they hate Trump so much is he's derailing that entire program.
And listen, I've been on there 22 years and folks would call in like you and say, Alex,
it's spiritual warfare.
It's good versus evil.
And I'd say, I know that, but I would not focus much on it.
But as I get older and I research more, at the end of the day, the people we're fighting
aren't black.
They're not white.
They're not Hispanic.
They're not Asian.
They're all different colors, but they are anti-human psychopaths and sociopaths who
are into evil and who don't believe in humanity and who hate their neighbors and who like
to lie and like to steal and like to cheat.
And so yes, we are in a fight of good versus evil.
And you heard the caller ask me earlier, why do you support Trump?
I mean, look at everything coming back.
Look at the globalist hating him.
Look at how they lie.
Look at everything they've done.
It's so obvious, not just intellectually, but from the enemies and what we're seeing
happen that Trump is so real.
And I just, it just gives me hope to know there's not just evil in this world.
And one thing that the top that Alex and I just want to add this is because it's always
what I hear when you hear someone speaking of supporting Trump or that all these Christians
supported Trump and I honestly believe that it wasn't divine for him to be elected president.
I honestly wholeheartedly believe that.
But what you hear from the left all the time, these anti-Christians, most people who've
never even walked into a church phone and ever even opened a Bible in their life, they'll
say, oh, how could you support Trump when he's talking about grabbing this and grabbing
that?
And after his lifestyle and he's been divorced and this and that, listen, for everybody out
there listening right now, whoever you are, a Christian is not a thing.
If you are a Christian and you follow God, you read the Bible, you are a Christian.
I've been a Christian since I was five years old.
Well, let me throw this down.
The Bible's replete.
God judges the heart, not the deeds.
King David got his best friend killed just so he could have sex with his wife.
But after he truly repented, God just said, you're a man of his own heart.
Christ said, look at these Pharisees praying up on top of the hill, but behind closed doors
they're super evil.
Christ was looking for real people that were good and honorable and strong, not that they
were perfect.
God made us, God knows us, and you're absolutely right.
Look at the Bible.
Saul of Tarsus becomes Paul on the road to Damascus.
He was a horrible person.
So that's, and Trump's not an horrible person.
He's a for real guy.
He's out the open.
He's not perfect, but he really isn't out to get people.
He doesn't want austerity.
He doesn't want to enslave people, and that's why the globalists hate him, and you're absolutely
right.
God raises people up, and we've seen providence, and that's why the evil of Hollywood and
the globalists hate Trump so much.
Go ahead.
Amen.
I truly believe everything you just said.
That's 100%.
One last thing that I'll list to go myself, but do you still listen to or follow Howard
Stern in any kind of way?
I mean, I don't really listen to or follow, I don't really like a lot of the stuff he
does, but I've been on this show before.
Why?
Well, I don't either.
I don't either.
But this morning, he actually had a, he was talking about the election in Alabama, and
he was talking about how the Roy Morris department supported him.
I got to hear this.
You got to hold through the break.
I got to hear this.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Paying your happiness with pure soap.
These all natural, earth-friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk.
Get a 12, 36, or 48-month supply.
Or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and
natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Cal Bend Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned
real soaps that are triple concentrated, soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E-starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center-cut, presidential bacon.
Savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA Pack technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and serve.
Life-saving, ready to eat bacon.
10-year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
KD Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market
and we've succeeded.
With the release of our CQB technology, we now offer the most comfortable, concealable
rifle threat body armor available.
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at kdarmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing, only at catiarmor.com.
Refresh your breath with Imrexistential's organic mouthwash.
Honor formula is made from organic herbal ingredients to help stimulate the gums and
provide a cleansing effect while adding a pleasant refreshing taste.
Imrexistential's mouthwash is non-GMO certified organic made without alcohol, chemicals or
other artificial ingredients such as flavors, fragrances or dyes.
The pure organic plant extracts are concentrated containing antibacterial properties that work
well to help tone gums and freshen your breath.
This antiseptic mouthwash is a concentrated formula.
You will need to dilute 1 part mouthwash to 10 parts water.
Imrexistential's mouthwash is a great addition to your daily brushing routine.
It is effective yet gentle enough for the most sensitive gums and canker sores.
So organic today with Imrexistential's, visit infowarstore.com to learn more at infowarstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Wars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
It packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
You are receiving this transmission, you are the Resistance.
Alright Chad in West Virginia, finishing up, he was asking, I heard Howard Stern.
You know, I've been on Howard Stern's show, had a big response to a big show, been on
his network quite a bit as a guest.
I just don't have time to listen to it and I know it's a racy show, so I'm not attacking
Stern, I'm not defending Stern, sometimes if I'm driving across the country and he's
not making fart noises, then he has some entertaining guests on and interesting interviews.
I think he gets interesting stuff out of people.
I just, you know, I mean you asked if I liked Howard Stern and you know, in general, I don't
like the fact that I've heard him say Trump didn't really intend to win.
That's what the Democrats say and it's a load of bull, and it's a backhand to the top.
But that said, I think he's a talented broadcaster, but what was he talking about today?
You did have to get on the road, you left your house, you're now in the car, go ahead,
what was Trump saying?
I mean, what was he saying about Roy Moore, Stern, I really want to hear this, get him
back on hold guys, talk to him, get him ready to come back on with us, because I held everybody
through, I want to hear what Stern talked about with Roy Moore today, or I'd have somebody
else calling and tell me, so just as soon as he realizes we're going to go back to him,
we'll do that.
So let's try one more time to go back to Tennessee.
Can you hear me?
Go ahead, sir.
Hello, Alex.
Yes sir, go ahead.
Oh, I guess Chad hung up on a different caller.
Okay.
I'm not mad, but I don't know what's going on with the phone system.
Okay.
Alex, go ahead.
Can I ask you something?
Go ahead.
Yeah, go ahead.
I'm having trouble.
I love your show and I have trouble listening to it because your app doesn't work with iOS
11.
I hear your brother's a lot of stuff doesn't work around here.
And your other app, I know you got the new Info Wars Live app, but it glitches constantly.
The Alex Jones app worked great, but now it's not compatible, so I can't hear it.
I'm out on these West Texas oil fields trying to get my news, and I just wanted to let you
know personally that I'm having trouble.
I know.
You know what?
I got that app made about eight years ago.
I paid 650 bucks.
And then when it stopped being available about six months ago, I said, hey, can you know,
hire a company to just update it so it works.
And all the King's Horses and all the King's Men might be able to get that going for you.
Yeah, we're going to abort that other app because it's had problems and I'm going to
work with some other folks to build some.
But the problem is there's a lot of leftist involved in the tech companies and in production
and all the rest of it.
We've actually been sabotaged.
We've confirmed it's been done on purpose.
Apple will say, oh, we're going to accept your film for iTunes, then refuse it three,
four times.
You know, Google's banned us in a bunch of places, and it's gotten a lot worse since
Trump got into office.
There's just economic operations going on.
So I'm probably going to launch a big open fair or something.
We have 24-hour broadcasts where just tech people call in.
We vet them, we listen to them, and then we pay them to build us basic things that I could
get eight years ago.
I can't get today.
So I'm glad we got to this caller.
I don't know who we're talking to.
So tell me your name, caller.
I'm Thomas from West Texas.
Because of you, Alex, I got politically involved, went through my community, became a delegate.
I worked my way up, gave my story about working in the Middle East and became a national delegate
and helped get Trump elected because of your radio show.
So thank you.
Well, thank you, brother.
And we're going to try to be taking more phone calls in the future.
It's something I've gotten away from, but it's something that kind of comes down to
an art form, getting the callers on, going to them, having them be there when you go
to them, having them have good phones, having them respond.
But we're going to make calls a bigger part of the broadcast because it's calls like you
and the last caller that make it all really worthwhile to be able to learn from.
But yes, I am fully aware that the app we have that like 4 million people downloaded,
just the Alex Jones app for iPhones is not working on new phones.
And man, I thought it'd be something simple to do.
All the King's horses, all the King's men can't do it.
So we need to set up an email address or something.
I've been meaning to go to the audience for this because I go to companies, I pay them
money.
Nothing happens.
Big companies, small companies.
It's just bizarre.
And then later I learned with some of the folks that it's just a big joke and that, you know,
they're attacking us on their Facebook page and talking crap about us, you know, so, you
know, I mean, I've run into quite a bit of interesting stuff out there because believe
me, the left aren't just folks that cuss at you in the streets.
They're creeping around involved in businesses and companies all over the place.
And they're a very sinister, deceptive group of people.
Well, the only way currently that I can listen to you is by listening to your podcast the
next day and the dollar short.
I know, brother.
I know.
There's a lot of stuff we need to do.
I've even thought about shutting the show down for a while just to give us the time to
get everything geared back up because I mean, we're just about doing the show, but then
it's kind of like not putting it out though, you know, because it can't just happen in
the building.
It's got to happen out there, but you know, that's why I still work on the weekend and
it's why I still do videos from my house, myself and other things like that is so that
I can just attempt to get out to people and I'm not whining about it.
It's just very frustrating to deal with the debt threats and the attacks and the cutting
our sponsors off and all that.
I can handle that.
It's just the it's the trying to actually get ducks in a row to put a broadcast out.
The crew running the shows do a great job running the show.
It's just on the tech end of that.
So we'll work on that.
I appreciate your call.
And again, we're taking phone calls today, folks, so we're getting all sorts of stuff
here on air.
You think you're talking to one caller, you're talking to another caller, but you know the
Lord works in mysterious ways because for six months I have people stop me, man, I walk
down the street.
They go, hey, hey, your your iPhone app doesn't work anymore.
I've been listening to you on this for like eight years, Alex.
Can you just can you just update that?
Hell, I had a guy in the street from us being say, you know, I do apps.
Here's my number.
Get in touch with me.
We need to get that fixed.
And you know, the biggest thing you can do on your phones is you can just go to infowars.com
and it works on my phone and works on droids and works on everything.
You just go to the top and it says listen and it says watch.
And there are those.
And you know, I noticed about a month ago.
It said and it always said listen and it was a listen button, but then I clicked on it
and it was a watch button.
And if you don't have a good man with it, it didn't even work and I went, man, do we
know why a listen button changed to a watch button but still said listen and nobody knew.
So I said, you know what we're going to do?
We're going to put listen up there again and we're going to have it actually listen and
then we're going to put next to it one that says watch.
And then people can click on that one and they can watch.
So I'm not sure, but there's a lot of ways for you to just click and listen there on
the site.
But we will get that iPhone updated for you, my friend, because believe me, but the biggest
thing you can do is there's also live streams, but I just have a lot of folks don't want
to watch a video stream on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, our own platform infowars.com, forward
slash show.
They want to have audio like radio.
And I understand that.
So we're going to, I myself am going to set out the next few days to see what the main
ways for folks to listen on radio are.
And then I'm going to start a new initiative around here where I'm going to find out about
how we get that app that three, four million people downloaded working for you.
Well, I got a bunch of clips I'm going to get to in your phone calls coming up.
Stay with us more fun.
Have you ever lost your power and wanted to simply flip a switch to get the lights back
on?
If so, pay close attention because huge discounts are now available in solar generators, perfect
for backup power outages and emergencies.
Portable solar generators provide life saving electrical power when you need it most.
Unlike gas generators, a solar generator runs quietly, emits no dangerous fumes and produces
an endless supply of electricity from the sun.
It's like having an electric power plant running secretly in your own home.
Right now, get a $5,000 solar generator for just $995 while supplies last.
Go to mysolarbackup.com to learn more.
That's mysolarbackup.com.
GCN listeners, use coupon code GCN at checkout for this special offer.
Mysolarbackup.com, use coupon code GCN, EMP protection available at an additional charge.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels, optimum
levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need
every day.
Up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargists.
Secret 12, up, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Up, up, up, up, up, up, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
Protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Perfect for face and body, this natural, unscented sunscreen can be worn at all times
of the day, whenever you need sun protection.
We source ingredients from nature, producing a product free of harmful chemicals and toxins.
This natural lotion contains 21% zinc oxide, which is the largest particle size used and
we do not use nanoparticles.
The larger the particle, the safer it is for your body.
The organic oils help hydrate the skin, leaving it nice and smooth.
The truly natural fragrance-free sunscreen for the most sensitive skin.
EmRick's Essentials wants you to enjoy the sun and strives to bring you organic products
to enhance your life.
Naturally protect your skin with SPF 30 sunscreen lotion by EmRick's Essentials.
Stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients.
Visit infowarsstore.com and learn more about the new SPF 30 sunscreen lotion.
Not a group you develop living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system, but right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's
harmful to your body that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that's said that there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslive.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslive.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We're back live.
More of your phone calls coming up.
I really should just sit here for three or four hours one day and just read headlines
so people get an idea of just how crazy this stuff is.
I'm sure the audience already knows, but I was reading this Paul Watson article today
that was just quotes out of the Swedish newspaper.
And this doesn't make sense if you make sense as a person.
But if you're social engineers that want to literally break the population to put up
with anything, this is a formula.
And then I was thinking about another one of Trump's accomplishes.
I was thinking about one of the other big things that he's accomplished.
When I was reading the story, and Daria popped in my ear and brought up another point, one
of the producers.
Trump has reversed the Red River land grab where the feds just announced control of both
sides of the river and took hundreds and hundreds of ranches, some of them that have
been there for 150 years.
Well now, Trump is shrinking the Obama monuments where they're not getting rid of the actual
monuments, the feds that announced even more land around them was off limits, when in many
of those western states, more than half the state is federal land.
In fact, some states are 85% or more.
What Utah is 90, Nevada is close to 90, most of those states are more than half federal.
So when you hear, oh Obama took 5,000, 10,000 square miles around a monument, that's just
in general area declaring more land and there's only a few little pieces in there that were
actually private.
You'll have some 50-year-old or 100-year-old ranch.
I see it in the news all the time, you've seen it, and they'll just say, we've been
letting you use that road to get to your ranch up there on the mountaintop for 100 years.
Sorry, it's locked, and then the ranchers go, we're allowed to use it, it's our land.
They'll go, huh, some dumb ranchers think they own land in the middle of a national park,
and the public's so ignorant in big cities, they don't even understand, there's all these
ranches and farms in the middle of nowhere.
I mean, you go out west, you'll drive an hour, and it's just federal land, sometimes two
hours, and then thank God you run into some little area that's got a couple of shops and
a gas station, and there's always some old ranch that they still got cattle on, but the
feds have squeezed it down from 50,000 acres to a thousand, and that's how they get the
tax easement, but grandma's old and the kids are already moved away, so when she dies,
no more gas station.
The west has been depleted of people being able to do business out there, and you get
up to the Mississippi River, and you start going west, I mean, SWAT teams, I'll just
come on some farmer's land and just aim guns at them for no reason, or just shoot some
kid off the back of a bike, again, I'm not against police themselves, I'm against the
federally brainwashed green police, they're now giving guns, they're the ones that are
crazy.
So, yeah, Daria just mentioned that, Trump is reversing things that took the globalist
decades every day, it's devastating, it's lightning fast, and every time it's done
pragmatically of what's fair and what's good for everybody.
I mean, Trump is a godsend, I don't even want to get up here and say he's great, he's
great, he's great, he's great, but I'm not going to lie to you, and then I look at the
sacks of garbage, here's another example, I have a stack of news every day without even
looking at it, where there are illegal aliens in Europe, in the United States and other
places running around just killing people, and in leftist countries when they kill people,
they'll even let them go sometimes, and then I remember learning like a year and a half
ago, people think I know a lot, I don't know a lot, I learned about a year and a half ago,
I saw a headline in Breitbart that the UN controls the State Department and controls
the refugee immigration of the US, I knew they controlled the third world and the entries
to Europe and coming here, but I didn't know that they were actually running the State Department
to the migrant compact and that they would vet people without vetting them and that it
was the UN giving them passports, so I went and looked it up and learned all about it,
that happened eight years ago under Obama, putting us under the UN, I mean imagine I
read all day long and I didn't know that, it had been going on for like six years, seven
years by the time I learned about it, what else is going on, I'm sitting here probably
14 hours a day just trying to learn stuff and I didn't know that, guess what Trump
just did, he just killed it last week, we're pulling out of it, and the UN's freaking
out, how on earth is the UN running who we bring in and then our government just accepts
it like they're the border patrol or their customs, that's how far gone our sovereignty
was, we were already 90% into world government and Trump's killing it all and it's like every
day it's something new, I can't even keep track of it, I just learned about this a year
and a half ago and Trump's in office and has killed it and then look at these headlines,
I was reading these articles this morning and they made me so upset that then I get
on air and I'm angry and that's why, I mean they're saying they're going to kill the
president, they're saying they're going to go ahead with impeachment, they've got indictments
ready, I mean that upsets me so I apologize if I get cranky on air and I'm a little cranky
with the crew and I've been really cranky the last week because this is so real folks
and now that we're delivering and starting to win, it makes it even crazier to watch
the economy come back and to see the enemy even matter that we're trying to fix things,
it makes me beyond hating them, this Paul Watson article though on info wars.com, everybody
should read this because it's not the Swedes that are being raped that are the story, I'm
sad for them, it's a big deal, it's terrible, the story is that the other Swedes won't
help them and that's the Stockholm syndrome, you just give up and you just go with the
flow, Sweden, migrant who participated in a 20 man gang rape of a woman tells police
it was fun, that's like the illegal alien in court this week in the US rape women, he
says he's proud of it and he'll do it again, he's been deported 20 times, 20 plus times,
a migrant, he's not an illegal alien or an invader, he's a migrant, use that word, who
took part in a 20 man gang rape with a woman in a suburb of Stockholm, Sweden, told police
the experience was a fun joke, close quote, the incident occurred last Sunday in the
Fatah area of the Swedish capital, 20 men were involved in the brutal gang rape which
took place in stairwell, but police were only able to identify and charge five of the culprits
all of whom were migrants from Somalia and Iraq, not invaders but migrants, the beater
had in the wall, had a knife, raped her according to 30 year old woman, the migrants discussed
who would get to use me first and because she was a woman they told the cops they did
it because they're Muslim, they're very proud of it, before pulling her up to the second
floor many stood waiting for their turn she added, the migrants smashed the woman's head
against her case, knocked her unconscious as well as threatening her with a knife, the
migrants laughed and filmed the scene on their cell phones as the attack unfolded, during
a police interview one of the attackers said the entire ordeal was a fun joke to the men,
the victim situation was made worse by the fact that when she attempted to get help from
locals in the apartment they either ignored her or insulted her and then when she went
bleeding and covered with semen, it's right here, they said you're a gross person we're
not going to help you, the Swedes did, see, pure demonic spoiled rotten selfishness as
they didn't even care as they were liberals, so what?
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products, Info
Wars Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean, enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or
try our bubblegum flavor, pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and super charge your oral health, our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times, instead of containing
fluoride our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other
beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits, super blue
fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients, xylitol, nano silver and iodine, notice the difference with our super
blue fluoride free products, refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at
infowarstore.com that's infowarstore.com I'm so excited, the new product at infowarslife.com
in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the
real red pill, this is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulates
in it, but boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that, quite frankly I just went off
what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription,
but they were charging people a hundred, two hundred dollars for the formulae and I came
up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers, non-GMO made right here in
America, 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it, which is the
precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your
glands, it is amazing, red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase fuzz
the operation.
Top scientists and researchers agree, we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid, so what do we do about it, well
for starters, don't just sit there and take it, fight back with the all new supercharged
brain force plus and fill the rust without the crash, brain force plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient
called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick, other ingredients include
vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch
and supercharge your state of mind, it's the real deal, brain force plus, secure your
bottle right now at infowarsstore.com, Matt and Ohio, you're on the air, another Matt,
go ahead.
Hey listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of info wars and
I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the info war, it might seem
like a simple thing, but particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right
now are absolutely amazing.
Well thank you, my favorite new one is the don't tread on me but said it says won't tread
on me and it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake and then it's got the American flag
infowars.com on the right arm, I mean that's a great way just to meet like minded people
and spread the word and also exercise free speech and the newest one is trigger warning
t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and
an infowars.com on the back, that is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at
infowars.com, you're listening to the Alex Jones show, you want answers, well so does
it, I'm covering a lot of this really negative news so we know about the threat so we understand
what's happening, it's not to demoralize you, it's not to put you down, it's to expose
it because they don't want this news out.
Continuing, this is from the Swedish newspapers, it's up on infowars.com, the victim's situation
was just beaten up and gang raped at knife point by 20 men, you imagine that, was made
worse by the fact that when she attempted to get help from the locals they either ignored
her or insulted her and that's the thing is a guy hitting on a woman they act like rape
but then they cover up rape and sex abuse and child abuse and pedophilia and women being
raped in Hollywood and they kind of just mix it all together like it's the same thing.
One man who lived in the area for 15 years saw the rape happening but did nothing because
in his own words he has learned not to see or hear much.
The woman who was labeled disgusting by another person because she had semen in her hair as
a result of the gang rape, according to attorney Elizabeth Massey Fritz the incident is one
of the worst rape incidents she's dealt with 26 years of practice saying the attackers
inflicted torture like trauma on her client.
Folks I have a bunch of video at the anti-racism pro-muslim rallies they have in Europe of
just guys lined up raping women that show up and the women are just bloody I mean it's
just incredible and it's just exploding but there's no coverage of it.
Stanley defense attorney romanticized illegal immigrant felon in blog posts and called him
so-called dangerous felon and said he was a wonderful person no he shot her dead and
he was deported a whole but five times.
I don't care if you're a white guy raping women an Hispanic guy I don't care where you're
from.
You've got criminals that use multiple identities to go back and forth in countries there are
a lot of serial killers come out of Latin America and to Mexico get caught there killing
people because they run across borders this is dangerous and the idea that we can't control
it is crazy.
Europe's migrant crisis millions still to come Gladstone Institute up on inforwars.com
the U.N. says they want to bring in 50 million North Africans you think 10 millions a crisis
Germany offers migrants 3,500 to leave voluntarily so Merkel knows she's about to get thrown
out there panicking meanwhile 3,108 since October 1st refugee admissions dropped by
489 percent as Trump withdraws from U.N. migration compact we're under U.N. control soon and
it takes like six months to get out so we won't be out till next year and again I have
stacks of these Norway Syrian migrant punches woman in the face 12 times that we're stealing
cell phone and there's photos and videos of it meanwhile just cuz Trump wants to slow
all this down he's a horrible bigot and a racist they have a big New York Times article
up we have a story about the New York Times were three times the last day they've said
Trump's is horrible racist without even having any proof they just say he's a Nazi meanwhile
we show articles where they say can white people be good or they just inherently evil
we show the New York Times with headlines a few weeks ago saying our whites just inherently
bad that's one step up from the article we covered last week at Texas State University
saying white DNA is an abomination that's literal race cult beyond the Nazis cuckoo
stuff it's like that's a white dog it's to the devil black dogs good or a black dog
bad white dogs good let me tell you something you have a Labrador trailer that's got white
skin or black skin and I've had a white one I've had a cream one not really white and
I've had a chocolate lab and a black lab my life and they all acted just the same they
were all funny and goofy and smart and had energy and they all got hip dysplasia and
died when they were 12 didn't care it didn't matter what color the melanin was there's
the chocolate one had chocolate skin and the black one had black skin and the white one
had pink skin and they were all just goofy sweethearts and it's the same imagine saying
white labs are inherently evil I mean it's just it's like it and it's like the most
racist crap I've ever heard and they're just spew and I know it's meant to make me racist
I know they want to just divide everybody now they want to get away from the Christian
ethos they found an article they're saying dogs are racist well it's true that if the
dog is being raised by a black family and isn't around a lot of white folks it might
market you because it's not used to your color it's true but it's not a racist thing it's
that it doesn't recognize you so anyways the point is is that this is getting crazy and
I've got a bunch of other stories I mean here's the problem I've got total overload I mean
I've got like 30 clips here that are all incredibly important Dershowitz Flynn plea is now a show
of witness for Mueller I totally agree all he's got after going after Manafort with no
Russia connections and there's no Russia indictment there now it's oh there's no Russian collusion
but you in a illegal transcript recorded view didn't tell the FBI exactly the way the call
went I mean if they asked me six months ago you talked to this person and said this I'd
be like huh but again the phone call is okay we put sanctions on you we hope you don't put
sanctions on us and we want to keep working with you as the to take out ISIS so that's
all they got but here it is let's go to that clip Dershowitz Flynn plea is a show of witness
for Mueller I totally agree here it is last thing any prosecutor wants to do is to have to indict
his primary witness for lying because if you indict your witness for lying it really means
he's not useful as a witness he has no credibility I'm sure the prosecutor was trying yeah uh
what that says is false informant what that says is is a fraud but talking to the Flynn family
they got cut off from Trump and he's agreed to talk about what he did because Flynn believes
nothing wrongs happened and he's not trying to burn Trump he's just been indicted because
they were surveilling him and claimed he didn't tell the whole story so again Flynn is a total
victim in this and Trump I know agrees that he was wrong to ever get rid of Flynn it's like
his lawyer everybody knows it's not Trump tweeting all the time his lawyer came out and he got chewed
out for coming out and tweeting on Trump's behalf Trump got rid of Flynn when the vice president came
in and said he didn't tell me about all these conversations when I asked him
and that's what happened also Mattis wanted him out of there it was really the other generals
didn't want to come in if Flynn was there okay let's go ahead go to another clip here
this is important on tax reform so I wanted to wanted to get through this one
Tim Scott shoots down Democrat criticism of tax reform you know they're spinning this
even on Fox they go Democrats think tax cuts are bad for the Republicans Republicans think
they're good you can debate taxes you can debate deficits you can debate the future but tax cuts
now to bring back four trillion in overseas money and to bring back trillions to middle class and
poor taxpayers is going to cause a giant boom in the economy bigger than we've already seen
most analysts say a 10 percent growth rate seven to 10 percent but but tens the middle some
estimates are 12 percent because they've had a suppress so long now is that going to be good
just in a Machiavellian way for the Republicans and for Trump yeah it's going to be good to have
four to six years of boom now if we don't cut or at least freeze spending
it'll create a big deficit like what happened with Reagan they got the tax cuts they never
got the cuts you've got to freeze the spending then you cut taxes more money comes in generally
because it spurs the economy then you pay down the debt with that that's what's got to happen
bare minimum freeze the spending but will tax cuts help the country there's a bear go poo poo
in the woods here's part of the clip I'm old enough to remember the 86 tax cut bill it took 15
months I'm just wondering I mean just as a as a simple yes or no I mean was this the process
that you had hoped for to have all these changes made at the last minute well they all say it this
way the last hearing that we had was a 23 hour hearing we had 63 democrat amendments that we
were offered the suggestion that this was not done in the light of day and the last minute
changes as they talk about them were last minute changes that had been envisioned for weeks we knew
at the end that there were be there would be dials that were changed so here's an example
we increased helping small businesses by about 2.4 percent that happened in the last hour or so
but that had been envisioned for the last 10 days because we had been talking about everybody knows
the spin in the mix I'm going to come back and play the rest of it oh by the way I guess what's
else is in there Obamacare repeal they said you could never repeal Obamacare they said you could
never get tax cuts you could never get a three percent growth rate you guys are losers you're
failing we're winning and we're winning making you rich what get out of the way
proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels up up
optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of b vitamins we
need every day up up up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines two bioactive
forms of vitamin b 12 for optimal absorption up up up optimal absorption being deficient in b
vitamins can cause fatigue depression poor memory and lethargists secret 12 up up up optimal absorption
b vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes
b vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system
up up up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b 12 intake head to
info wars life dot com and support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's info wars
life dot com mrx essential oils can help balance your sleep schedule and realign your sleep cycle
these essential oils are an inexpensive and effective way to bring aromatherapy into your home
experience the benefits of what nature can do for you with sense to help you relax and unwind
when life has you feeling down the sense of each of our essential oils can help you boost
your mood when using mrx essential oils there's no easier way to diffuse fragrances than with
this essential oils sent to fuse your pod experience the power of aromatherapy in any
room of your home with mrx essential oils headaches are a major inconvenience but essential oils can
help eliminate headaches and help reduce stress and anxiety when you're hard at work and need a boost
in your mental performance remember to use mrx essential oils to help increase your comprehension
and memory potential buy now and get what will soon become your favorite essential oil products at
infowarstore.com that's infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
from the front lines of the information war it's alex jones love me some merle haggard
that's the thing poncho went out in a big blaze of glory and lived forever lefty died an old sick man
and not the stuff of legends and now that's another lesson from life and it's restored
that dbl from our great chicago affiliate 1530 wskg is coming up i want to take a few more
of your calls here as i promised to do it's hard to focus on a lot of this but you as an audience
that care about this and have been involved you're the reason we're starting to turn the tide
and i'm not just patting you on the head it's not patronizing it's true so just know that
and the fact that it is always darkest before the dawn but then once the worm turns once the
bullies aren't fully on top of us and people see what prosperity can be like a whole new cycle begins
of prosperity and if we just remember freedom and don't let the same corruption come back in like
like mold spores or something we've got a pretty good future ahead of us doesn't mean some utopia
but but what is utopia it's not living in a dystopia and imperfection is our perfection
but the globalists really did want to just wreck the west and make everybody globally poor and do
some really nasty stuff and the fact is they know tax cuts for the middle class helps the economy and
pays off the debt the globalists want to deliver us into bankruptcy they want to conquer the nation
but trump and patriots and our intelligence agencies and and good factions and the american
people backing them people asked why didn't we do this earlier because folks weren't awake yet
they'd been asleep you educated them i educated them countless other people educated them
and people are aware now that we're not alone and we've changed the world
and now we're not asleep anymore to a great extent so now it's even harder for the globalists even
if they kill trump even if they remove trump even if they pull all this crap they're behind the eight
ball now because we're awake steven in florida you had a point about all this you say trump latest
evidence go ahead yeah hey i thank you appreciate it um by the way first of all i want to say i've
been calling your show about 10 years now or so i had a first today and this isn't a complaint it's
just to make you aware that you've had enough complaints today but uh when i i know when i've
gotten through it because then i hear your show on my phone it took about 22 minutes for the call
screener to finally get to me so i just wanted to you know make you aware of that because this phone
system can take like 30 phone calls at a time and and we've taken up to 25 000 calls in a show before
that shows that hit it so they're having to like go through all that and and you know i i get when i
take calls it's fun to complain but it kind of wrecks the experience you know what i mean because
we're having like a personal experience from you and i right now and uh we never even get to the point
but hey what's the latest evidence that trump's a risky agent okay um if here's what i want to get
to if these people are able to push through what they're now pushing with this false evidence
you know narrative it'll be for one reason only and that is because god has allowed it because
my bible says that the most high rule is from the kingdom of men and give it to whomsoever he will
i have no doubt trump is there by the appointment of god and here's what i want to get to if they
push this through if they're able to still push the agenda with all the false information all the
evidence coming about third criminality it's because god is allowed it here's why the main problem i see
with america and i think this is a christian elix i've run into this so much is the sin in the camp
it's the fake christianity the christians in america don't want to wake up the reality of what's
going on and i'm not talking about this the establishment churches and the negative i'm
talking about in general no i hear you i hear you i'm glad you're calling god through we'll be back
choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this
powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium's formula is
far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100 organic mustard seed our super high quality
nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99 percent ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals
this essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell
tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work
together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with this super
combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars life dot com
live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones and matt dubio with 15 30 w ckg our big
chicago affiliate on 15 30 but also on the fm and soon big announcements with that station
he is about to take over uh right now but i wanted to just briefly recap here here's the
headlines they're up on info wars dot com news wars dot com this is nbc news feinstein senate
russia probe building obstruction case against trump is president trump's legal team preparing
for an imminent obstruction of justice charge and the answer is yes but that's why presidents are
co-equal the other branches you just can't have some grand jury indict the president and he gets
out of office because then you'd have grand juries all the time doing that no president would stay
in power this is their program this is their plan this is their operation they're going to have to
impeach him in the house in the senate and the good news is finally we learn that the last 11 months
the inspector general of the justice department under attorney general jeff sesh's direction
has been criminally investigating muller the clinton's and this entire kangaroo operation
the doj has been investigating the fbi for 11 months that's up on info wars dot com house
intel chairman draws up contempt charges against fbi after stonewall republicans prepare for war
with fbi doj to file contempt action over anti-trump bias and that was forced out in the media
because the justice department was getting ready to release reports on this which they did release
today we wrote about it but it's almost gotten no coverage so my question to matt wbl as he takes
over here is this matt we know as long as there's a recovery they're not going to get an impeachment
in the house as long as we keep the house but they don't care they just seem to be going forward
even though they're all deep in bed with russia at a gut level as a smart guy as a business owner
as a family family man what do you think they're planning i mean they thought they're going to
steal the election they failed but they just don't know when to give up how do they remove
trump when he's clearly americana the economy's kicking back on he's doing everything he said he
do he has no russian connections they admit manifor or flin there's no russian collusion
they're just claiming they said something wrong in a statement when they're being legally surveilled
where do you see all this going the nfl's killing itself attacking the american people
hollywood's killing itself it's all falling down but they never know when to quit matt
dubio taking over from 15 30 a.m in chicago alex you know they they don't know when to quit but
that's why the power of the american people is so important that's why it's so vital that instead
of being the idiots who look at the emperor's new clothes and say yeah he's got a new suit on like
we did for the last eight years when he was naked now it's reversed and now the zombies the uh the
feinsteins and the and the the swamp inhabitants are looking up at the president who's got some
clothes he's got some schwagger he's got some actual things that he's putting into place and
they're looking at him and they're going he doesn't have it and if the people are stupid enough
to watch what those people say i mean we got to just stop listening to idiots that's the bottom
line you got to take a look at maxine waters you got to take a look at these people that have been
in the swamp they're up to here they're covered they're totally discredited known liars so of
course they're doubling down in lies that's all they've got this is the last desperate action
of the scallywags it's well and we're parents you know how this goes when you're you know you
ask your kid did you go in the cookie jar and they say no they're never going to admit it the first
time you keep asking him you watch him look away from you you watch him obfuscate you watch him
like point the finger at the brother or the sister that's what maxine and all these other morons are
doing and it's time for the american people to stand up and say you know what we're we're mad
as hell and we're not going to take it anymore we're not going to get angry we're not going to get
stupid we're not going to say stupid things but we are going to act we're going to act with our
dollars we're going to act with our votes we're going to pay attention to what's happening we're
going to we're going to make a list and we're going to check it twice and we're going to make
sure that maxine waters doesn't get back in we're going to make sure that quickly the congressmen
here in illinois that instead of focusing on the death toll problem alex there are 39 people that
were killed here in chicago 36 of them from gunshots mostly illegal guns and uh those people are the
ones that quickly should be focusing on instead he's talking to uh subcommittees and by the way 39
killed since when 39 was killed just in november wow just in november alex it's it's only i'm glad
you raised quickly i don't mean to he i don't know if you saw the hearings where he says i want alex
jones censored and facebook google and twitter goes sir we censored him at lunch he goes good it's
fake news yeah that a month that an isis guy attacked new york with a truck and it's like a real story
it's like not even real he's like saying i say isis didn't attack new york and that the mayor
wasn't warned and they go yes sir we shut alex jones down we shut paul wassen down i mean
what is up with pigley wiggly pigley wiggly's got to go and it's up to the people in chicago in the
suburbs you know his territory and they've rezoned these territories in chicagoland over and over
again and they keep gerrymandering because they're they're trying to keep the democratic machine here
in power now that's not to say that the republican machine is any great machine either i was just
talking to my kids yesterday about this fallacy of the two-party system however you got to play by
the rules of the game that are in place and in chicago in chicagoland he's playing by those rules
he's part of the democratic machine the guy's an idiot instead of fixing the problem instead of
talking to the mayor of chicago and the governor of illinois and trying to figure out why black
and brown kids are getting shot for no reason he's talking to people about what twitter should be
doing the guy's a complete moron why is he talking about what twitter should be doing why is he
talking about censoring the news why is he talking about saying that you're making false claims
saying that info wars is fake news when abc is fake news when cnn is fake news yeah what do you
make of abc putting out that flin was gonna report that that they did collude with the rushes during
the campaign none of it was true but still i see them sending videos out of that today i don't i don't
know anybody who can who can listen to what abc says what cnn says i mean just i you played the
jake tapper clip a few minutes ago in in the last segment of the previous hour and i'm just watching
and i'm thinking like who listens to this turd tapper to get their information about the world
when i look to people that i listen to i i i ask myself who am i going to listen to who am i going
to take their advice who am i going to trust and the people that i will listen to i'm still
going to fact check but i want to listen to people that i believe truly care and truly
love themselves and love me and love this country i don't get that vibe when i look at jake tapper
i don't get that vibe when i look at that moron on abc what's his name haas or boss or ross yeah
ross all they've got is arrogance too and as they as they implode they just get more arrogant
they just i mean they just never go away i'm so sick of these people well they're better than us
and that's the other fallacy is is these people somehow think these americans these that have been
sleeping for so long the reason why these people are in power the reason why maxine is where she is
the reason why ross is on television is because we've been asleep at the wheel we've been allowing
these morons to lie to us and haven't been holding them accountable that's the swamp should have been
drained years ago it's an awakening that's happening among american people unfortunately
you have delusional people waking up on both sides that think that different worlds are happening
the real story here is people need to pay attention the citizens need to unite and focus on holding
everyone accountable and stop taking the spoon fendt garbage from abc and cbs and by the way matt
dubio is really a good talk show didn't he folks i'm not even like what i know you about eight nine
years it's been a long time well i'm really excited you've been carrying us off and on for
eight nine years and takeover i'm gonna stop interrupting and i can't wait to get you kind
of core back on one of your own shows when i had some more broadcast here we're getting more crew
hired they're doing a great job we had a caller earlier saying hey you know i'm on hold for 20
minutes well it's because we got you know one person doing two jobs in there bro and that's why
we're not taking a lot of calls is it's really a full-time job when you take calls uh so we are
a work in progress we will admit it to you all day long that info wars is a working project
and we are not a teleprompter operation they don't just cover talking points all day long we're just
real people who want to have a future and who aren't out to get you i mean i think that's what it
really comes down to so matt dubb wl w c k g 15 30 a.m and and give folks the fm address as well
102.3 fm in chicago if you're in elmhurst oak brook and and we're going to be moving that 102.3
to a very big building very big it's the perhaps the biggest almost the biggest very huge very large
it's fantastic tremendous you're gonna love it big big deal big building
on top of it and very large like we got an initiative all over the country info wars
gonna be on top of certain buildings
hello mr. randerson the nsa has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites
we have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist tired of your internet activity being
monitored by big brother get virtual shield dot com the world's easiest to use virtual private
network brows the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust get started
today at virtual shield dot com take advantage of our free 30 day trial virtual shield dot com
you have the right to remain private fully cooked ready to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty
center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious i buy some i use some i store some awesome no
refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked fully
hydrated ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve life saving ready to eat bacon
10 year shelf life bacon ships free at fully cooked bacon dot com fully cooked bacon dot com
water is the single most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for
you and your family since 2005 thousands have depended on burky purified water the burky guy
provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now
and in an emergency get to go burky dot com or call 877-886-3653 877-886-3653 go burky dot com
if you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure then check out slingbow.com for some
unique holiday gift ideas that's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products for
the archer hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family now through january use the promo
code holiday to get free shipping in the us or canada and from all of us at slingbow industries
have a safe joyous and peaceful holiday season i'm so excited the new product at inforwarslife.com
in a glass bottle two month servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red
bill this is a heart and brain pill a new tropic but doesn't have any stimulants in it but boy
does it stimulate because it's beyond that quite frankly uh i just went off what i saw medical doctors
prescribing to their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people
a hundred two hundred dollars for the formulae and i came up with our own formula working with
scientists and developers non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen
you add the preglonone to it which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to
even make the hormones in your glands it is amazing red pill now available at inforwarsstore.com
and your purchase fuzz the operation i want to plow into all of this that i'm going to spend a few
minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or
water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from inforwarstore.com you are funding
the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at inforwarstore.com i want to thank everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free
toothpaste with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that
for children and adults we've got the best mouthwash designed by dr jones that's my dad
the colloidal silver and iodine as well inforwarslife.com or triple eight two five three three one three
nine and your purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and
they know we know who they are and they're coming back against us so we need your support
you're listening to the alex jones show
for every question they don't want you to ask
he has the answer they don't want you to hear he is alex jones
it's matt dubio filling in for alex jones on the the mighty inforwars.com forward slash show
from chicago from the wckg studios here we broadcast on am 15 30 in chicago and fm 102.3
i've been saying today on social media that uh you know i love coming in here i love talking
with you it's uh it's an hour i look forward to and i typically rotate on monday's back and
forth with with jack and it's something i look forward to and and some of the things i want to
talk with you today are are on my mind uh one of those is the the nfl situation not the national
anthems with the nfl but you know they're talking about these stadiums being empty
and uh people attending the games less and less you'll hear guys like me guys like alex
david knight and so on say that it's because of the the national anthem flap and the kneeling and
all that sort of stuff and part of that's true uh there's really another undertone to that and i
want to talk about that uh coming up i also want to talk about facebook's initiative facebook is
trying to connect you and i to our children facebook cares and they want to connect us to
our children and the the keyword here is connect they want to connect your children i want to talk
about that coming up uh also a lot of folks have been talking about this tax break situation and
trump's tax break and the republicans got it through and you know this is going to be great
and they say it's going to be terrible i have a different take on it all together i don't think
that you should even think about the tax situation and i'll explain why uh but as i was sitting here
getting ready and watching alex i actually do listen to the show on my own station i actually
do watch alex i watch david knight and oh and and some of the other hosts that are doing shows here
because uh we're in it man we're in it okay it's not just uh where we don't have these shows on
this radio station because it's sensational or because it's uh you know new though or because
it's sexy we're we do this because we're in it and uh i'm in it with you so i was watching alex
and i flipped over to drudgereport.com and i see the story at drudgereport.com as as i'm planning
intending fully to talk about these other things that are on my mind and something just kind of
stuck in my craw i'm uh i'm not that old i'm only 41 but i say old timey phrases like stuck in my
craw it's just part of my uh old school upbringing but something stuck in my craw and the thing that's
stuck in my craw is this headline this is cnn acosta says journalists have to resist now uh
there was a guy i don't know if you call him a journalist or not uh he was a former sportscaster
and he really annoying really unlikable guy named keith oberman and uh he's been on twitter for a
while he started doing a little cute little web series from his i think his mother's basement
and and it sounded very echoey so it might have been in the bathroom in his mother's basement
and he called the show the resistance and it was pretty it was pretty funny because uh you know for
years now info wars and alex jones have been saying you are the resistance keith came in and said i'm
gonna i'm gonna do a show for a magazine called gq that's failing and we're gonna call it the
resistance and we're gonna be smarmy and liberal and it's gonna take off like gangbusters and and
it didn't it failed miserably and uh not only did it fail miserably across the spectrum but it more
importantly more notably it failed miserably among liberal people that should be really into his
sort of content so this concept that uh quote unquote journalists uh have to resist i think first
we have to define what the hell the journalist is it really stuck in my craw because uh accosta
is a reporter for cnn and uh i wouldn't call myself a reporter but i was at the trump rally in
chicago and then candidate donald trump was running for president and had scheduled an appearance to
be at the um at a college campus here for a trump rally and i got press passes because i'm in the
press uh even though i wouldn't call myself a i wouldn't necessarily say i'm a journalist or a
reporter i'm definitely in the press so i was in the press box my wife and i went and as as many
of you know who have followed the campaign one of these sort of political theater events happened
where the event was shut down it was canceled by trump but it was canceled because it was taken over
by what is essentially antifa uh it was taken over by a fund a group funded by george soros
under the guise of seiu which is an acronym for something some commie organization of some sort
that pays people 10 and 15 an hour to come and disrupt events now i'm telling you about this
this event and you could see my video after the fact if you go to my facebook page it's the one
with the blue check mark that says matt dubial and i did a video immediately following that experience
because it got so bad inside these paid agitators who were part of a sort of antifa like group
they were not trump supporters the trump supporters were there and the trump supporters were exactly
who you'd expect them to be they were retirees they were grandparents they were parents they were
americans waving the red white and blue they were beautiful people there to support what they believed
to be a really great movement a really big movement a tremendous movement the best movement
and they were great and they were there in droves and what happened was they got paid seiu people
got paid 10 and 15 an hour to disrupt this event one of the guys i saw in the press pit
it and overheard in the press pit was was a costa a costa at that point was basically
just a very low level cnn reporter he was in the field on the road i don't know that anybody
really knew his name i just remember his face and i remember listening in and watching him and
hearing him talk to the other reporters you should hear what he said to the other reporters
you should hear the things he was saying i might have some of them on my phone because we were
recording and and you know you hear everything and the way that he was talking about the people
american people was along the lines of hillary and heard deplorable gaff when she called trump
supporters deplorables if you would have heard the things that jim costa was saying about the
trump supporters if you would have heard the things that jim costa was saying about trump
and the candidacy and the campaign in general as an objective journalist and reporter you might
become sick to your stomach i believe that good people that are liberal and and democratic if
they would have heard the things he was saying at that point would have been sick to their stomach
i believe that if the managers and the um the editors at cnn would have heard those things
if they were a real news organization if they were a professional institution if they would
have heard these things they would have pulled them and they would have said well wait a minute
we can't have somebody that says says these things and thinks these things covering an
event like this this guy is not objective there's a reason why jim costa is that his first name
jim is i'm just gonna call him a costa i don't i don't want to make it it's famous thank you
it is jim costa i don't i'm really against this idea of making moron's famous it's something we
all have to stop um one of the dumbest things hillary did was mention alex jones name not because
he's moron he's not a moron but she gives power and promotes alex jones now people go and they
want to find out more okay who's this guy what's it about the haters could become people that are
listening a little bit so i don't really want to give a costa any attention but this a costa guy
is going to be in the news and he's going to push himself in the news as part of the quote
unquote resistance and the reason why is he's a failed reporter at a failed network that's for sale
jim needs a job jim wants a jobby job he wants somebody else to hire him he's looking for employment
elsewhere he's looking to make a name for himself he's hoping that those who hire guys like him will
see that he can get attention and he has followers and then they will give him a gig this is rampant
and it's happening more and more i'll share with you exactly why and how it works coming up next
more with info wars dot com forward slash show from chicago a commemorative president trump dollar
for only five dollars yes the historic trump dollar starts at only five dollars at trump dollar dot us
choose from our unique three coin collection in gold silver and copper the vote trump dollar
inaugural trump dollar and make america great again trump dollar available only at trump dollar
dot us minted in the usa our trump dollars commemorate president trumps patriotic stand
order your trump dollar collection today in time for christmas delivery at trump dollar dot us
that's trump dollar dot us hey daniel bremen why new manna storeable foods we believe in freedom
america needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead and we take this charge seriously
we got options organic no gluten without the chemicals great taste and value new manna is a
no-lose investment for your family's food independence it's your new manna today called
triple eight five nine seven zero seven seven five triple eight five nine seven zero seven seven five
online discounts available at power prepper dot com power prepper dot com
enjoy all natural bath and beauty products with emmerich's essentials we are proud to bring you
a collection of organic based household products at info war store dot com including non nano spf
30 zinc oxide sunscreen date free herbal bug spray concentrated peppermint mouthwash
unscented body wash tea tree shampoo and long lasting natural deodorant emmerich's essentials
is free of chemicals and toxins that may harm your body we carefully select pure and simple
ingredients to create formulas that are certified usda make with organic our mission is to offer you
everyday organic household products to enhance your life truly feel the difference by going
organic natural without compromising on quality feel good about using emmerich's essentials
start saving money and stop exposing yourself and your family to toxic ingredients visit info
war store dot com and learn more about the new emmerich's essentials line of organic products
that's info war store dot com you deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info war's life
our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract
l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you
through the night and achieve proper sleep millions of people around the world experience
daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace
our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need wake up refreshed and take on the day info war's life wants to bring
you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price
get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life
dot com and say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com after years of research working
with top developers here in the united states with the latest cutting-edge science we are rolling out
three new digestive gut aids one of them is a powerful pro digestive enzyme carnivore for being
able to break down meat other proteins better and then the other two is a powerful 50 billion
live probiotic culture of the very best strains in floral life advanced restoration and we also
have an everyday extremely affordable floral life everyday maintenance but all of these are the very
cutting edge top of the line probiotics and digestive enzymes at an extremely affordable price
that is my goal here is to bring you the very best at the lowest price when you purchase it an
info wars store dot com you know you are also financing the attack on the globalist and the
defense of our republic and freedom worldwide you're listening to the alex jones show
it's matt dubio from chicago the murder murder capital of the midwest definitely the murder
capital of the united states it's arguable they try and conflate the the figures to make it seem
like uh based on population it's not that bad but it's bad there's already eight people shot and
killed in chicago in the month of december it's only the fourth of december i mean it is los
vegas in slow motion every month in chicago nobody cares nobody talks about it we talk about it we
focus on it on the top of every newscast on wckg here am 15 30 fm 102.3 wckg.com you can see the
the statistics they're they're sobering at chicago's alternative.com because we post the news there
so you see that 36 people died from gunshot wounds in november 39 of 39 people died in
november in chicago homicides car jackings are up i mean things are just out of control and here
we are it's the holiday season it's the uh the time to be thinking about others and the time to be
giving all jimacosta cares about is trying to find a new job and and here's how you know that's
what's going on the megan kelly did the same thing okay i see this stuff a mile away it's uh
maybe because i'm in that business i don't know but i see it a mile away what they do is they
posture first and they they telegraphed everybody that they're not what you think they are so megan
kelly had to posture and show the world well i'm not this uh this just this conservative talking
head i'm versatile i'm different i can also throw it to the you know i can give the republicans some
trouble i can do this i can do that and then she uses it when her when it's time to find a new gig
that's what accost is trying to do uh that's what the nfl is is doing and i'm gonna get into that
the reason why the nfl is failing isn't because of the kneeling issue okay that's expediting it
it's speeding it up it's making it go much faster very very fast um the fastest destruction perhaps
in in major sports but that's not the cause it's actually part of that there's a cause before that
which is why they're doing it i'm gonna get into that in a minute um i just uh we were just holiday
shopping my wife and i were just christmas shopping for friends and family and inevitably
we're thinking about like what do we get people and the best thing that i think you can do right now
is get people things that will help them and get them from places that do good things what better
place to do that than the info war store and right now if you get gift cards for christmas at 10
percent off in the info war store so infowarstore.com and here's what i recommend rather than just get
like a gift card that you know and then just give it to somebody and say here you go especially somebody
that doesn't maybe know what info wars is you get them like a $50 gift card a hundred bucks
hundred fifty dollars or whatever so they can get a few things i'll give you an example i was at my
family christmas party for the the italian family we've been doing this for a hundred years i obviously
i personally haven't been there for a hundred years but the the family party's been going on for a
hundred years one of my cousins asked me about brain force okay and she said you know i've been
seeing you alex on alex jones you know do you really take brain force yes and that's why this one
is empty i'm out there's some rattling in here but it's that little cellula it's the thing that
soaks up the moisture in this one is empty i took two this morning after eight breakfast so instead
of just getting some generic gift card and then hoping that they find their way i recommend you get
them like a hundred bucks gift card you know you print out the the piece of paper or whatever it is
and then you give them a couple of recommendations of things that you like and then you pop it in
there and say here's what you can do with it info war store dot com info war store dot com
info war store dot com i don't need to tell you that helps support everything why wouldn't
why would you shop at some dopey place like amazon and get garbage that you're gonna have to send
back anyway shop at a place where you know the money's going to good stuff and the people are
doing good things uh that guy that called and was was griping about the call screener by the way
the the stephen info wars are like the best in broadcasting i'm not just saying that because
they're controlling my microphone right now i'm saying it because it's true so um they do it like
a hundred percent better than anybody else if you want info wars to get bigger then go buy more
stuff there that's how it works um anyway back to the nfl in fact this ties into the nfl here's why
the nfl is struggling the nfl is struggling and the seats are empty at the bears games the seats
are empty at the uh patriots games the seats are empty at various games around the country okay and
everyone is saying that it's because of the kneelers they're saying that it's because of the
national anthem but this trend has been happening for years and years it's going on and it's been
going on for some time and there's a reason for this and people that have been going to professional
sporting events if you've ever taken your kid to a baseball game or uh someone you love an east or
a nephew or your family i have four kids and typically when we go someplace a lot of times
we'll bring a friend with for the kids or we'll bring my uh my parents or in-laws or whoever so
now you got seven eight people going someplace okay do the math on how much it costs to take
three four five six seven people to a professional sporting event it costs $50 alone just to park
at soldier field in chicago let alone the tickets then you out you factor in what they're going to
charge you for something to drink for something to eat the reason why those stadiums in the nfl
are getting emptier and emptier day by day and this is the truth this is what they don't want
you to know about this is what they're not talking about it's because of the erosion of the middle
class it's because the gap between those who have disposable money to spend on those sorts of things
and those who don't is getting wider and wider and wider and the lie is that you're in the middle
class the lie is that you're in the middle class you think you're in the middle class it's it's
like asking people on the street if they're a democrat or a republican and then reconciling
that to what the definition of a democrat or republican is most people don't even know what
the real definition is they just think they align a certain way most of us think that we're in the
middle class do you know that a million dollars is not enough to retire anymore if you're middle
class do you know that the average american doesn't have five thousand dollars saved the average
american doesn't have even twenty five hundred dollars saved if you figure out how much it costs
to go to a baseball game or a football game the reason why there are dwindling attendance records
is because more and more people are taking that money and they're buying a big plasma screen or
an lcd screen for their house because they can use it over and over again and they're staying and
they're already paying their mortgage and their electric bill and all of the other utilities and
their high-speed internet and they've already invested in that stuff and it's much simpler and
much more cost effective and less hassle and much more enjoyable to go and watch it in your own home
and invite people over than it is to waste money to go and make millionaires more rich and ostensibly
billionaires even more rich by the way here's here's a here's a fun little question and if you think
you know the answer tweet it to me at mad on air how much is a billion dollars how many millions
is one billion dollars ask ten people on the street how much a billion dollars is
ask them to define a billion dollars we all know what a million dollars is right it's a thousand
thousands seems kind of somewhat attainable it's why for years and years middle class middle
americans have aspired to become millionaires it seems attainable it's a thousand thousands
many of you will make a million dollars in your lifetime most of us won't hold a million dollars
in our lifetime and even if you get a million dollars in your lifetime and save a million dollars
according to the statistics a million dollars isn't going to be enough for you to retire in a
middle class lifestyle that's why this tax plan doesn't really matter friend it doesn't have anything
to do with how much the money money the government is taking from you yeah it would be great if they
didn't take so much it has to do with the amount of money you're making what you're doing to make
that money and what kind of power you have with that dollar and one of the reasons why bitcoin
is over 10 000 it's probably over 11 000 right now isn't because bitcoin is worth so much
it's because your dollar isn't worth almost anything it's because the dollar value
is going down and down and down a billion dollars used to be something different today
the definition of a billion dollars is only a thousand millions those billionaires don't have
as much money as you think there's something going on with the economy that no one's talking about
coming up we're going to talk about facebook and what they want to do to connect you with your
kids it's up next i'm so excited the new product at info wars life dot com in a glass bottle two
months servings filled to the brim filled to the absolute top the real red pill this is a heart
and brain pill a new tropic but it doesn't have any stimulus in it but boy does it stimulate
because it's beyond that quite frankly uh i just went off what i saw medical doctors
prescribing their patients but it wasn't prescription but they were charging people 100
200 for the formulae and i came up with our own formulae working with some scientists and developers
non-gmo made right here in america 120 capsules and ladies and gentlemen you add the preglonone to
it which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones
in your glands it is amazing red pill now available at info wars store dot com and your
purchase fuzz the operation please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that
will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win
number one when you choose auto ship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at
info wars store dot com number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you
sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three
we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this
for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products that you need each month
just go to info wars store dot com select your favorite product or products click on auto ship
and choose how often you want us to send you another order as you know i coined the term 360 win
and with the new auto ship feature in info wars life dot com this is a sure win 10 off on auto
ship win win win at info wars life dot com free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of
stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels
up optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of b
vitamins we need every day up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines
two bioactive forms of vitamin b 12 for optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient
in b vitamins can cause fatigue depression or memory and lethargy secret 12 optimal absorption
b vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes b
vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system
up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b 12 intake head to info
wars life dot com support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's info wars life dot
com men give your body the support it needs with info wars life prostaguard it's time to start
assisting the body in regulating proper prostate balance info wars life has set out to bring you
formulations that are not only the highest quality out there but formulas that you can use on a daily
basis to give your body the natural herbs and extracts that our experts recommend the prostaguard
formula does just that with this mixture of plant based nutrients and antioxidants that help give
your body total support it's a hand selected blend of saw palmetto lycopene plant sterols zinc vitamin
d3 selenium and copper prostaguard is something that the men on the info wars crew take every day
and from our research it's something that men should really be adding to their daily regimen in
order to keep their body going at optimal levels now's the time to start naturally supporting
your body get prostaguard on your side today exclusively at info wars life dot com that's info
wars life dot com you're listening to the alex jones show waging war on corruption it's alex
jones coming to you live from the front lines of the info war it's bad you'll in for alex jones for
the fourth hour for monday december fourth already eight dead in chicago sadly it's uh was vegas in
slow motion every day here in chicago and uh it's got to stop somebody's got to do something about it
facebook wants to connect me to my children they believe that the best way to connect me to my
children is to uh is to connect the children to the facebook there's not enough people using
facebook so they want me to give they want you and i to give the children to the facebook so facebook
can lull them into a little sleep and make them digital idiots like the rest of us who spend way
too much time on social media don't you think that's a good idea as you think about turning your
children over to facebook in an app where they can use the same features to make the little
mouse face and the and help the social recognition software improve itself and the ai build up
intelligence on how the faces work and all that stuff when you think about doing that with your
children or i should say letting your children have that done to them by the facebook think about
any other institutions that you've turned your children over to over the years and how it's gone
daycare centers what happens when you send your kids to daycare how does it go how does it work
out for you i don't know i'm asking because i don't send my kids to daycare i never have uh we
we don't do that we our kids have never had a babysitter that isn't family i'm not judging you
but when i look at what happens in daycare centers what i look at what happens with our most important
i don't even i don't want to say assets because my children aren't assets my children are they're
part of me they're part of of my dna and and my love they they embody everything i'm here for
or i can't even imagine handing them over to facebook and saying yeah let me let me let them
connect you when i think about what the facebook experience is like in the beginning it was really
cool it's like it's like if you ever started smoking back when you were a teenager and back
when you know in the 80s and the 90s when people smoked before vaping and all this other stuff came
out and and you started smoking because it was kind of cool and other people were doing it and
then you could you know and then eventually you went oh this isn't really good i don't really
feel good when i'm doing this i should probably stop doing this but then you talk yourself
into continuing and you're like well i just won't do it as much i'll just have one every now and then
so you pop on facebook every now and then and just like a cigarette every one that you have
is not as good as the last one and before you know it you're like man i get on this facebook and
i get angry i see things i don't want to see i see sides of people i don't want to see i don't
like facebook and then you're snapping at people because you were on facebook is that the experience
you want for your six to twelve year old it seems like some people on facebook surprisingly enough
are pretty excited about it today at facebook this is this is from facebook messenger today
at facebook we're excited to introduce messenger kids a new app that makes it easier for kids to
safely video chat and message with family and friends here's what i do when i want to talk to
my kids check this out what i do is like tonight we're having italian chicken and my wife is making
it and then we're so what we're going to do is we're all going to get together in the same room
room all four children 15 13 10 and 5 and both parental units we're all going to get into the
same room and we're going to sit down at this thing called a dinner table and we're going to
break bread although we probably won't have any bread but we're going to have italian chicken
and we're going to eat the chicken together and then we're going to talk to each other with our
mouths and look at each other with our eyes and the it's this amazing thing happens because you
have software a software like system in your brain that interprets the vibrations from the other
people's mouths through your eyes and through your mouths and then you have what's called a
conversation that's what we're going to do at our house but the rest of the morons around the
united states and around the planet are going to get involved in the early phases of connecting
their children to the matrix the beta version of the matrix which is facebook which is snapchat
which is twitter and everything else and you could say yeah well you know you're on facebook
man yes i am and and and not a day goes by when i don't think gosh i wonder what would happen if
i never would have told my wife about this thing called facebook back in 2008 or 2007
she would have found it on her own she would she's an adult her brain is done developing
but the concept of uh you know when you look at these research studies and you find out what is
involved in in the development of a child's brain from the time that they're six years old until
they're 12 years old and then you look into what what they're exposed to when they put these devices
next to their heads which pretty much every expert tells you don't put the device next to your head
don't hold the device next to your head if you have to use something use headphones or something
else because this device is a nuclear device it's a it's got radiation in it and it's going to heat
up the cells in your brain and if especially if you're a developing young mind that's maybe six
seven eight years old or higher it's not good for your mind pretty much all these studies are coming
out that's saying this in addition to that right you have only a few years of having these devices
out on on the planet so we also don't have enough information but the information we do have on social
media everything points to less screen time less use of devices especially especially if you're
a developing young brain so why in the world would facebook one of the biggest companies on
planet earth perhaps the biggest communication monopoly on planet earth why would facebook
suggest to you and your children and your family that you hook your kids up to a platform that
requires them to use these devices more to fry their brains more and make them stupider why would
they do that you think they don't have the data you think they haven't been watching everything
that's going on with with algorithms number one and then with medical research and habits all
this stuff is habit-forming and what's happening is people are unplugging people are stopping
adults are ceasing to use these platforms as much you have smart people that never got on them in
the first place so we know that facebook we know there's data okay we know that facebook has this
data even if they didn't come up with it just like the cigarette companies just like the pharmaceutical
companies just like the cellular companies just like the water pollution monitors in the FDA we
know that there's research out there that these companies have access to and if there's research
out there that has to do with your company and your facebook you're the zuckerbergs are you
going to look at that research no matter what of course you are there's email chains there's a data
flow there's a paper trail or a digital trail of them knowing about all of the downsides of you
and i using this stuff and the downsides of developing brains using this stuff and yet
they're happy to announce they're excited to introduce messenger kids now there's a reason why
facebook wasn't set up for people under 13 in the beginning and look at what's happened but
the problem for facebook and all of these social platforms is you and i are using them less and
so they need to train the the new generation the younger folks to use them more so they need to
get it in that's why they have chromebooks at their school that's why they got them on on google's
programs at school that's why they had them using max when we were in school and pc's before that
and it's a it's a very dangerous slip slippery slope the beauty is is you have the choice in
the united states you can choose to do it or not to do it it's your choice it's not for me to decide
except for what we're doing in our house but boy oh boy why in the world would facebook suggest
that you do this with your kids when they know full well all the downsides my name is matt and i
am the general manager of wckg here in chicago we carry the alex jones show every day monday through
friday david night and real news every morning and we're growing we're building and we just
got these in these are uh this is our fm station 102.3 in chicago and i would like to send these one
of these at least to everybody in chicago that is within an earshot of our radio stations and if
you would take a moment and go to wckg.com slash support i will mail you anybody that helps us out
with our growth and our building of this radio station we're making the am more powerful we're
making the fm we're putting it on a taller building a building you might recognize if you want details
go to trump1530.com it's uh it's how you can help it's how we can reach you it's a way for us to
connect with you without making you hold one of these all the time we can send you an email you
can email us back and you can help us build a radio station that not only will help get the
information that we need to get out here in chicagoland but it will help in full wars with a
news outlet to support them you know sometimes these reporters can't get credentials wckg being a
radio station can help with your help we can do it thanks for listening thanks for joining us
from chicago the unfortunately the murder capital of the united states it's matt dubial signing off
for info wars i am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars
biome defense probiotic we wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known
probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function our
researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on
the market secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at info wars life
dot com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally we've been testing
this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the public so please take advantage
of it today support your own health and support the info war mrex essential oils can help balance
your sleep schedule and realign your sleep cycle these essential oils are an inexpensive and effective
way to bring aromatherapy into your home experience the benefits of what nature can do for you with
sense to help you relax and unwind when life has you feeling down the sense of each of our essential
oils can help you boost your mood when using mrex essential oils there's no easier way to diffuse
fragrances than with this essential oils scent diffuser pod experience the power of aromatherapy
in any room of your home with mrex essential oils headaches are a major inconvenience but essential
oils can help eliminate headaches and help reduce stress and anxiety when you're hard at work and
need a boost in your mental performance remember to use mrex essential oils to help increase your
comprehension and memory potential buy now and get what will soon become your favorite essential oil
products at infowarstore.com that's infowarstore.com you're listening to the alex jones show
