We're live, it's Friday. Stay with us, we've got huge breaking news. They caught the women
they were paying off fly about Trump.
The House Judiciary Committee was a spectacle of division as Democrats and Republicans grilled
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The Republicans feverishly attacking all of the
revelations surrounding the FBI's political power play and the fraudulent Steele dossier.
What in the hell is going on with the Department of Justice and the FBI? The reason we have
special counsel, this is a very important point, and you know it, the reason we have
special counsel is because of a conflict of interest. The regulation itself specifically
makes reference to a conflict of interest, and we don't like conflicts of interest because
it undercuts people's confidence in both the process and the result. So let's be really
clear why we have special counsel. There was either a real or perceived conflict of interest
that we were fearful would either impact the result or people's confidence in the process.
That's why we have something called special counsel, and that's why we have special counsel
in this fact pattern. And then lo and behold, those who are supposed to make sure there
are no conflicts of interest seem to have a few of their own. There's a senior prosecutor
who sent obsequious emails to a fact witness. She can be described as nothing other than
a fact witness. She's a really important fact witness. If you pursue the line of inquiry
that my Democrat friends want to pursue, they got off of collusion and now they're on obstruction
of justice, she may be the most important fact witness in an obstruction of justice case.
And the senior prosecutor for this conflict of interest-free special counsel sent a falling
obsequious email to a fact witness. And then we have prosecutors assigned to conduct this
investigation who donated almost exclusively to one candidate over another, and then we
have a prosecutor assigned to this conflict of interest-free team that attended what was
supposed to be, what he'd hoped to be, a victory party for Secretary Clinton. And we have a
senior DOJ official, Mr. Deputy Attorney General, with an office that used to be two doors down
from yours. Meeting with Fusion GPS, and Fusion GPS, of course, was paying for Russian dirt
on the very person that they're supposed to be objectively investigating. And then that
same senior DOJ official's wife, the one that met with Fusion GPS, his wife was on the payroll
of Fusion GPS. While the Democrats continued to hold President
Trump's feet to the fire, ignoring any wrongdoing. I take it your judgment on Mr. Mueller has
not changed today. Correct. And you would not have appointed a special counsel or appointed
Mr. Mueller if you thought he was going to engage in a witch hunt, correct? Correct.
And so you then would disagree with the President's labeling of the special counsel's investigation
as a witch hunt, I assume. I don't know exactly what the President meant
by that, Congressman. The special counsel's investigation is not a witch hunt.
On top of the stinking pile of deception, Paul Joseph Watson added one more revelation.
Paul writes, amidst the 10,000 messages sent between anti-Trump FBI agent Peter Struck
and lawyer Lisa Page is a bizarre exchange revealing how the two almost certainly with
Deputy FBI Director Andy McCabe discussed an insurance policy in case Donald Trump won
the presidential election. It reads, I want to believe the path you threw out for consideration
in Andy's office that there is no way Trump gets elected. But I'm afraid we can't take
that risk. Struck wrote to his mistress, adding, it's like an insurance policy in the unlikely
event you die before you're 40. Wall Street Journal columnist Kimberly Strassel remarked,
Press is focusing deliberately on Struck Tech's expressing hostility to Trump and noting it
is OK for agents to have political opinions. Press needs to focus on the messages suggesting
he'd act on that hostility insurance policy, which is not OK. None of this is OK. Clearly,
if Hillary had won the presidency, we would have never heard about half of this. But she
didn't. And this may only be the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the fallout as the
Clinton machine crashes on the White House lawn. John Bown reporting for InfoWars.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, we'll be back. Major shoes have dropped. Everybody's attuned in
right now to local stations and infowars.com for a pleasure. I'm so excited. The new product
at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled to
the absolute top, the real red bill. This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that
doesn't have any stimulants in it. But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription. But they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae.
And I came up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers. Non-GMO made
right here in America, 120 capsules. And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglonone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands. It is amazing. Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and
your purchase funds the operation.
You can run on for a long time, run on for a long time, run on for a long time. Sooner
or later, gotta cut you down. Sooner or later, gotta cut you down. Go tell that long-tongue
liar, go and tell that mid-night writer, tell the rambler, the gambler, the backbiter, tell
them it's gonna cut him down. Tell them it's gonna cut him down.
That's Johnny Cash. Cut you down.
Broadcasting worldwide on this Friday transmission. Thank you so much for joining us. I'm your
host, Alex Jones. We're gonna be here for the next four hours. There is a lot of just
over-the-top incredible news, obviously, but one of the biggest ones is breaking. It's
up on infowars.com. It's on newswars.com. It's from The Hill. Of course, it's on drugsreport.com.
Exclusive prominent lawyer sought donor cash for two Trump accusers. Now, as I told you
a few months ago and as I told you earlier this week, our sources are that there are
20 or more, the numbers growing, of women that have taped prominent Democrats and prominent
media people offering them money, big money, hundreds of thousands of dollars. Bill O'Reilly
has heard the tapes of one of the women. And I'd heard months ago about the $200,000 in
that particular case just from sources. I didn't actually talk to him or hear it like
Riley did. So kudos to Glenn Beck and Bill O'Reilly for what, three days ago, forcing
this out because that's what infowars is able to do. It's what drugsreport is able to do.
It's what talk radio and big independent libertarian truth-based sites are able to do. We are able
to force things out that the media is already sitting on. Remember Roger Stone and others
broke here two and a half months ago that McMaster was at a particular restaurant, particular
place and who he was with and that he said, oh, I just got up the phone with that idiot
Moron. All he can do is use Twitter. He's so stupid. I'm afraid he's going to blow the
planet up and that McMaster was a slob and drunk. Now, we knew the New York Post sat
on that. The New York Times sat on that. We were giving it because they sat on it. And
then two months later, two and a half months later, it broke what two weeks ago, exactly
as we said at the very restaurant, all of it confirmed. That's our job is to not get
the attention or even be praised for what we do. It's to force the media to cover it.
That's our real power because before they could cover stuff up like that forever. They
could cover up a Monica Lewinsky or Chinese missile secrets. You name it. If whistleblowers
went public because there wasn't a drudgereport.com to put it up like back with Monica Lewinsky.
So there's our article right there from months ago, McMaster. We put it back on screen. Was
that the meeting McMaster trashed Trump and private dinner MSM break story info wars broke
months ago. There's Dan Lyman's article from November 21st. You can scroll down into the
article and actually click the original info wars broke the story report McMaster labeled
Trump scary and a dope. And it's our story from September 11th, September, October, late
November, it breaks two and a half months later, word for word. Now, the reason I point
that out is that's why they fear us. That's why they hate us. I mean, that's why they've
told me you stop it or we're going to destroy you and they've already had some fun with
it. As everybody's witness and I'm not complaining. I just want people to know I'm like at the
Alamo here. I mean, this is a big shootout and we know we're going to win the war, but
we're the outpost that's under attack because we're leading the defense here. We're leading
the charge and we just need your prayers because I'm not going to get into all the things that
go on behind the scenes and things, but it is biblical, biblical. And you know, I don't
usually brag things like that. But I mean, I am proud of myself in the fact that the
pressure that's been brought to bear and things that have been done that I've not wavered
on things that almost anybody else would not. And I leave that to God and God's blessing
for the will. And I pray for more will because I need it. I'm, my will is far from breaking.
It's quite frankly, I need to be comforted where I'm not too angry because I'm not scared
of the globalist, but I'm scared to let them win. We must defeat them. There is wickedness
spreading everywhere like a disease, mental illnesses exploding. People have no morals,
no basis. And they see those of us that aren't sickos like them as the problem. And I just
pray that God bring judgment to these evil people and that God also bring comfort to
good people around the world who just are trying to be decent and honorable. Look at
this article. Again, this is fleshing it out because they know there's tapes in the hill.
And that's what I said a few days ago. I said, well, now that Bill O'Reilly's covered this,
we're going to have to cover it now. And again, I can't live in a lawsuit world. A lot of
times I know the names. A lot of times I've heard the tapes and you've got to know that
if we put it out, they'll just spend it and ignore it a lot of the time. So I, a lot of
times I'll wait, not sitting on a story, but just waiting until more of it builds up where
it's unstoppable and we can put it out. But here's the takeaway. Exclusive, prominent
lawyers sought donor cash for two Trump accusers. That's the hill. Prominent lawyers, key revelations,
Lisa Bloom arranged for a donor to pay off one Trump accusers mortgage. Another accuser
offered 750,000 but declined to come forward. Bloom signed contracts that guaranteed her
33% commission and women's stories were sold to the news media. Bloom contact Clinton super
packs to support the women. Bloom urged one woman to delete her pro-Trump social post
to make her accusation more believable to reporters. We all know who that is. And ladies
and gentlemen, months ago, it was over a dozen women. A few weeks ago, it was more than 20.
And the people I'm talking to don't just say those numbers. I mean, they have not tapes
or evidence of women that took the money, but women that, oh, you work for Trump or
you knew Trump or you dated Trump. They've gone to women that Trump dated and they won't
say anything bad about him. So they caught him in the New York Times. He was me and he
was horrible. He was, he called me fat and the woman goes out and goes, I never told
the New York Times that he showered me with gifts. He was so nice. It was almost like
a turnoff. He showered me in gifts and praise and attention. It was so nice and he never
did anything mean to me. He once said, we need to both probably work out a little more. We're
both gaining weight. Wow. Okay. What a criminal. Like it's like one of these women up there
that says, oh, once at a reception, he said, can I have your number? And I'm not being
mean, but I mean, she's not Donald Trump's type. I don't want to call her ugly, but she
does. It looks like a space alien. And then the big thing is he asked for your number
and it's like Megan Kelly is like, dun, dun, dun, sexual assault. He asked for the number.
I mean, this is crazy town. There's a big article we've got it linked up on info wars.com
right now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to go over more of the article when we come
back. And then another report stories up on info wars.com with the video. It's in Dutch
so there's subtitles, purely sickening. They get a down syndrome gentlemen on the TV show.
This is a video put out by the Ministry of Health and they guilty and they say you cost
too much money and they kind of tease him and make fun of him and you know, make him
look stupid. I mean, it is the most sickening eugenics based filth with a guy that's probably
doesn't even have a soul talking to the individual that's guaranteed got a soul. So for the little
children, but you'll do the least of me you've done to me. But if you had a time millstone
around your neck and throw in the deepest sea, because there is a God, there is justice
and the evil and the wicked will be brought to justice in this life and the next God will
cut you down. Fully cooked ready to eat bacon. I'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential
bacon, savory and delicious. I buy some I use some I store some awesome. No refrigeration
needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated
ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve life saving ready to eat bacon,
10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fully cooked bacon.com, fully cooked bacon.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead. That's true. But did you know
you can have tax free access to your life insurance while you're still alive? You can
use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk and no penalties. Call life benefits if you'd like a free book
about how this can be done. Call 702-660-7000. That's 702-660-7000.
Hello Mr. Anderson. The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist. Tired of your internet activity
being monitored by Big Brother, get VirtualShield.com. The world's easiest to use virtual private
network. Browse the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust. Get
started today at VirtualShield.com. Take advantage of our free 30 day trial, VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private. Excuse me sir, could you please take a picture of
my family and me with my cell phone? Sure Mrs. Anderson, smile for the camera. Too
bad hackers never get proper permission to access your cell phone or computer camera.
Anyone is or could be susceptible to illegal spying. That's why VirtualShield.com has developed
Identisave, a new security software that blocks camera and microphone access from unwanted
spies. Get started today at VirtualShield.com. Take advantage of our free 30 day trial, VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private. Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help
spread liberty worldwide. I'm also enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100%
organic coffee on the planet. For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from
the high mountains of southern Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade
grown Arabica beans. We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly
customized blend. Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at
InfowarsLife.com. This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without
the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally. Hands down, this
is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas
Mexican farmers. Dropped by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're
going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee. Available at InfowarsLife.com. Support good oral health with our one of a
kind super blue fluoride free products. InfowarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend
with iodine and nano silver designed to deliver a powerful clean. Enjoy a minty fresh flavor
made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor. Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste
with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge your oral health. Our amazing
mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical
times. Instead of containing fluoride our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen
iodine and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits. Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and
only to contain all of these natural ingredients. Xylitol, nano silver and iodine. Notice the
difference with our super blue fluoride free products. Refresh your breath and invigorate
your oral health routine at InfowarsStore.com. That's InfowarsStore.com.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are broadcasting worldwide. I'm your host Alex Jones. I intend
to open the phones up this hour specifically on several big issues here. There's so much
news but we really should just get into the fact that they intend to remove the president
and reverse all the major gains of restoring the sovereignty of our nation. They intend
to remove the president and intend to do it with hundreds is the word of fake accusers
they've got lined up where it's just going to be wall to wall women given hundreds of
thousands of dollars to say that Trump assaulted them or attacked them. Now the first woman
they've gotten to go forward just say, oh, I was at a public dinner and he called me
to see where because I was rude to him at the airport or oh, he asked for my phone number
because they know Trump's going to sue him. They know there's nothing there. And then
they've lined up other star seekers and folks and people that have been on the TV shows
and it's going to come out that they've been paid money. It's crazy. It's absolutely insane
that they're this bold. But again, it's the entitlement of being in power, of hijacking
power for so long. It's like McCabe and the FBI agents and all of them in the meeting,
the highest levels with the Justice Department saying, don't worry, Trump's not going to
get in. But we've got insurance policies in case we need to remove the president if he
gets elected. If Trump is elected to remove him. And so they then go pay for the other
fake dossier and pay millions of dollars to act like it has value to the wife who heads
up that department at Fusion GPS of the head of the Justice Department operation over all
Russia investigations. I mean, that story right there that he paid money to his wife is the
big story that no one is touching on. And I sit here always just elephant in the room,
the big enchilada, the key to it all. And you know, a month from now, maybe it'll get
mentioned. Instead, they're going, well, the FBI agents are allowed to not like somebody
and they're allowed to talk about it and text messages to their mistresses that just so
happened to work for the government as well. And you know, it's no big deal. When that's
not even the issue. Yes, it's regular FBI. You can have a political view in their life.
They're not supposed to project it on the cases, but not when you're carrying out political
operations and going up against the other political candidate and then making fake
dossiers. It's just the motive. It's the fraud. They're the people that are going to end up
being the heads of the FBI. McCabe is a Democrat minion of Mueller and of Comey. He is going
to go up in the Ascension. If the swamp gets drained, they don't get to become directors
and deputy directors and then get the big fat chairmanship of the big fat law firms
that sign off on all the corruption. So they believe they can stop America. They believe
they can stop the re-emergence of our jobs. They believe they can continue to demoralize
us and take control of the civilization because they're FBI agents and they are wearing reptiles
and they went to colleges and they've got accounting degrees and they go to the shooting
range and they're lawyers and they're going to show you America. They're going to manufacture
whatever they want and they're going to shove it down your throat because they work for
the foreign consortiums that have gang-raped this country financially, culturally and most
importantly spiritually. These are the little conspiratorial rat beta males and cocks that
hate anybody that's real and successful that builds something. They're the parasites. They're
the people that go infiltrate government so they can bully everybody else and suck off
everyone like Rosenstein and all these people. They're wimps. It's why they do it. It's why
they seek power. Instead of building a civilization, they want to rob and loot a civilization.
They are a parasite. The criminals, hardcore committed criminals who think they're invincible
and you see the criminal mind all the time and you wonder why they always go too far,
why they always get busted, why they always, because they're just crazy. They can't help
it. It's their modus operandi. They push and they push and they push and they push just
like we just had the December 7th anniversary of Pearl Harbor 70-something years. Unbelievable.
Was it 71 years? And I remember Admiral Yamamoto, the head of the Japanese forces after they
bombed Pearl Harbor, he sent a Morse code message back to the Admiralty and back to
the Emperor and he said, we have executed the operation as ordered, which he'd advised
against, but I fear we have awakened a sleeping giant. And then he started sending back more
teletypes. These people are ready to kill themselves, ready to fly planes into ships
of Navy. They'll follow orders. They send back messages all respectfully. If you have
us invade the mainland, they're all armed. They'll be a rifle behind every blade of grass.
The Japanese imperial government was so arrogant, they wanted to invade California. Back then
it was like Texas. They would have been met on the shore by the citizens and annihilated.
Let me tell you, those 49ers, the great, great grandchildren of 49ers, about as mean and tough
as it gets. California is gone now, just like Texas is falling, falling to weakness, falling
to evil, falling to beta-cuckmills, crawling on her eyeballs. So that's what this is, ladies
and gentlemen, is that they think they can run around in bars and in law firms and on
the streets and go to women in databases of who's worked for Trump and they come to their
doors. Mine about come in, I'm a Democrat, such and such, they got their names right
here and there's a, sure, come on in. Hey, in 30 minutes of the conversation, we'll pay
you $750,000 to say Trump threw you on a desk and tried to rape you. He did do it, didn't
he? They're like, excuse me? But some of them are so whacked out, they're like, well, it's
for the good of the country. You know, oh, it's for the greater good. You know he's
a misogynist and you know all sex is rape. It's just, yeah, let's just, okay. Can I get
my checkbook out right now? But we own the story also when we sold the media, but you're
going to do the interviews, we'll coach you. Listen, it's going to be easy. There's going
to be hundreds of women. You're just going to be one of them. Most women are scared to
do it, so they're like, don't worry, we're going to hit them with so many women, the
lawyers can't come after them all, okay? Because these are what is on the tapes. I've been
told about them. Wait till they come out. Wow, that takes some hutzpah. That takes some
big, old brass, you know what, bravada. What it takes is reckless moron behavior. I mean,
people think I'm reckless what I do on air. I do this to save the country and have a future.
I don't do the things I do on air just because I think I'm invincible. I know I am expendable.
I know I'm just human. I know I'm weak, but I'm not a parasite. I'm not a devil worshiper.
I'm not a child molester. And man, these people are bad news. And I want God to know because
I have spiritual awareness. I can feel God's presence. And when things are happy and good,
feel God's happy. Let me tell you something. When I start looking at these people, I can
just feel God's wrath boiling. I just want to defeat them. And that's why I'm God fearing
and why I don't fear them. And I just am very sad that I'm not strong enough to do a better
job against these people. That's why I need your concerted prayers to lift inforars up
in prayer, everybody else and yourselves and our families together. Every race, color,
and creed, one human race, red blood under Jesus Christ. Great gift that the Father gave
us through His side to defeat the powers of state. Stay with us.
Get your new manate today. Call888-597-0-775.888-597-0-775. Online discounts available at www.powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead. That's true. But did you know
you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still alive? You can
use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties. Call life benefits if you'd like
a free book about how this can be done. Call 702-660-7000. That's 702-660-7000.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and limited free society. Several years ago,
I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most concentrated
over-the-top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe. I know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new
product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product at InfoWarsLife.com
because it works so well. This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're fighting the Info War so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try Alpha
Power exclusively available at InfoWarsLife.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities, and it's made in the U.S.
A. Get your Alpha Power today at InfoWarsLife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
I want to plow into all of this. I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from InfoWarsStore.com, you are funding the revolution. I cannot say
it any clearer. It is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWarsStore.com. I want to
thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste with colloidal
silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it. You cannot beat that for children and
adults. We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones. That's my dad with colloidal
silver and iodine as well. InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139. Your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies. That's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Fuel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWarsLife. Digestive
enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of nutrients
by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components. They also help prevent discomfort
from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut. Digestive
enzyme production declines as we age. Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those
naturally present in the body. Enjoy the full potential of protein-rich foods again. You
can eat protein-heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort commonly
associated with high meat diets. Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase
the bioavailability and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals. Don't let a meal go to waste, use Carnivore by InfoWarsLife.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. You're listening to Alex
Jones.
Here's some of the headlines. Assigns. Deep State still intent on removing Trump from
office. Absolutely, I harp on that because they are still moving forward. Don't think
just because their Russia gate is imploded. Don't think that just because they're getting
caught paying off the women. Don't think they'll stop. They're emboldened by the Roy Moore
situation. Roy Moore is no Donald Trump when it comes to his skill in front of a camera.
But I believe he's been falsely accused and it's been proven in most cases he was. It
was a bunch of arcania coming out of Alabama that the modern world I guess didn't get or
understand. The Muslims have arranged marriages at nine and marry them off at nine. They do
it in Alabama at six at 16. I tell you, it's just insane the whole thing. Meanwhile, the
real criminals are just running rampant worldwide engaged in every type of evil you can imagine
and just industrial wickedness and the Hillary and Obama funded ISIS and Al Qaeda taking
over the Middle East and parts of Africa and just enslaving and killing hundreds of thousands
of men, women and children selling six year old girls into sex slavery. Just abominations
and it's not even a footnote in the news when Hillary makes jokes about the stabilizing
whole region. It's just crazy. But meanwhile, breaking up on infowars.com from the Kansas
City Star, Kansas Dem Andrea Ramsey accused of sexual harassment will drop out of U.S.
House race. Andrea Ramsey, a Democrat candidate for Congress will drop out of the race after
the Kansas City Star asked her about accusations in a 2005 lawsuit that she sexually harassed
and retaliated against a male subordinate who said he had rejected her advances. I have
actually found if you refuse an older woman from her advances and she has any power over
you that they're more vindictive than the cases I've seen with men against women, but
men do it too. And it's all disgusting power play garbage. And it's just, it's just something
that diseases modern culture, but culture period. But you compare that on a scale to
kidnapping, torturing children, selling them in a sex trade, snuff films, harassing a woman
or a man in your office is about a one. It's wrong. Not good. It's terrible. Compared to
torturing killing kids. That's a 10. And see, we should be worrying about the 10s in this
world and the nines and the eights and the sevens. And then if you worried about that
type of evil, you'd notice the retail stuff, the common stuff would start going away, but
we've accepted evil and evil is like a psychic broadcast. So when it gets more and it commits
more, it gets away with it. It winds itself up and it begins psychically diseaseing more
things around it. It's a psychic disease, psychic cancer. So how about somebody's policies
versus more than 10 years ago, settling something with an employee that you supposedly retaliated
against. But it does show that more and more Hollywood women are coming out, shame women
harass them or men. I mean, it goes on both ways, but it doesn't mean that men and women
in general are bad. It's like men are pigs and women are angels and all this, you know,
this idea that like if the men were just not in society, we'd have a great world. Well,
don't worry the genetic engineers and all of them have got that for you. Sexless humanoids
that don't have any diseases. And by the way, don't have souls because that's where this
is all going. They're just getting us obsessed with our friction that we have as men and
women together and this great experience we've had on this planet together for generation
for generation and the highs and the lows and they make that experience a bad thing
when it's just part of the universe, the good, the bad and the ugly. The toll free number
to join us is 877-789-ALOX. I've taken first time callers today specifically on the fact
that it's breaking. Prominent lawyer sought donor cash for two Trump accusers. And that's
just the beginning of these coming out now that I've covered it. Roger Stone's covered
it. The little Riley's covered it. And now it's forcing mainstream media to cover it
and it's beginning to roll out. How is that going to hit them? Just like the Russia investigation,
when it turns out it's a fake dossier, 13 million paid for it. Spouses of Justice Department
officials got money from the government to put out the line. They're all in these meetings
saying it's meant to derail candidate Trump or derail him after he gets elected president.
I mean, you have them. How are they going to respond to this? What are they going to
do when they're running around offering money to people to sit there and tell us? But see,
media doesn't care. They don't care if they lose the Hulk Hogan lawsuit. They don't care
because they don't care if they lose all these lawsuits they're in over this. For Russia
Gate, you name it, because there's just globalist money behind it. Literally not even using
it as fake news now, but weaponized news that they're, no, we're going to lose the lawsuit.
But you will remember that in two years. The globalists just want power back. But the useful
idiots down at the low level, the ones that engage in all this, they're the ones that
get burned. It's truly crazy that this is going on. So the toll free number to join us
is 877-789 Alex. Other news, Assange, Deep State, still intent on removing Trump from
office. Paul Joseph Watson, news wars.com. And look at this little gym out of Air Force
Times. U.S. F-22s intercept Russian fighter jets, fire warning flares to U.S. F-22 Raptors
intercepted and fired warning flares at two Russian SU-25s over the tightly congested
airspace in Syria and the Euphrates River on Wednesday. We're now learning today the
Russian fighters had crossed an agreed upon demarcation line that runs parallel with the
Euphrates River, the U.S. and the Syrian partner forces known as the Syrian Democratic
Forces. That's the al-Qaeda forces, I guess we haven't fully cleaned out. There are people
that are al-Qaeda that change their uniforms, operate on the eastern side of the Euphrates
and it's a region, Russia and Syria regime allies are supposed to steer clear from.
So it's the Russians that went in there and did most of the fighting to kick out ISIS
and the al-Qaeda forces. And now some of them have run back over into Iraq. Iraq's trying
to defeat them, but you've still got policies from the neocons, even though Trump's ordered
them not to. They think he doesn't understand what's going on, to just leave those forces
alone, Russians. And by the way, those forces are on the ground shooting at them. That's
the part you got to read deeper into the news to find it. They run across the line and shoot
at the Syrian forces and they run back across the line. But you're not supposed to understand
military tactics or the type of garbage they're involved in.
Okay, before we end this segment, I just want to tell the listeners that if you do your
Christmas shopping at Infowarkstore.com, you get great products, you don't have to fight
the crowds or the traffic and all the garbage and you help yourself, your family and Infowars
continue on. And funding is what we need to expand. I need to expand the funds we brought
in compared to last Christmas, not keep the same or bring in less like we're doing right
now, bring in a little bit less than we did last Christmas. So a lot of amazing new products
at Infowarsstore.com, really incredible. You've got to try, you've got to try these products
like Brainforce or DNAforce or the other products for yourself. You've got to actually experience
them. And running right now at Infowarsstore.com, we have free shipping, store-wide, and you
can order up until the 18th to be guaranteed delivery before Christmas anywhere in the
United States. So be sure and find out about Alpha Power, which is just the next level
in stamina, brain enhancement. I mean, you name it, we can actually make claims on this
because it's so powerful. Go read about Alpha Power. I mean, if you like some of the other
products we've got, this might be too strong for you, quite frankly. It is rocket fuel
but all-natural and healthy. Alpha Power, 50% off out of the gates, Infowarslife.com,
Infowarsstore.com. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it. It's the first annual
Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza brought to you by Infowars and it's launching Christmas
week, leading into Christmas. You know, Christmas is about Christmas. And to celebrate this,
we've got the biggest sales in the history of Infowars and Infowarsstore.com. 50% to
67% off all our best-selling items and free shipping. A lot of these items, high-quality
supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel, water filtration, you name it, is lost leader
prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ and celebrate Western
culture and celebrate the re-assurgence of freedom. So find out about the mega sales
and special broadcasts going on this week only at Infowars.com. Again, it is the Christmas
Spectacular Extravaganza.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid. So what do we do about it? Well,
for starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all-new, supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation and new tropics. And now we've added a brand new ingredient
called Black Pepper Fruit Extract that gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include
vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch
and supercharge your state of mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus, secure your
bottle right now at InfowarsStore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfowarsLife. Our organic formula is made
from high-quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L-Tryptophan, lemon
balm leaf extract, and melatonin. Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through
the night and achieve proper sleep. Millions of people around the world experience daytime
drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace. Our
natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and
get the sleep you need. Wake up refreshed and take on the day. InfowarsLife wants to
bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an
affordable price. Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout. Head
on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's InfowarsLife.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with Super Male Vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality. Our ultimate
non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around
the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super Male Vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. InfowarsLife
wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males. Support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize
your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of Super Male Vitality today at InfowarsLife.com.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin, Texas. Broadcasting worldwide. It's Alex Jones.
You know, we're going to write to your phone calls here in a moment when Roger Stone is
joining us with the Inside Baseball on the number of reported tapes there are that women
have recorded of Democrat operatives and media operatives. The same thing. Globalist operatives,
they just use the Democratic Party and the media as their shell grips, their fronts really.
How many women have taped the Democrats offering of money? And the media just thinks that when
all this starts coming out as it is, they're just going to not cover it and still have
the fake women paid off on TV saying he raped them, he slapped them, he called them whores.
I mean, this is all the stuff. Like some OCD in a good way, Patriot Control Freak is going
to run around raping women and then he's 71 years old before we find out about it. Yeah,
that's going to happen. And long before I hooked up the Trump wagon, I talked to folks
that know him and know him well. Again, none of it is true. Zero. Zero. It's absolute BS.
What do you have like 15 seasons of apprentice and they get one recording behind the scenes,
you know, scumbags record everything, they can edit it together and things. That's what
Trump said. It's edited. He says, yeah, it's crazy. They jump on you and do whatever you
want. It's crazy. Good Lord. He just sounds like an old fuddy duddy there, but a good
one. The ladies is all over it. It's crazy. I mean, because you know, that's old fascism.
I can't believe celebrities, women throw themselves at you like this. Back when I was just a billionaire,
it wasn't like this. Yeah, it's like Elvis with women throwing their panties at him.
He didn't rape those women. And that's what he's like. Yeah, they throw themselves on
you. It's crazy. And that turns into he's this big criminal and they're the ones recording
him. Oh, it was accidental. Somebody picked it up outside bull. And you can hear the tape
how it's like a few words and cut, cut, cut. You ever seen the refrigerator games and we
have the words and it's called hundreds of words. You can like put them together every
one. It's the same deal. You could take the Bible and edit it to say Jesus loves Satan,
kill your children, but it's not true. They've taken the words, cut them out, put them in
different formations. But with the Democrats, you've got them on pedophile airplanes. You've
got them being pedophiles. You've got them defending pedophiles in court. You've got
a train wreck of raping women, men. You name it. And the leftist media defends this. I've
noticed with daily articles where I'll talk about how Hollywood men are raping men and
that men are raping women. And they'll say Jones did his anti homophobe or his homophobe
thing saying that gay men are raping men. If I talk about a man assaulting men, they
didn't say I'm being anti gay. Or if I talk about what's on discovery channel, history
channel, all these shows where there's this big thing now of having sex with automobiles
or appliances. And then they go, Jones gave an anti gay rant about gay men having sex
with cars. The very rant I said, there are men that abuse men, women that abuse women,
women that abuse men, men that abuse women. There are all sorts of things where people
then want to have sex with automobiles or they're into bondage. There's all these fetishes
and they're creating all these long acronyms, LBQTX5903QX43, Cuba, Liberals, Schnaublert,
I mean, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
they're teaching kids this and they go, Jones is anti gay, it's on screen right now. He
says, gays want to have sex with your car. And again, the whole rant is about, if there
are going to end up being a million sexual preferences and I'm supposed to know the acronym
for them, LTQZL329485ZQ1ABCDEFGX, XYZZZZ, I mean, the rant is about how crazy this
is. That's now anti gay, you see. I'm like, they got TV shows about the guy in England
who's got a bunch of Volkswagen. He has sex with them every night. His wife's a Volkswagen
and then one woman wants to be blind so she pours drain on her eyes and taxpayers got
to pay for it. And then meanwhile, I've got a video coming up after we take your calls
and Roger Stone leaves. It's on infowars.com. I'm going to tweet it out on real old Jones.
Yes, we do that for me. Thanks. This is out of the daily wire. Nazi whispers. Dutch government
official tells man with Down syndrome how expensive he is. And of course, we're trying
to pass laws where you can't have a Down syndrome baby in Europe and no one's had one now in
years in Iceland. And the whole point is now with genetic editing, it'll be any disorder
they claim. Like being aggressive is going to be a disorder. I mean, that's already in
the psychological profiles. Opposition defiance disorder. You know, you think government needs
to be kept on a short leash while you're insane. We've got a name for that. So, oh, you're
going to pay for somebody to put Drano in their eyes or someone to chop their genitals
off. Chop your genitals off. I'm not paying for it. Oh, that's homophobic. You don't
like people having sex with their cars. I just said they're doing it. I don't need to
know the acronym. I'm not hateful. If I don't respond to people that live as dogs, they live
as children, they're dumping Drano in their eyes. I was reading there have been hundreds
of surgeries in Europe where they remove people's corneas or they just dump bleach
in your eye and then you go on welfare as a blind person. No, you're crazy. Put them
in a loony bin until they don't want to put Drano in their eyes. But instead they got
psychiatrists and psychologists at the scene, applying it to their eyeballs. And the neighbor
is going, oh, it's so great. Oh, it's so wonderful. So they don't even want to debate about how
they're trying to scramble society because their own documents admit they're doing this
and making it normal to screw people up and create mental illness. Let me tell you want
to take your eyeballs out. You're crazy. You want to have sex with a car? You're crazy.
Knock yourself out. But I don't have to know the acronym for it. I know the acronym, mental
patient. I know the acronym. Somebody wants to have sex with a rubber robot. Somebody
that doesn't want to communicate with humans who was on a smartphone too much growing up.
That's what you are. You're like an animal brought up in a cage with no windows and you
don't even know what it is to be your species. That's what it is. The end of our species.
I mean, this is how space aliens would slowly strangle us and take us out. This is how
space aliens, if they were real, if they were here, you know, fallen angels, you know, this
is how they do it. And it's funny. There's a book warning us that it was coming and they
would run this exact operation. Boy, thanks. Thanks science fiction writers. Because if
you don't believe in God, that's all it is. Okay, well, it's science fiction that they're
using as a blueprint. So you still, it doesn't matter. It's manifesting. It's happening. We
better get informed. Okay, I'm gonna take your calls coming up. We're gonna start the
next hour and I'm gonna go to Mark and Keen and Marcos and others, Brandon and John, everybody
else we're gonna go to. Seriously, though, if you spread the articles and videos, isn't
it just something I say? This is a war. When you spread the articles, the videos, the reports,
they're going to try to ridicule you online and try to punish you because they want to
shut down the transmission that's most dangerous to them. They have congressional hearings,
you name it, and are specifically wanting us off the air. Because let me tell you, I
got their program. So infowarstore.com, we need funding. We have incredible products.
X2, we'll learn about iodine deficiencies. Learn about how the other iodines aren't
good for you. You've got to get the deep, clear, true, real iodine. Learn about IQ reduction.
We don't have proper iodine. Learn about cell force, our newest product from mitochondrial
DNA, detoxing, nerve regrowth, even stronger formula in some of the areas than what we
put out before. But again, different formulas are different for other folks. People go,
well, I'll take SuperMail, or do I take Anthroplex, or do I take something like the different
products like AlphaPower? Well, AlphaPower is the strongest stamina, libido, energy,
brain, cholesterol, heart. I mean, it's on all cylinders. It is the strongest. But some
people might not like the compounds that are in it. Infowarstore.com. Infowarslife.com.
You need to read about these yourself. You need to find out about these for yourself.
You need to learn about the different things that are in each one of the different formulas.
Because each one is different. And it will work different for different people. So you
need to try brain force. You need to try the real red pill. You need to try cell force.
You need to try AlphaPower. Because with AlphaPower, I wanted the Ferrari of ingredients at a Ford
Mustang price. And that's what we've done. It's 50% off out of the gates. Glass bottle,
super high quality. And just let me tell you, if there's any product we've got where you
get results in 30 minutes, it's like brain force or AlphaPower. Things like the real
red pill. That takes about 4, 5, 6 days to kick in. So that's all the stuff, you know,
the precursors and key things you need for all this other stuff to work. But just try
it all for yourself. Take advantage of these big discounts, introductory discounts to see
how great it is. Infowarstore.com. 50% off on many of these products. 67% off on the
Colorado Silver and free shipping store wide. Do your Christmas shopping right now. Buy
a t-shirt. Buy a book. Get the fake news breakdown by Mark Dyson. Get that at infowarstore.com.
Get your shopping done. Support the Infowar. It's a 1-1-360. We'll be back with your calls.
Roger Stone is so much more in the second hour. Please spread the links for the show,
infowars.com. I'm very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality InfoWars
biome defense probiotic. We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality
known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification
in the body. Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures
from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal
function. Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be
the leading probiotic on the market. Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular
strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the
public, so please take advantage of it today. Support your own health and support the InfoWars.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the InfoWars to fight the globalist and live in a free society. Several years
ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina, libido, workout brain formula that is safe. I know from using this
myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family use it that this new
product is going to end up being the number one best selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well. This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured
you're fighting the InfoWars so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation. Try Alpha
Power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO,
it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities and it's made in the USA. Get
your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com. Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance. It's Alex Jones.
Yep, I'm the mad man on the kamikaze mission to take down the globalists and we've given
them some good licks thanks to your prayers, your support. You are the army, you are the
air force, you are the navy, you are the marines, you are the black brigade, you are the pastors,
you are the resistance. We're going to knock them dead. They haven't figured it out yet,
they're now identified. All their operations are getting blown and they can even take
me out, trump out anybody. It's not going to stop now. That's what a war is, folks.
I knew it, getting into it. But let me tell you, it's been interesting to experience it.
Quite frankly, I wouldn't do it any other way. I had to start it all over again. We're
going to cut down the enemy. That's what matters.
All right, I'm going to go through your phone calls. Roger's popping in briefly with the
huge revelations that I'm going to get to more in the next segment about. Confirm, like
we told you, these women are being paid off and they're being paid. Some women are, here's
the next picture to drop, are taping people telling them, you know, say this and I'll
pay you. They're going to spend it. Well, sure, pay women to come forward, sell their
story. They're leading them. They're and women are recording them that haven't had any problems
with Trump. That's the issue. I know you know that, but the media is going to, again, keep
changing the subject, but we're aware of their game now. We're alive. We're conscious. We're
watching. We know everything about the globalist. This broadcast makes its business studying
these people and criminals brag in their own publications to themselves. You see them
bragging about stealing elections, bragging how their pedophiles, we have them. We just
had to listen to what they say in their own little annals, not in their big broadcast
lies where they are. Families are bad. God doesn't exist. GMOs good for you. Take your
vaccines. But back here, they all, you're so stupid. We're going to trouble your prizes
and screw you over. You know, Gruber, all of it. Okay. Keynes, Marcos, let's go to Marcos
and Fort Worth first. You're on the air. Thanks for holding.
How's it going, Alex? Good, brother. We are breaking the conditioning. We know we're
under attack. Your phone's breaking up a little bit. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes,
I can. Go ahead. So I want to say how coincidental is it that every single, you know, allegation
that we have against every single prominent figure happens to be, you know, a sexual assault
case? And because like how it has the same MO and how, how they use the Harvey Weinstein
thing at first, which was real. And then almost everything after that that followed other
than the exception, you know, that's right. I predicted it. That was the detonator. Weinstein
was the detonator. It was. And he's even bragged since, oh, look, I changed the world. I was
patient zero. He's walking around now. Like, is he not, is he not just walking around?
He is. And that's a good point, Marcos. But what are they going to do as it comes out
that they're manufacturing most of this? They're going to, they're going to quintipple
down or, you know what I mean? They're going to, they're going to go, I mean, hopefully
they stand down like you say, like you always say, you know, you don't, you don't want it
to go to that level. But I mean, if they take it to, if they take it to another level past
this, I mean, Trump's going to just have to be like, look, I can no more games. I can
see all, I can see all of it. Like he's only playing nice because he can't just go in there
and just, this is done. I'm shutting it down. We're not doing this anymore. Stop wasting
taxpayer dollars. He literally has to like, he literally has to tip toe around because
it's not even necessarily what's about, what's legal. It's about the optics of it and how
stupid, how quite frankly, how stupid the masses are right now because they'll just
believe.
Well, that's it. I mean, those of us that are informed, see the Russian investigation
totally phony, most of this stuff, the sex stuff made up or exaggerated. We're like,
this is stupid. This is so fake, but they're just kind of targeting people magazine readers
and kind of airheads who walk into me on the street and literally go, you are a Russian
Asian. They're like staring at Captain America, basically. I mean, when it comes down to it,
when it comes down to promoting America, I'm just like, oh yeah, we're really, we're the
Russians. Yeah, right. God bless you. Great points, Marcus. Stay with us. More calls straight
ahead in Rochester.
Top scientists and researchers agree. We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid. So what do we do about it? Well,
for starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation
of advanced neural activation and new tropics. And now we've added a brand new ingredient
called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick. Other ingredients include
vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the
switch and supercharge your state of mind. It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure
your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God. It's Alex Jones.
You can run on for a long time. Run on for a long time. Run on for a long time. Sooner
or later, gotta cut you down. Sooner or later, gotta cut you down.
We are back live, ladies and gentlemen, and we're broadcasting worldwide. You know, we
have an amazing digital phone system that can take 50 calls at a time. One time we got
24,000 calls during a show, so you can digitally see how many hit it. But computers crash.
So we had like 20 people on the line. So I'm going to be taking your calls this hour and
next. And so it just, it dumped you all. We had to reboot it. It froze up. So call back
in 877789 Alex, but only if you were already online. Please folks, let folks get in that
we're already there. We'll get you back on and get to you. Sorry about that. It happens
like once a year, it just happened. So the phone system got cut down. Sooner or later,
gonna cut the phone system down. 877789 Alex. Think about being in an airplane where the
pilots hardly know how to fly as it's starting to happen because everything's so automated
on cruise control. I mean, that's a fact. Self-driving cars, self-flying airplanes.
And now when those systems go out, they have much higher rates of crashes landing and taking
off. There's big studies showing it where, yeah, you use a calculator all the time.
You forget how to do math. You watch porn all the time. You forget how to actually go
out and date a real woman. I mean, all of this is handicapping us. All of this is dehumanizing
us. And I'm not saying, hey, it'd be great in the car to have self-driving and click
it on and it can, you know, drive. You take care of business calls or whatever, but then
you don't know how to drive a car anymore. And then they go, oh, computers are better
than you. Humans can't drive cars. And now you're in the cage of, in the name of the
nanny state, Isaac Asimov's iRobot meets demolition man. That's really their plan. And then I've
seen the self-driving buses in Germany and the new ones they've got in Dubai and they
go like 10 miles an hour. It's, it's, and you're given the globalists that are in control
of the robots. They're getting all the control. And I know everybody knows this, but the technocrats
call themselves technocrats. They call themselves authoritarian and they say it's okay because
our computers are going to manage it. What healthcare you get, your carbon credits, what
you get allotted, where you can go, what you can do. And that's coming up after I take
your calls. And after we talk to Roger Stone, it's coming up later in the hour. I've got
to spend a couple of segments on this though. So maybe next hour it's up on info wars.com.
Nazi whispers, Dutch government official tells man with Down syndrome how expensive he is.
And I got so angry this morning watching this because they're talking to this nice fellow
with Down syndrome and he's very, you know, a genteel and friendly and nice and, and you
tell he probably would have had like a 200 IQ if he didn't have the extra chromosomes.
He's very smart for, you know, cognitively for a fellow that has Down syndrome. But
what they lack in that they have in strength and spirit and, you know, being funny and
a lot of other things. There's anybody that's been around these, these great people knows
and they just are very condescending to him, very condescending and see Western Europeans
and Northern Europeans because the Ice Age are very communal and, and are, and are very
into the bigger group and order and, but then a Hitler comes along and they follow orders,
things don't go too well, get nice people in charge, things go very well. But, but you
know, you get into the Northern Europe in areas, I mean, you get companies where they're
like 90% socialists, basically like 90% of your money goes to government. They can really
use that to abuse people, look at the Stockholm syndrome, look at all this. And they just
condescended him about, Hey, you cost a lot of money, bro. Well, so does having people.
So does life. You have kids, they might die. They're going to go into all the genomes by
law and edit out any problems saying we have global health care, you can't cost other people
stuff. And then that's the gene editing that's already here. And they admit it. It was like
I told you 20 years ago when they bring in self driving cars, when they bring those in,
which they're already doing, they're going to say, you're not safe anymore. You got to
pay more insurance as a human driver. They're going to use it to track and control you.
And then they're going to push you off the roads entirely. They're going to say, we
don't need humans anymore. Everything's done by robots and computers. And the computers
say this certain group of people are worthless. And they've been made worthless and domesticated
by the technocracy, by the program to keep people not outside playing or playing sports,
be inside watching TV. The technocracy admits it's a plan to insert you into a matrix. This
is the mop up crew to get rid of humanity run by globalists that think they're a new
species and are going to merge with machines as aliens and get rid of this. And the news
is going to say, I say aliens are doing this. No, genetic engineering, human animal hybrids,
human machine hybrids are alien to the planet. The globalists believe they're going to create
a new species and exterminate us because they're satanic. They're powered by an off world force
that is on this planet now programming us to kill each other. That's what it is. The
Bible's right. Everything we get technologically is meant to enslave us now. Not the technologies
bad. Everything they're deploying is evil. Everything they're putting out is dehumanizing.
Every metric shows it. The cancer rates, the brainwaves are lowering. We are dying in an
unnatural environment we've been put into. Just like you're on a Mars mission, they
say the Terrans when they get to Mars won't be able to walk for a few weeks until they
start trying to exercise because there's not enough gravity on the spaceship. The cell
phones are eating your brain. They are giving you cancer. We're going to go to break, come
back to Roger Stone, get into the other big subjects. But do you understand that I know
all this because the globalists wrote about it in books and publications 30, 40, 50 years
ago and I made films about it and now it's all over the news they're saying this. So
Roger Stone is going to join us on the big breaking news on the other side of the break.
Exclusive prominent lawyers sought donor cash for Trump accusers. And I know a lot of you
go, yeah, Alex, we already heard Roger six months ago. We heard you months ago and we
heard Bill O'Reilly on, you know, Tuesday. We know this. No, we forced mainstream media
report and now the dam's going to break. Now the dam's going to break of the women that
taped being offered money and then the women are going to come forward and say he didn't.
He was a total gentleman. He was totally nice to me all the years I worked for him at the
times I saw him. He did tell me I was gorgeous. He bought me Christmas presents. He found
out that my mother broke her hip and had some big bills and he gave me a $20,000 bonus.
Oh my God, this guy's an angel. But see, it's just incredible. So we're going to come back
on the other side of the Roger Stone. Here's the deal. If you want me to fight the globalist
and I'm not putting pressure on you, I'm saying you want us to take the globalist on.
I will hire more correspondents, more reporters just like I've been doing. Roger Stone, all
those new crew we're getting, all the new shows, we'll go 20, 24 hours a day. We will
expand the face of the globalist. We will never stop. But we need you to spread the
articles, the videos, because they admit they're censoring us and trying to block. We need
you to buy the products. We need you to say, hey, I'm not going to fight the crowds. I'm
not going to deal with all the traffic. I'm not going to get black circles around my eyes.
I'm just, I'm not going to have to wrap stuff because you can pay for it online at m4store.com
and tell us where you want it to go and even put in a comment on the receipt, to who it's
going to. Hey, this is from Uncle Al or this is from your mom or whatever. If you want
to get it to your house and give it locally, that's fine too. But if people will just go
get a t-shirt or go get a Mark Dice book exposing how the whole fake news works. It's a really
good new book he's got. I think somebody took it out of here. You tell them a book's going
to be hot. Everybody's wanting to ask him for copies around the office. I'm like, sure,
here's your Christmas present. By the way, I'm signing all the first 500, but I want
to sell tens of thousands of these. So that's going to go quick. The true story of fake
news m4warstore.com. Get them today. All I'm asking is please just commit and realize
our supplements are the very best. They're incredible. We've got new ones out. We've
got new probiotics out. We've got so many great new products available. m4warstore.com
or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine. Now, cell force is a similar
formula to DNA force. That's from another major national distributor and I'm able to
get it for less money. That's what it is. I still came up with DNA force with the scientists
and researchers. It still has some other properties. Cell force doesn't. It's apples
and oranges, but it's in the same quadrant. A lot of the same studies. It is still a very,
very expensive. A lot of money goes in each bottle. So, you know, other medical systems
and things will sell things similar to this for $200, $300. It's normally 70 something
bucks. It's even less than that right now. 50% off m4warstore.com cell force and it helps
fund the operation. But then we have stuff like colloidal silver. That's the highest
quality. 67% off for like 995 silver bullet to your Christmas shopping and m4warstore.com
and it's a win, win, win. It helps fund the operation. Please continue to support us.
I really want to thank you all for making this possible.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality. We're breaking
the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality. Our
ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from
around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency. Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals. InfoWarsLife
wants to bring you the highest quality products. Our unique combination of ingredients is designed
to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males. Support
your body and mind and take yourself to the next level. Boost your vitality and energize
your life. Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com. Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield X2
and Biotru Selenium. This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed. Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of
99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals. This essential mineral is necessary in order
to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and
overall brain fog. Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the
systems in your body. Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover
the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfoWarsLife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
I'm Alex Jones, your host InfoWars.com and NewsWars.com are amongst some of the most
hated news sites by the globalists in the world because they know we'll force stories
out that they are desperate to try to keep suppressed. And as I always say, you get
tomorrow's news today, you get next week's news today, you get next year's news today,
next decade, next century, next millennium, next eon, next eternity, right here at InfoWars.
And Roger Stone joins us for just one segment. He's a busy bee. I'm going to come back, go
to Brandon, John, Mark, Jim, Lewis, Tristan and others on the other side of this segment.
Roger Stone talked about it months ago. He said there are recordings, women are recording,
people offering the money, but smartly folks are holding back with those till they do their
main push. Well, now we've got it in the hill after O'Reilly alluded to it, forcing it out.
Exclusive prominent lawyer sought donor cash for two Trump accusers. Roger Stone, former
head of the Trump 2016 campaign. Thank you for joining us.
Alex, I really feel like the forces of freedom are on the move and we've got the globalists
to come on the run. Yes. Well, is the allegations against Donald Trump, which I have declared
to be phony from the very beginning are really starting to crumble. Extraordinary breaking
news by John Solomon. You remember him? He's the guy who with Sarah Carter broke the story
about the FISA court declaring that 30,000 Americans had been spied on an act of political
espionage by the Obama administration. Now breaks the news that Lisa Bloom, the California
attorney who is the daughter of Gloria Allred, was involved in raising money to pay women
to raise these allegations against Trump. Also trying to shake down media organizations
for a commission, trying to sell their fake news stories. And in one case, offered one
woman as much as $750,000 to come forward and bear false witness against the president.
I watched that press conference. I rolled it back and watched it three times when they
brought out so called victims. These women are coached. They are forced. The whole thing
stinks to hide. Oh, it's ridiculous. And they say, oh, he asked for my phone number. They're
like, Oh my God, that's making Kelly just that shocked. And meanwhile, let's be honest,
we know Trump well, even in 44 years. I mean, this is not Donald Trump's type. I mean, I'm
sorry, the woman, the woman looks like a praying maness. Yeah, none of these women were his
type. When he was single, he dated supermodels and virtually only supermodels. What about
your wife? I'll tell you, she's a Latina supermodel. I've met her. Good Lord. Well, I have high
standards myself. But I've looked at Melania, Trump culture, refined, gracious, beautiful,
kind, just a wonderful, wonderful person provides great balance, I think, for the president's
life. Incredible poise, incredible presence. She speaks four languages. She's a highly
cultured person, but she's very decent. She's very approachable, very likable. That's the
Trump type. Not what's crazy about her is she has all that all that incredible luster
and power, but there's almost something provincial and farmer like about her, something very
traditional. She's a very, she's a very good person. She's a very kind hearted person.
And she doesn't love politics. She told me that. I don't know all over the world, but
she understands what he has to do for the country. And I really believe she was a definitive
factor in his, her, him deciding to give up the greatest lifestyle in the world to go
to the service of his country. And notice she's unscripted up there doing, she's up
there doing the Lord's prayer, just, it's awesome. Well, look, he didn't need to run
for president to be somebody. This wasn't about him. It was about the country. He's
giving up a lot to, to, to take this. And you've said that Trump is very fatalistic
and not the bad way. He's just committed. He's doing it. That's the end of it and whatever
happens, happens. Well, I always point to that interview he gave with Oprah Winfrey 15,
20 years ago when she said, Donald, what about running for public office? Would you ever
run for president? He said, no, I don't think so unless things get so bad that I have no
choice. That's where we are today. And you've taken the beatings. I've taken the beatings.
It's unsafe to go out and public and say you're a Trump support, even though I think we have
a silent majority. It's so politically incorrect to stand up for our president and people are
so, you know, mal-mowed by the mainstream media and the abuse you take, but he's, he's
unbowed and he's unbroken. He is unbought and unbossed.
So what happens next? Because the word is from you and many others is there's a bunch
of tapes, a bunch of women who, who didn't go in the payoffs who are ready to release
them. You think it's smart to hold off until they launch their main barrage?
I think you have to hold some of the ammunition back. I am chasing a very active story that
one of the women who's an accuser, who was on the apprentice in claims of sex and assaulted
her, lied repeatedly in her applications to even get on the show. Well, if you lie about
one thing, you'll lie about everything. And we're going to have more about that in Boston
next week.
They're going to be in the studio next week. What about, since you mentioned that, Trey
Gowdy saying, I think that the new FBI director is going to be gone by next week. Total privilege
collusion. It's all fake. It's all imploding. Mainstream media just keeps acting like it's
not happening. But it, I mean, where is the Russia investigation? I mean, if it's not
already sunk, isn't it about to go under?
Well, you would, you would certainly think so. They've come up empty handed, but then
you watch, you know, here, no evil, see no evil, no, no evil, Rod Rosenstein's tap dance
before the House Intelligence Committee yesterday. And you got to shake your head when asked
directly, do you, do you see the bias of Robert Mueller? He says, no, I just don't say it.
This guy's got all the visual acuity of Stevie Wonder.
Man, I've watched the hearings and the, I mean, just everybody involved hates Trump.
Democrats, they make a fake dossier. They lie to get a warrant. They lie about doing
that. They get caught and, and, and, and here's the big one, Roger. What about the head of
the Russia operation in the Justice Department being the one that recommends the millions
of dollars to go to the Fusion GPS when his wife was running that program? I mean, isn't
that another issue, the money going from a husband to a wife?
Well, absolutely. Follow the money as we learned in Watergate. Now, this thing is, is just,
the fish is rotten from the head down. And then Alex yesterday, stunning me, as you know,
I'm being sued along with Donald Trump in the District of Columbia by this phony Obama
blessed group project for democracy. Let's be clear. They're literally Obama's lawyers
and he admits he runs it. We'll have to hold you over to a few minutes on that, but let's
start getting into this insanity. They're suing you for Russian collusion with no proof.
But it's even worse than that. Yesterday, John Brennan, Mike Hayden and Jim Clapper,
three former NSA officials and the CIA director under Barack Obama, three members of the shaved
head brigade filed an amicus brief in the court claiming that, oh, yes, the Russians
hacked the DNC and Stone gave the information, WikiLeaks, bogus, completely.
And by the way, think about how criminal that is. They say, oh, we can't tell you because
it's classified, but they testify through a brief unheard of. Even law journals said
this has never been done before with literal made up, uh, pulp fiction that they inject
in to show a jury in a trial suing you for being a Russian agent with no proof. And
then the very agency heads that illegally spotted America just say because of our gravitas,
we say Roger Stone did this. I stay right there. I got to do a few more minutes with
you. This is insane. And then they have hearings saying I'm a Russian agent. Hey, they'll probably
sue me and have a file and Brennan will say, I say so it's true. You dirty scum, man.
It looks good under your Christmas tree and tastes even better. Big Berkey water filters.
Yes, the gift of clean water, a gift that provides a great foundation for achieving good health
in the lives of your loved ones. A big Berkey water filter gives them protection from bacteria,
heavy metals, chlorine, fluoride, pesticides and herbicides, VOCs and more. And best of
all, a big Berkey water filter is a gift that lasts for many years with no additional investment.
And that saves time and money in filter replacements that other water filters require and are even
powerful enough to purify treated, untreated or even stagnant pond water. As always, all
orders over $50 are shipped free and GCN listeners get 5% off all ceramic filter systems. Order
online at bigberkeywaterfilters.com. Spelled big, B-E-R-K-E-Y, waterfilters.com. Or call
877-99 Berkey. That's 877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y. Gift well this Christmas. Give a big Berkey
water filter.
Supermell Vitality and so many others. With its unique delivery system and proprietary
manufacturing process designed for maximized effects. This formula is the platinum standard
of multi-vitamin mineral products and this part is most important. The ingredients in
vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard. That
means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest-secured, you're finding the tip of the
spear in the info war. That's infowarslives.com and vitamin mineral fusion. Take action now
before we sell out. Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things
that will save you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info
war, a 360 win. Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10%
off on your order at infowarshore.com. Number two, you're also able to get items that are
out of stock when you sign up for auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship
customers. Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50. Listers
have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the products
that you need each month. Just go to infowarshore.com, select your favorite product or products, click
on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order. As you know,
I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslives.com, this
is a sure win. 10% off on auto ship. Win, win, win at infowarslives.com. Free shipping
on orders above $50 and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels. Up,
up, up, up, optimum levels. With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended
amount of B vitamins we need every day. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up,
up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up,
up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up,
up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up up, up,
up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, top,
Also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin D12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
All right, Roger's got to go into a very important meeting, so let me with us a few more minutes
and I promise I'm going to write your calls.
But just think about the magnitude that I'm calmly here talking about how
they have congressional hearings with no proof.
They just say I'm a Russian agent.
And they've got immunity in Congress to say that.
They don't say it, you notice on TV.
But they say Tucker Carlson is on television, they say Rand Paul is.
Roger Stone.
And then you have Clapper, the same guy that famously told Congress a couple years ago,
there's no spying period in the U.S. by any agency.
Clapper to deny NSA surveillance before Senate panel in March testimony.
Now he says he forgot about the spying.
You guys had that article during the break, I pulled it up.
Do we put that one up?
Because he says, I forgot.
Spidesy forgotten about NSA program.
They also said they weren't spying on candidate Trump or President-elect Trump.
Now turns out they were.
I mean, these are the people in an amicus brief in a lawsuit against the president
and Roger Stone saying they're Russian agents with no proof.
And they say we can't testify, we won't come, but just use our office to know they're Russian agents.
Well, you're agents of lies and fraud and sacks of garbage.
I mean, this overturns, even liberal publications said nothing like this has ever happened, Roger.
So I know you got to go, but just recap how insane this is.
Yeah, Alex, it's extraordinary. See, I don't get to question them.
I don't get to cost examine them.
They just intercede in this lawsuit.
You have the John Brennan, the Islamic convert to radical Islam, who is the former CIA director.
You have James Clapper, a guy who lied under oath said, oh, no, we have no Meta data collection program.
That doesn't exist.
What they indict Mike Flynn for lying over something innocuous, over something legal, yet there's no indictment of Clapper.
And then you have Mike Hayden, the Bush era, NSA director.
These guys interject themselves into this lawsuit against Donald Trump and myself.
The idea here, I think, is to just run up our legal bills and silence us.
Well, as long as I'm on info wars, I will never be silenced by these clowns.
And they've banned you off.
They've banned you off Twitter because all you do is keep wrecking huge news because you're a fact.
I mean, this is insane.
Well, and you know, it appears to me that I just was like a test case.
I think come December 18th, all conservative voices would be banned off Twitter.
I think I was just earlier than everyone else.
Their new rules are going to be to gag anybody who stands up for freedom or stands up for Donald Trump or stands up against them.
And then Keith Overman, though, can call for our deaths, but that's okay.
Yeah, I don't know.
I've never been able to understand how he types while wearing a street jacket.
I was about to say, last thing, you notice all over the news, the Democrats CNN said it's bullying Don Lemon to call him stupid.
He's a public figure that calls Trump a racist, all these names.
And then a grown man can't handle another grown man calling him stupid.
And they say they're going to ban the president off Twitter.
Yeah, if the shoe fits, you know, I mean, Don Lemon is not an intellectual giant to say the least.
I've heard a great story about him going into a restaurant and trying to order Sorbet.
He said, you mean Sorbet?
He says, no, Sorbet.
So, I mean, look, this guy is no genius.
But if you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen.
I mean, he bashes the president, says that he's mentally incompetent, that he's losing touch with reality.
Oh, that's perfectly all right.
And when the president comes back and correctly says he's dumb as a brick, oh, he's bullying the media.
The budget is on sense.
All right, Roger, thank you for getting your meeting.
But I agree, the forces of God are on the march.
But the hubris, the arrogance, the insanity of the Democrats, the globalists, the mainstream media is still a dangerous combination.
And we're all sitting on the edge of something big here.
Thank you, Roger.
Well, I'm heading to Austin.
I look forward to being with you Monday and Tuesday next week in studio.
Great.
Thank you, Roger.
Many thanks, Alex.
Okay, we're going to go to your phone calls right now.
I just, do you understand?
I know you understand, but we don't get any Russian money.
We don't have anything to do with the Russians other than Daria came here, the anti-communist from Russia and was in army special operations.
I'll leave it at that.
Super patriot.
We have an evil Russian working here, though I can tell you that she does a great job.
But they never have evidence.
They never show anything.
They all they do is just say, I'm a Russian agent and I need to be shut down.
Yes, sir.
We shut him down at lunch.
We saw they were number one at lunch.
We shut him.
Good.
Good.
You do that faster.
I mean, do you understand?
They're banning thousands of prominent libertarians, Christians, conservatives now, and then big liberals that are more libertarian, but that are powerful.
They're banning them now and they're trying to kick PewDiePie off because now he's got 20 billion views.
It's up 2 billion views in the last few months.
20 billion views.
Nothing's got 20 billion views.
I should be PewDiePie obsessed.
We all should be.
But they demonetized it.
All of it.
They thought, we want you to come work for us.
We want you to fly and meet with us at Google.
This has all come out, by the way.
They called them a year ago and they said, we want you to come here and meet with us.
They said, no, I want to just keep doing what I do on my channels.
That was back when we had 15 billion views and then all hell broke loose.
Non-political comedy out of Europe, 20 billion views.
Everything he does, hundreds of millions of views.
The Super Bowl has 80 million.
Every day has hundreds of millions.
They can't stand that.
They, you think, Hollywood and the mainstream media and all these people are going to just let DrudgeReport.com have a billion visitors every month or whatever it is.
It's some ridiculous number like that.
You think they're going to let us have hundreds of millions?
You think they're going to let PewDiePie have 20 billion views on YouTube?
No.
And you're like, okay, well, let's just create our own platform.
Then they use regulations and stuff to shut that down.
They've got groups lobbying to shut down GAB.
They've kicked it off.
It's servers five or six times.
The guy that owns that lives here in Austin, we're going to get him on again, studio.
I mean, Amazon.com owns the Washington Post, a bunch of other stuff.
Jeff Bezos does.
And they're actively trying to get us shut down.
I mean, this jerk has $110 billion himself that we know of.
And then he wants me shut up.
And then I come home and his boxes are in my house.
Not anymore, though.
People go, well, then why are you launching Amazon pages?
Because then they put off Chinese knockoffs on there of our products undercut.
So we have to be on Amazon to be able to then declare that it's our products.
Or I'm going to have to sue Amazon.
But you notice I don't plug, get our stuff at Amazon.
It's all strategic.
And that's how people play games with our audience.
Look, Jones.
Jones says he's anti-Amazon, but then he's on it.
Exactly.
Just like Trump has to do some things.
You got to be in the swamp to train it.
We had hundreds of resellers, most of it faked.
And it was becoming a big problem.
We were having groups test it and find things in it.
And we looked.
It wasn't ours.
China.
You can look it up.
So I've got to be able to have a store on eBay to shut down the fake stuff on eBay.
I've got to have a store on Amazon to shut down the fake stuff.
That's how it works.
But good Lord, ladies and gentlemen, it is insane.
And I'm not whining, but we're in a war.
I'm on the deck of the ship.
They are shooting at us.
And when you pray for us, when you spread the articles, when you spread the videos,
and when you go and buy t-shirts and spread the word, meet like-minded people.
When you buy books, you buy films, it changes the world.
I promise I'm going to Brandon, Mark and Jim right when we come back in Lewis and Tristan.
It's going to happen.
But I've got a plug.
We won't be here.
Christmas every year helps us fund to the next year.
Decide if we're going to be able to stay the same or grow or contract.
And luckily by the grace of God, we've been expanding for 22 years.
Infowarsstore.com, Infowarslife.com.
You need to check out the new products that are there.
They're amazing.
We've got free shipping store wide.
We've got Alpha Power, our newest product, 50% off out of the gates.
The real red pill, incredible 50% off.
DNA 433% off.
It's amazing.
Survival shield, 50% off.
Knockout, 50% off.
Prostagar, 50% off.
Vitamineral, 50% off.
Infowarslife selects durable foods.
And that's the name of our foods.
It's a select, but it's the full spectrum of my Patreon.
50% off.
Plus much, much more at Infowarsstore.com or 888-253-3139.
And Brain Force is amazing.
It's 50% off.
It's all there.
Infowarsstore.com.
But we had to end some of these specials because they're, the products are selling out.
The toothpaste, by the way, is close to selling out.
People are ordering incredible supplies.
Fluoride free and plant.
It's got iodine, high quality and colloidal silver.
It's amazing.
Great stocking stuff.
A great gift.
Infowarslife.com.
Help get your family off of fluoride.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered from around the world
and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes
instead of using synthetic chemicals.
Infowarslife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at Infowarslife.com.
That's Infowarslife.com.
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza brought to you by Infowars
and it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas.
You know, Christmas is about Christmas.
And to celebrate this, we've got the biggest sales in the history of Infowars and InfowarsTour.com.
50 to 67% off all our best-selling items and free shipping.
A lot of these items, high-quality supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel,
water filtration, you name it, is lost leader prices right now
because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ
and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only
at Infowars.com.
Again, it is the Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza.
Mike in Arizona here on the air worldwide. Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot
and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime Infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force,
Anthroplex. My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks
who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the Infowars Life products.
They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots,
help our other countrymen and women understand that there's a bigger problems going on
and if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves,
we can take our country back.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Yeah, hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick,
I'm a longtime listener of Infowars,
and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering
are absolutely fantastic,
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the Infowars.
It might seem like a simple thing,
but they're particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now
are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the Don't Tread on Me,
but it says Won't Tread on Me, and it's a big Deglo snake,
Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag,
Infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people
and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning t-shirt.
Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger
with a yield sign in the Infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at Infowars.com.
He is Alex Jones.
By the way, I've got to apologize to Max Kaiser.
My crew is so great, but I kind of produced my own show.
They set up the guest to do a lot of work,
but they run all the cameras and do great research,
but I just kept going with Roger Stone,
and Max Kaiser was supposed to be on, and I just didn't even notice.
And I promised to go to your calls,
so we're going to go to him now instead of getting Max Kaiser on,
but I apologize to Max Kaiser.
That was not an on-purpose thing.
I've been wanting to get him on about the rise of cryptocurrency
that he was absolutely right about.
So we have on.
Just whoever keeps being right.
Just like that's what we're into.
You know, we're into being right.
We're into telling you the truth.
We don't think it's cool to lie to people or sneak around
or, you know, trip people.
I like a lot of little Satanists, dude.
We like to actually build civilization.
We don't like to kill innocent people,
but I'll be honest with you, we do.
I don't want to hurt bad people.
Jim, Mark, Brandon, Bohem, and many others.
Who's been holding the longest here?
Let's go ahead and talk to who's up first here.
Who's up first?
Okay, Mark and Santa Cruz.
Mark, you're on the air.
Welcome.
Yeah, your reputation is amazing.
We won't let you down here on KOMY.
I'm standing here on Pacific Avenue here in Santa Cruz.
At 9.30, I'm buying cookies for those that show up.
We're going to burn off for the Alex Jones show here.
That sounds exciting, sir.
Talk right on your telephone.
I'm making most of it out, but go ahead.
Okay.
And also, I was glad to hear John Kelly kicked Amorosa's
wedding party out.
But why did they have a ban on Info Wars in the first place?
I'm glad it was lifted.
But can you really embellish that a lot?
Tell us more.
We're waiting to hear why a general that's protecting our
president, it was not allowing the president to get the most
accurate information, good or bad, that there is Info Wars.
Now, why is that?
Let me ask you a question, Mark, and I appreciate your call.
Here's how this stuff works.
The media hates us the most and wants to make us look like
we're discredited.
So it was an appeal to authority.
Kelly banned everybody just handing him wads of stuff
constantly because Trump, you know, is like ADHD.
In a good way, like most successful people are.
He's all over the place.
You know, he loves Info.
And so they just said, we got to contain the leaks.
We got to stop getting everything.
So the media kind of spun it.
Oh, Info Wars is banned and Drudge is banned.
But really everything was being banned for a while.
And I'm not saying Kelly's a saint, but the word is he is.
He is more of a patriot than we were told.
And so the word is now Trump is getting our information now
that they've exactly found out who the leakers are.
And so that was Kelly's plan, completely contain everything.
And then then you'll find out who the leakers are.
So that's the best intel I've got, but that Trump is,
is getting our information.
I can tell you that.
Well, that is very good.
And also it was interesting yesterday on Info Wars,
they had this guy that basically intimated that they came in
from other states to vote against Roy Moore.
And you can see the girl standing right next to him when he said,
yeah, we all voted and we all got Roy Moore.
I forget exactly what he said, but it's so obvious.
Yeah, we came in from other cities to vote into Canvas.
And the Democrats are on video everywhere saying
they engage in election fraud.
And again, he was going to lose by 10 to 15 points, we were told.
20 points, some media said.
And they lost by have a point.
That right there is how they steal it.
Yeah, there's the article, Alabama vote fraud.
Doug Jones supporter says we came from different parts of the country.
And it's just all a big sick joke.
Hey, we came into Alabama and we all voted the names of dead people.
You dumb Alabamans.
And, you know, now you're going to get Doug Jones.
We're going to turn your state blue one way or the other.
Oh, there's so many Christians in Alabama.
I guarantee you judge Roy Moore won.
They're lying.
Of course he did.
But I mean, the whole point of don't die on that hill.
Now we got to work.
They're going to use this tactic in every state of mass fraud coming in.
And we got to infiltrate the Democrat groups, the Canvas groups,
record them.
I mean, but people have to say, I'm going to dress like a communist,
or I'm going to hire somebody that does and people that got money, hire PIs,
whatever you got to do.
And it's time to fight.
This is the battle of the Republic.
You've got to then go into these things.
You've got to go into the commie meetings, go into the Soros meetings,
and hear them brag about how they're going to go stuff the ballot box.
And, you know, then you got to go with them on the bus to vote 10 times.
And, you know, I think committing a crime to expose a crime is like a sting.
I say, go in, vote, show it happened.
I'm not saying commit a crime.
You know, go all the way.
Show how you're able to do it in their midst.
It's going to take normal people.
And let me tell you, you invade one of these communist meetings.
They are the dumbest, most evil, slobbering, stupid, gibbering idiots there are.
I mean, but we're sitting here.
That's why they're in power.
Mark, I appreciate your call.
We're sitting here letting trash rule over us.
I'm not.
I'm not.
So and it's not because I'm Mr. Perfect, man, but I'm not a devil worshiper.
I'm not a pedophile and I'm not in league with these people and they want to run my life.
They want to dominate me.
Listen, they're going to get a fight.
So the fight just begun.
That's why I got exhausted when Trump wanted me to go.
Look, he's bad.
Trump won.
He probably make more money under Hillary.
No, I realized that Providence was happening and I could just see what was going to happen
next that I was going to be viciously attacked 10 times 10.
And it's people like, oh, good.
We're intimidating.
Let's do more.
No, I expect it.
I'll take it.
I just don't enjoy it.
I don't enjoy it.
I'm not a masochist.
Brandon, Alabama.
Thanks for holding your on the air.
Go ahead.
Alex, can you hear me?
Yes, sir.
Thanks for calling.
Appreciate all you do.
Thank you for accepting the call.
I'm not here in Arizona.
Not Alabama.
Sorry.
I got Alabama on the mind.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
So I just have a few bullet points.
I was wondering if I can get your thoughts or opinions on, um, maybe you have some inside
baseball through your sources that you can talk about, but it consisted of the CIA headquarters
being raided by the Marines recently mixed with 4,000 plus field indictments in all 94
districts, which could be for, you know, pedigree related mass arrests.
It could be nothing more than gang prosecution consisting of now.
Now, here's the question is I look at those reports.
Did the Marines really raid or, or that's just rumors that these are that that's why
I'm bringing it up to you.
I didn't know if you had any more definitive.
No, I mean, they're like the globalists run a lot of fake news sites that act like they're
patriots on purpose.
And notice the media never really covers that fake news.
They just put out fake news to confuse people.
So when they see a real bombshell story, they don't know what they're seeing.
Right.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Everything from like Hillary with a orthopedic boot, maybe actually wearing ankle braces
or bracelet.
But then, but then, but then there are photos of McCain with the boot on different feet.
I mean, yes, I don't know, man.
The whole point is the Russia gate thing is blown wide open.
Globalism is blown wide open.
Obama being behind ISIS is blown wide open.
There's just so many big things we could prove.
And the internet always runs wild with stuff you can't prove.
And then like I said, they have fake news stories.
Jones says gay men want to have sex with your tailpipe, you know, with your car.
I didn't say gay men.
I said, there's a huge fetish movement of having sex with cars and appliances.
It's all over television.
And I was simply saying, you know, am I going to have to like, you know, you get a marriage
license, you know, I have to accept this or, you know, maybe pay for a sex change if a
guy wants to have a radiator attached to him or something.
I mean, I was simply making that point.
They just put out the fake news that Jones is gay people want to rape your car.
I didn't say it.
Now you do at least agree, though, that Trump is peeling the onion on title ball rings,
kind of starting at the ground level.
And it seems like it's just going up the chain, right?
You agree on that?
Trump is trying to get the swamp to get out of the way of America's recovery and using swamp
people to execute it because they know how the operation works.
But I think overall Trump is doing a way better job than I thought he could do.
It's, it's quite frankly, unbelievable.
Absolutely.
And I appreciate you taking the time, Alex.
You're amazing.
I really do.
I appreciate you, brother.
I'm not amazing.
I did the best job I can.
I just need your prayers.
I just need your prayers because let me tell you, you get this level, the devil's real.
And it's like Agent Smith, normal people, like suddenly he's like, agent Smith, they
do horrible things to you.
I mean, I mean, it's crazy.
You're going along and they like get activated when they see you or in your own life and
they just do horrible things.
And I'm not whining about it.
I just want to win and I know Providence is real.
I want to defeat these people.
I want to stand up for the children.
God bless you.
I appreciate you, Brandon.
And so I do need your hopes and prayers.
And I mean, that's the number one thing, folks.
So thank you all for your support.
And please support local radio stations.
You know, they go through a lot getting ratings and support, but also the negative.
So please let your local stations know you appreciate it and become a sponsor, support
the sponsors and let them know why you're supporting the sponsors or if people it means
just hold on to money.
You're going to lose it all.
If you donate to our local stations, I think everybody should tithe the local stations
that carry our broadcast, $10, $100 a month, whatever you can afford $1,000.
A lot of stations take us from nighttime or just on the weekend to weekday prime time
because they get good ratings with us, sometimes top ratings on smaller stations against big
stations many times, but they also then get support.
And so if people will just put on their calendar to tithe to the local radio station, you're
listening to, don't count on somebody else to do it.
We're reaching a lot of people or here's another way to tithe.
On the side of your barn, put up the local radio station and the show or call the station
and say, I want to help pay for a billboard.
You've got the graphics art people.
I mean, big billboards, even big cities are like $5,000 a month, small towns like $500
a month.
I mean, every heart and mind we win is key.
We're in a war, folks.
This is it.
21st century warfare.
You want to fight for the Republic and the whole future of humanity?
This is it.
Your calls are 70 seconds away infowars.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind, super blue fluoride free products.
InfoWarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system.
Right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there, you have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
Alright well I'm glad we got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks you can't lose.
It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you Dr. Group from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work sir on this great product.
Sometimes I wish I wasn't it.
This operation is the very vanguard, the front line, the tip of the spear.
We're infowars, our audience, our crew.
We're the maniacs that are willing to take on the Patifal Satan Network.
And we've been having a victory.
Fights on, all over the world, the enemy is striking back.
But it is the animating contest of liberty.
You look at people trying to have the easy way out, they become sick, decadent slops.
But people that strive and stand up for what's good, they have empowered lives.
And I have just been so blessed by God, I want to thank God.
And I want to thank all of you.
I'm just so thankful for how we've been brought through these trials and tribulations.
And I think about just how fallen people are and how committed to evil they are.
It boggles the mind, the betrayal, the deception, the lowliness, the weakness.
But that's the way the cycle works, isn't it?
We have to be tested.
Yet it's been given eternal consciousness in God's great system that we're in the waiting room of, being tested.
Tereel, all the top scientists know it, the genetic engineers, the globalists.
They say, oh, we're going to create new realities, and this one's the false one.
Something else is running it.
We're going to make a really cool, we're going to make this whole new thing, everybody's going to go with us into it.
We've never heard of that before.
But the devil can't manufacture, can't create.
So he's got to get us to do it.
And he's trying to get us, made in the image of God, to build him his own new universe.
But then, of course, kill us when he's done.
He tells all the top architects that they're going to merge with these machines and he's going to take them with him.
Devils already got robots.
Doesn't need you.
You'll find out.
Jim in Toronto, Canada, thanks for holding. You're on the air. Welcome.
Hello. Hi, Alex. How you doing?
Good, brother. Good to hear your voice. How you doing?
Good, good. Pretty cold up here in Toronto and lots of snow, lots of bicycles hanging over all the rooftops.
I'm sure it's pretty warm down there.
Maybe old Jolly St. Nicolle draw by.
Yeah, thanks for all you do.
And, you know, I'm sure all the info worries are battling, keeping the battle going.
I want to talk about the, I guess, the mainstream media smear campaign and what they've been doing.
Specifically, the Access Hollywood tape.
And, you know, I've just been doing a bit of researching and I know the tape actually came out in 2005.
The recording was done in 2005, but it wasn't until October 2016 that the tape was officially made public by Billy Bush.
And just about a month after that, if you look on YouTube, a program came out.
It was a YouTube video about like a month after that came out at the Adobe Max Creativity Conference.
Adobe premiered one of their new audio editing suites called Vocal.
It's a voiceover conversion program.
They've had for decades now with voice print. They don't just use your voice for print. They can then synthesize it.
And they can even synthesize video like the Running Man where Mad Dog Ben Richards kills all the women and children, but he didn't really do it.
It's a computer map program. It's very old and you're absolutely right. Go ahead.
Hold on. This is too important. Stay there.
Talk about the software. We'll pull it up. And there's a lot of these out there.
They can do it so good with computers now that it'll beat voice print.
So we're going to come back and show World Reality News when we come back and talk about what Jim's bringing up.
I'm glad you brought this up. I keep meaning to bring this up.
That's why Trump's saying, yeah, it was on the bus, but it's fake because, again, that's what they can do.
They can edit deceptively, but they can also completely manufacture fake stuff now. We'll be right back.
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza brought to you by InfoWars.
And it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas. You know, Christmas is about Christmas.
And to celebrate this, we've got the biggest sales in the history of InfoWars and InfoWarsTour.com.
50 to 67% off all our bestselling items and free shipping.
A lot of these items, high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel, water filtration, you name it,
is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ
and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at InfoWars.com.
Again, it is the Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza.
Oh, yeah!
Oh, yeah!
Oh, yeah!
Go tell that long tongue liar, go and tell that midnight writer, tell the rambler, the gambler, the backbiter.
Tell him that God's gonna cut him down. Tell him that God's gonna cut him down.
Oh, yeah!
Well, my goodness, let me tell you the news.
We were just talking to Jim, he was getting into the Access Hollywood tape.
The Trump has said, yeah, I talked to that guy, but it sounds fake, it sounds edited.
Well, you can hear how it's all cut up, but more importantly, for decades,
the US government has had cutting-edge software where they could fake video of people
if they have a map of their face and have enough footage of their face or a 360-digital photo.
So a lot of you go into these clothing stores, have these body scanners,
they go, oh, it gives you the best fitting, or body scanners at the airport.
They show you a blurred image, they get a high-tech digital image.
Xbox Connect, all the systems, Microsoft systems, Sony systems,
can look through your walls and scan your body better than eyesight and know every pore.
It's like sonar, radar.
So they now have AI creating fake porn.
Deep fake algorithm puts Gal Gabbitt's face on the body of an adult movie star.
I mean, there's many examples of this.
So they're obviously readying this for Trump.
And that's what he's been getting at, that's what he's been talking about.
Here's a low-tech example of what they do.
And then we're going to go to Jim.
Megan Kelly aired about 10 months ago before she left Fox News,
a clip on her show saying, here's Alex Jones saying,
Hillary porters children to death in the basement of a pizza place.
And then she had the owner on.
And then she said that this clip is what I'm saying about this guy,
which I didn't say.
I mean, it would have been defaming him if I was saying it about him.
I was saying about Hillary funding ISIS and al-Qaeda that have sold kids into slavery
by the tens of thousands, murdered women, thrown gays off buildings.
And then I went through this whole rant about, I don't know if she's a devil,
worse, but really killing kids.
But, you know, with this whole story of the media ad out there,
specifically about Comet Ping Pong, and then later I said,
probably was made up, is made up to distract us onto that place
away from what was in the WikiLeaks.
But it takes time to figure this out.
I do this whole rant about that and they edited it together.
It's video, but audio on video, totally clear what I said at the beginning and the end.
And they put it out.
I'm saying she's in the basement herself, torturing and killing kids.
And they edited the tape, mixed it around, edited it, cut the front off the back off,
and played like a minute on the show of fake audio.
That's why when Megan Kelly called me and played dumb on the phone and started hitting on me,
I said, let me, I never take people, you know, clandestinely,
but on that case I did because I could tell it was a setup.
So there was a big Hillary sex scandal to break.
Mainstream media had all reported on it.
They just covered it up by creating a fake one.
Then they put it on me and say, I'm fake news for being the one that went and reported on it,
covered it, and then debunked what was happening.
Then I become the guy who's guilty and who supposedly needs to, you know, be put out of business for it.
So that's how they operate, ladies and gentlemen.
But regardless, you have to take any video or any tape at face value after you have experts,
forensic experts look at it, you see long clips of it.
You can't sit there and take it at face value when it comes out for these people because they've been caught.
Exclusive, prominent lawyer sought donor cash for two Trump accusers.
Confirmed the Hill, what we told you months ago and days ago, what Bill O'Reilly said.
And I must think Bill O'Reilly didn't hit on women and really weird stuff in the transcripts like,
oh baby, you got a falafel in there, you know, you want to have sex with a sandwich.
I mean, it was really weird. No wonder he can't get women.
I mean, little tip O'Reilly, you don't want to call up, you know, your producer if you want to take her out
and tell her, you know, off the bat that she want to, you know, shove us, you know, shove a sandwich.
I mean, you're a pervert, and you should have gotten in trouble.
What, 15 million to one woman for a pervert call?
You know, how he wants her to do stuff with food?
And it wasn't like chocolate sauce or something. It was really stupid.
So there's lots of examples of this and ways they can carry out fake news,
but it's something we have to look at. So I'm really glad that Jim brought this up.
We would have some of the videos that are online.
We'll put some on screen for TV viewers. I'll verbally tell you some of the companies and sites that do this,
where if you can get a sample of somebody talking, a big enough one,
you can then create entire conversations with a computer where it's in that voice.
They're not doing it with famous orators and famous British, you know, voices for computer voices.
And they get them to talk enough, the computer then can do it so good, voice print,
can't tell it's not the real person.
And you can talk into a computer and then an hour later, if it's, so imagine a talk show host, a radio host,
somebody like Donald Trump, you can take all these recordings.
You can even, if it's like, even if it's a broadcast voice, they can cut it down to make it sound like it was recorded in a room.
And so this is the type of stuff they're engaged in.
And their big problem is it usually takes teams to do this.
Now it doesn't take teams. One person and the software that's been out there for 20 years,
it would just take months to do it, editing it, getting it right, shorter comments.
Now they can just whole cloth.
I can up here and say, I love black people. I love white people. I love all people.
I care about humanity.
And they can, the exact same voice that can fool a computer, have me saying, I hate N-word, blah, blah, blah, all this garbage.
So remember that, folks. Remember.
Jim, go ahead and finish your points about Axis, Hollywood, and Trump saying he thinks the tape was highly edited and fake.
Absolutely. Go ahead.
Yeah, basically, I don't know when the Adobe's program Vocal came out, but there's a demo of it, quite a nice one on YouTube,
where basically I can take a recording of yourself, anybody, in MP3.
I import it into the program.
And what it does is it translates the audio into text, right in front of you, and then you can add in, you can sub in words, you can delete words.
And that's consumer grade.
Yes, commercially, they had to put the brakes on it because of trademark, because of security problems and issues.
There was a big pushback.
Yeah, because it lets people break into voice print.
Well, I went to Adobe's website. You can't buy it there.
And it was a couple of other articles written by BBC.
I saw that. See, that's the issue is it's Pandora's box.
It's Pandora's, but we're getting technology that is just going to absolutely destabilize civilization.
So the fact is, is that maybe this program was in the Hollywood production houses, and they had this tape of Trump that just sat there and they thought,
okay, you know what, Billy, Billy, sir, sir, they don't just have it. Hollywood is changing all its contracts.
They brought John Wayne back.
They're bringing back everybody and just saying they just own them and they can have John Wayne get up there and say,
I love communism and I hate America and it looks and sounds just like John Wayne.
Yeah, for sure.
So look, I mean, we all know, you know, Hollywood is not Trump's friend.
So any opportunity might be able to take that actually tweak some words.
And him saying it's fake. Absolutely. Absolutely. Because just how they edited it is fake.
God bless you. That's a great point.
Since he mentioned it, thank you, Jim.
Let's play a clip from the demo he was, he was talking about where they put their voice in and then it just copies it and says something else.
Here it is.
My dogs and my wife in that order.
Yeah. So how about we mess with who he actually kissed?
So I just load this audio piece into a vocal.
So wait a second.
And we have this.
So as you can see, let me zoom in a little bit.
So as you can see, we have the audio waveform above it and we have the text down to it.
And when we play back the text and audio should play back at the same time.
So let's try it.
And I kissed my dogs and my wife.
Okay. So let's do something here.
Okay. So suppose Michael K wants to send your phone calls, but you just noticed copied it.
But it wasn't a recording.
The computer instantly copied his voice.
And then they change it, have it say, off that one sample, one little sample.
They create a bunch of other stuff.
Mad Dog Ben Richards, the brutal slayer of 50 men, women and children,
here to fight for his future in life on The Running Man.
The U.S.
California, USA.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
Individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Realistic treatments may be eligible for sharing, see guidelines, discount programs available
for dental, vision, and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
A commemorative President Trump dollar for only $5?
Yes, the historic Trump dollar starts at only $5 at trumpdollar.us.
Choose from our unique three-coin collection in gold, silver, and copper.
The vote Trump dollar, inaugural Trump dollar, and make America great again Trump dollar.
Available only at trumpdollar.us.
Minted in the USA, our Trump dollars commemorate President Trump's patriotic stand.
Order your Trump dollar collection today in time for Christmas delivery at trumpdollar.us.
That's trumpdollar.us.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the U.S. to create the strongest, most
concentrated, over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months, and from seeing my friends and family
use it, that this new product is going to end up being the number one best-selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself, and then rest assured you're fighting the
Info War so it's a total absolute sure-win, no-lose equation.
Try alpha power.
Exclusively available.
InfoWarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports.
It's for activities.
And it's made in the U.S.A. Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
I want to plow into all of this.
Then I'm going to spend a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand
that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material
from infowarsstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarsstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine in it.
You cannot beat that for children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well.
It's infowarslife.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are and they know we know who they are and they're coming back against
us so we need your support.
Now back in school, there were certain teachers who hurt the children any way they could.
That was because at night, their fat and psychopathic lives beat them within inches of their lives.
I'm Alex Jones, your host.
I want to go quickly through your calls because they're all so great and they bring up things
that I've forgotten to cover and many cases things I didn't even know about.
But I know this, we've got to run from the globalist, take back our civilization, take
back our culture, take back our innovation and make the devil get behind us.
Because we're running scared because we're marching out of the Babylon, into the stars,
into the future, run, run, run, run, run, run, because the parasites can't innovate.
We have to run and innovate and run and innovate and run and innovate and run and innovate.
Alright, since we're mentioning it, Access Hollywood, I forgot about this Delby program
that anybody can get and then they didn't release it.
I remember seeing that in the news because it had so many problems.
You imagine what people would do.
I mean, all the little creeps out there and this is old technology.
So he records it.
He has it played back.
The computer can copy it.
Then he can change words just from one sentence and have it now say off one sentence, other
words that beat voice print.
And this is just like I told people 22 years ago that they were putting cameras and microphones
in appliances to watch you.
That was because it was in industry publications and they're like, oh, you're crazy, but I'm
still crazy even after it's all admitted and I was exactly right because they just put
a stigma C on caring.
Well, you know what?
I'm glad to take that stigma because in the end, it's no stigma at all.
When your whole facade collapses, then where is it to be right?
Let's see.
I'm a recluse.
I'm not trying to be cool from a neighbor's or anybody else.
I'm trying to be cool for the force of the universe, God, I can feel it and it guides
me and I know what I'm doing right.
I know what I'm doing wrong.
It's a steady hand and I just have to be good and you have to be good and just say, because
God gives you free will.
You have to say, Father, I want you to guide me.
I want you to lead me.
I want you to direct me.
And it's only when things get really bad that you actually let God direct you.
And then then you truly know just how real it is, the more humble you get, the closer
you get to God.
And I don't want anybody to ever think when I'm confident that I'm being arrogant, I'm
being confident, but I'm also mocking the globalist coldly because that's what gets
through to them.
And I do want to demoralize them.
That's not the word to use, but it's the word we have.
I want to break them.
I want to be a weapon.
I want to crush them.
I want God to take me and just throw me against them no matter what happens.
And it's that spirit of realizing your children have no future if we don't beat these people.
It's not like some altruistic goody-touches thing that we want to die like heroes, just
to be heroes.
We understand there is no future if we don't beat these people.
It's going to become very clear very soon how far gone we already are.
And by the time we turn the ship around, it's still going to be real bad, folks.
The mental illness, the evil, the genetic damage, we're going to be so damaged that
they're going to say, oh, we have computers and gene editing and everything for you.
Just join in with us and we'll take care of you.
You have to be willing to die.
I would never take a Buddhist or a Christian or an atheist liver to live Chinese liver.
When David Rockefeller had six heart transplants before he died, most of them out shy, a little
inside baseball.
He was on such a power trip four years ago before he went to his last Bilderberg or three
years ago that he had a heart transplant two days before he went.
Now, I'll give him that.
He had some will, didn't he?
But it was a will to hurt people.
And he wanted to be at those tables of power.
He wanted to hold on to this life as long as he could, but he didn't.
You know where David Rockefeller does now, with other spirits like his and no more blood
to suck, vampires in their eternal death, in their spiritual coffins for eternity alone.
Not from God, that's hell.
The lake of fire is a metaphor.
All right, I said I'd go to your calls and I didn't, but I've gone to a lot of them.
I'm going to go to Tristan, Jeff, Bohem, Devon, Clint, Lewis, I'll get to all those calls
for the transmission ends.
Paul Watts is coming up in the fourth hour, but I've got to say this or we won't be able
to find ourselves plus the great product you need.
Yeah, they go, look, Jones sells vitamins and minerals and water filters and air filters
and everything is good for you.
It doesn't mean I'm the perfect person, it just means everything we bring you is the
very best we can.
We have store-wide free shipping and we have great products.
Cell Force is the bio PQQ, the CoQ10, all the other things, promotes cellular energy
production, optimal mental health, supports cardiovascular health, but it's not a stimulant.
It's the building blocks, the brain, the heart, the body, associated with nerve, regrowth.
Cell Force is basically DNA force, but a different formula where it's still really expensive
formula for us, but not as expensive.
I think we're just going to have DNA force up there at the regular price and have Cell
Force as the discounted one, but it's apples and oranges, which ones is even better, they're
both excellent, and one's 33% off right now, one's 50% off, but that's what it is and it's
really incredible.
If you can afford it, it's the best thing you can do for yourself, your children or
family.
I saw a caller yesterday ask, hey, can you have caveman and children?
Absolutely, it's not a drug, it's not even a supplement.
It's concentrated organic chicken bone broth.
We don't really have the equations for it, but it's like hundreds of bowls of chicken
soup, but not with the calories.
When you talk about essence of strength, people are just going, I mean, just try it.
I mix it in with our organic way that we sell it, super high quality and grass-fed, super
good.
Our way is just private label from the top company in the U.S., and we just sell it for
$5 to $10 less than they do, but caveman is proprietary.
I saw how big bone broth was, now it's the big hit with the Olympic people and everything,
and I said, well, why not just take something super concentrated?
No one's done this, by the way.
It's ultimate bone broth formula.
We call it caveman.
I'm going to change the name, I think, because this successful product was our best seller
for a while, and I never really just promoted it.
I mean, I really should promote it more because it's only some paleo thing where you say paleo
for the diet, it's like they used to eat the bones, everybody knew the bones were what
you wanted.
And so that's why it's so powerful, look at the chaga mushroom, so much more.
50% off, try caveman and chocolate or strawberry flavor, infowarslife.com or triple aid 2533139,
and all these specials have got to end in the next few days.
Order by the 18th, have delivery guaranteed in the U.S. before Christmas, so thank you
all for your support.
The massive savings are going to end soon at infowarstore.com.
Have you ever lost your power and wanted to simply flip a switch to get the lights back
on?
If so, pay close attention because huge discounts are now available in solar generators.
Perfect for backup power outages and emergencies.
Portable solar generators provide life-saving electrical power when you need it most, and
unlike gas generators, a solar generator runs quietly, emits no dangerous fumes, and produces
an endless supply of electricity from the sun.
It's like having an electric power plant running secretly in your own home.
Right now, get a $5,000 solar generator for just $995 while supplies last.
Go to mysolarbackup.com to learn more.
That's mysolarbackup.com.
GCN listeners, use coupon code GCN at checkout for this special offer.
Mysolarbackup.com, use coupon code GCN, EMP protection available at an additional charge.
You deserve a deep rest whole sleep with knockout by infowar's life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info War's Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Brainforce Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brainforce Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male
vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
Infowarslife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption.
This is Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the infowar.
We have microchip identification devices implanted into their body.
Out of a long line of heartache I carry it well, the list of lives I've broken reach
from here to hell.
Bad luck when been blowing at my back.
Starting to turn around though, isn't it?
I pray you don't look at me.
I pray I don't look.
And the spirit of evil, the spirit of disease, wants to keep this nation broken.
They want to continue to suck off of us the vampires.
They don't just want the money.
They want us poor so we have to beg to them.
Well, I want to make you rich, I want to make you spiritually rich, I want to make you powerful,
I want to make you successful, I want to make you honorable, I want to make you close to
God.
Because that's what I want and see I'm too arrogant is not the word, but it's a close
word.
I'm too arrogant to want to put you down to feel big.
I'm too confident.
I'm too self-assured to want to see you fail.
And then I realize a lot of people want to see other people fail.
They want to make you miserable and stupid.
They enjoy lying to you.
They enjoy screwing you over.
And if you understand that, you understand basically everything.
There are people that will go out of their way to cheat you rather than successfully
make money with you and build a future.
They're evil.
It doesn't make sense.
It'd be better for them just to build, but they cannot help it.
Like Zuckerberg calling his users that trust him dumb efforts.
But his own engineers are coming out and saying, no, we plan to hurt people and it is hurting
people and it's consciously evil.
We've got like a whole bunch of executives with the former president, the former head
of development coming out saying, man, this is really bad and we knew it was bad.
How much more worse is it going to get?
Because they don't want to have one big story to buy everything from, so we all move into
the future together.
They want one big store like Amazon.
They want one big thing like Google because they got a plan and they're going to make
you do it and they think it's funny.
And when I see the public dumb down and weak, it doesn't make me feel strong.
It makes globalists feel strong to see weak people all around them.
It makes me feel weak.
When I see people weak, when I see people stupid, when I see people falling down, it
makes me feel weak.
When I see great art, great literature, great music, great culture, great courage, I don't
care what color you are, where you're from.
I feel like I'm winning.
I feel a celebration, but the psychopaths and the sociopaths, they look at me and they
think I'm stupid.
Well, let me tell them something.
All that evil you think is the universe and that you think is power is only one aspect
and you will be destroyed.
You will be destroyed.
You're so in love with yourselves.
These globalists all over the world that are like Junker in red, German, Nazi royalty,
all of them are jokes, ladies and gentlemen.
We ought to thank God every minute we're not them and we should reject Hollywood and
mainstream media and the stupid, arrogant NFL.
It's a joke.
It's all weapons formed against us in their own admissions.
I want to go to more of your phone calls and I need to because I've got to play this clip
before Paul Watson comes on.
And the reason I didn't play at the start of the show is quite frankly, I watched it
this morning at about 530.
I couldn't sleep.
I got up and I went online and I was looking at stuff and I saw this put out by the Dutch
government and it, it's so sick that I don't feel like I'm worthy to even describe how
sick it is.
Just I don't, I've got too much to say.
I don't, you've got this weak, soft bureaucrat getting off on making a down syndrome man
feel bad and feel worthless like he should die and it's all done real cutesy and fake
and liberal by an effeminate, he's not going to, it's wrong to women, he's not effeminate
by a soft little beta male who gets off on that he's better in his mind than this person
with down syndrome who if anybody knows those people definitely are in touch with God and
have a big soul.
And I look at this soulless guy that looks deformed and ugly to me.
The down syndrome guy with his open face listening and giving honest answers, that sounds like
God to me and then the other guy sounds like somebody I want to strangle.
My soul says that's the enemy and these people sit there making fun of this guy and that's
everything I'm talking about.
I am so tired of it.
How they take the innocence of somebody like this and they piss all over it to their liberal
audience that thinks it's all funny when you're all going to be there, you're all, the cancer
rates you think they're bad now, they're only going, I mean everybody thinks this is so
funny, this is not funny and if you sit there and start saying we're going to abort every
down syndrome child, then it's going to be everybody with what they say is a genetic
disorder and they already say being aggressive is mentally ill.
They already say Donald Trump being pigheaded and delivering on his promises and really
believing in America is mental illness because they're mentally ill.
They already sold out to evil, they already think it's crazy to have morals, they don't
get the fact that that's the governing force that allows us to have a civilization.
We're bigger killers than you, you dumbasses, we just have a governor and we will kill you,
make no mistake, you're pushing it and when we start killing you, I don't even like to
go down that road because I don't want to become what you imagine you are.
But I'll tell you this, you think you're going to kill little mentally retarded children,
oh don't use the word retarded, just kill them, see how political correctness works?
You think you're going to do stuff like that and you're going to get away with something,
you're going to feel powerful, you're going to spiritually waddle around in front of
somebody who's got an extra chromosome and look down on them because you're such a big
man.
But I guarantee you have a miserable, horrible life and you want to creep out your, creepily
bring out your eugenics again after it got a big fat black eye under Herr Hitler and you
want to shove it down our throats because once they get everybody involved in global
health care and socialism, they go well we're paying for all these old people, we're paying
for all these mentally retarded people and I can't tell you how many old people I know
that vote for higher taxes thinking they're getting a piece of it and then when they get
their house taken they commit suicide.
They're genetically sabotaging us right now with the GMO to make us all genetically falling
apart to then make us all have to go in for genetic engineering to even have kids.
That's their admitted ultimate game plan and then we're going to be replicants thinking
we're having kids and we're having replicants, they're already going, we're going to have
a first child, they have embryos, they've frozen them, they're looking to implant them
in surrogates, five lesbians and if you're against it, you're against lesbians and we
have the first baby with five daddies.
That's not a person but see it's the whole LGBTQ whatever, it's not about men, women
having sex, men having sex, that's just the beginning, oh if you accept men having sex
with each other, which you know that's people, that's humans, then it's oh sex with your
car is okay or gouge your eyeballs out, we'll pay for it with taxes and they call that anti-gay
rant.
This is their deployed anti-human plan that I don't think comes from here.
I think this must be like how they roll this out on other planets, you know like Exterminator,
the Orkan man just dropped by and this is it, hell maybe even the Orkan man gave us
the Bible because metaphysically he's got to give us a warning, here's how I'm going
to kill you, then it's all happening, I mean for the say to stop there, maybe that's what
it is, I mean I'm not saying that's what it is but yeah, I see you now you get it.
Our B-vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels, up,
up, up, up, optimum levels, with our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended
amount of B-vitamins we need every day, up, up, up, up, optimum levels, B-vitamins we need
every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption, up, up,
up, up, optimal absorption, being deficient in B-vitamins can cause fatigue, depression,
or memory and lethargy, secret 12, up, up, up, up, optimal absorption, B-vitamins help
the body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes, B-vitamins
are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system, up, up, up,
up, optimum levels, secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake, head
to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with secret 12, that's
infowarslife.com.
I'm so excited, the new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy does it stimulate, because it's beyond that, quite frankly, I just went off what
I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but it wasn't prescription, but
they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae and I came up with our own formulae
working with some scientists and developers, non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules
and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglenone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands, it is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase funds the operation.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality infowars biome defense
probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Explore your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We have been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public,
so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the info war to fight the globalist and limited free society.
Several years ago I set out with top formulators in the US to create the strongest, most concentrated
over the top stamina libido workout brain formula that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months and from seeing my friends and family
use it that this new product is going to end up being the number one best selling product
at infowarslife.com because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself and then rest assured you're finding the info
war so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try alpha power exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non GMO, it's for your brain, it's for sports, it's for activities
and it's made in the USA.
Get your alpha power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try alpha power today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption, it's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of
the info war.
I wondered so wainless, I filled with sin, I wouldn't let my dear savior in, then Jesus
came like a stranger in the night.
Praise the Lord, I saw the light.
I saw the light.
I saw the light, I saw the light, no more darkness, no more night.
It's not going to find the light in most of those churches, those are dins of devils.
It'll find God on your knees trying to seek the truth.
Enough about that.
Just the evil world is to be so close to God because that's what it is.
I got all these calls to get to, you know, I mentioned this sickening video put out with
the Dutch National Institutes for Public Health where they have this sweet down syndrome
gentleman and everybody says it, but I've known folks that are like this, they say they're
super smart in ways, emotionally, spiritually, really strong physically and, but again, they
say all of us have genetic disorders.
That's another fraud.
They say, oh cancer is up because our genetics are bad, no, we have bad things in our environment
that under our genetics kill us.
They lie while everybody's getting sicker and sicker and don't point out what's really
happening.
They go, oh, you're predisposed to lung cancer.
We're really smoking his way down, but lung cancer is up, on and on and on.
No, the fluoride causes it and you know it does.
Yes, genetically, if I get a bunch of fluoride, I get lung cancer, bone cancer, you know that.
It's like I get shot in the head genetically, I bleed out and die.
So they play these games, go, oh, you're all dying, your genetics are bad, and then they
point at somebody that's got an extra chromosome in God's plan and say, we should not let people
have these children and not let them have insurance if they get these children because
we're all paying.
See, I don't want to be in your communist system where everything I do is controlled
because I'm connected to somebody else.
I want my own house, my own life, my own children, my own wife, and they've got me.
We do what we want.
We're free.
Got that?
That's why collectivism is a unmitigated nightmare.
I want to go to your calls, but right now let's go to just a clip of this.
It's in Dutch, so I will, I will obviously read the, read the words that are below on
the screen.
Here it is.
The Dutch National Institute of Health, the Environmental Request, the latest counter
that circulated, what the cost of the care for the downer is, they call it the downer.
And that has not happened.
Today, short will hear the result.
If you want to know what the spelling is on the advantage of the person, this is too
fast.
Yes, for sure, I want to know.
Well, then you have to take this number and divide it with that number.
And again, I asked him before, they go, do you know how much you cost?
And he chose them.
He cost way more.
And see, he just learns.
He's a bad person.
You're bad because, you know, they have to take care of you, because you got rid of
the family.
You created socialism.
So now you have to take care of him.
So you want him dead because you're not his daddy, so he cost us society 48,000 euros
per year.
This is a considerable amount, but it's high compared to normal persons.
Oh, they call him normal.
You're not normal.
See, but it's okay because liberals can call somebody they want to kill not normal.
You can calculate that by taking big number from 90 billion, divide that amount by the
number of citizens in the Netherlands.
They're approximately 17 million, that will give you approximately about 5,000 euros per
person a year.
Yeah, and old people too, you got to take care of them, and blind people, you're a very
valuable man, if they make fun of him, see, I'm going to be honest, I'm not making threats.
I just, when I watch this, I want to kick both of those smart ass piles of crap's asses
when I watch something like this.
The poor Down syndrome guy doesn't have the ego.
He doesn't, for whatever reason, he doesn't have the chicken, you know what, crap dimension
behavior.
So he's just taking it as his, these are his friends, he's like, I am valuable, wow.
And they're sitting there making fun of him going, you're very valuable, my friend.
They didn't say, hey, you're a piece of crap, we don't want to pay for you, at least you
can be honest.
No, you look at him and you make fun of him on Dutch television.
Every one of us has what they call genetic disorders, every one of us.
This is the perfect system to tell us how we're all equal and can put drain on our eyes
or cut our genitals off and have taxpayers pay for it.
It's all beautiful, don't criticize anybody, but we're going to kill the old people, the
case for killing Granny, cover a news week, and we're going to kill people with genetic
disorders because we're liberal and we're going to have suicide nets at Apple factories
in Foxcom in China and we're going to have slave labor at Amazon, but it's all okay
because we're liberal.
And then you've got a bunch of weird people that have been domesticated following the
left and now they don't even, they admit they're just a power cult, they're like, we're not
getting anything, we want to get stuff, we've been told if we take you over, we get stuff.
As if you idiots are going to get anything once they blow the free market.
They want a monopoly, they want a centralized technocracy run by an AI supercomputer.
They believe it's going to hook them in and make them gods.
This is a cult, we need to stop it.
If we don't take care of the Down syndrome people, no one's going to be taken care of.
We create economies about love.
They used to have hospitals until a thousand years ago, they created the hospitalers.
They created whole markets.
Civilization is about taking care of people, civilization, but I noticed the very groups
telling you about social safety nets like Bill Gates are always the ones saying, if
we kill this old lady and don't give her the last year of care, we can hire 10 teachers.
Sure, you don't make her stay alive, so there's some truth to it, but you don't kill her and
don't give her healthcare because she no longer, the bioethics board decided, helped society.
So back that up 20 seconds.
Here's the Down syndrome.
He's not a human, according to them, the normal people.
He's the downer.
You are a downer.
Here in the Netherlands, you are a dot.
That's Russian, dot.
You're vol.
Yes, you're vol.
You are a downer, you are not normal.
You cost as much more people than pay to take care of you, so that's having an economy
about humans.
They want to get rid of an economy of humans, just like nobody bags your groceries.
Nobody cleans the table at the restaurant because, oh, you just don't have that.
You throw it away.
It's all about no hospitality, no realness, and you're getting rid of a world run by
humans.
Oh, now robots can run the store because nobody demands to have a human.
Oh, see, we may, well, the burger went down 10 cents.
You're killing yourself, thinking you're getting ahead.
And they go, look, you're a very important person, because both men are academic liberals.
They can go, he doesn't get it.
And these are the very left to put the floor on your water, the cancer viruses, your vaccines.
They're just nasty people, and they love him because they can feel more superior.
But I just see the innocence of this man, and he's there, yes, thank you, I'm important.
He doesn't get the sociopathic stuff.
Somehow the Satanism transmission doesn't get to him, see?
God gave us these people to show us what someone only connected to God would look like, a child.
The enemy transmission doesn't get through.
And there, they're laughing at this guy who doesn't really have total free will, he doesn't
have total free will, he just, I am important, and they're telling him how he needs to die,
how he should have been killed, how he should never been born.
He's like, you're my friends, you're my friends, no, they're not your friends, they're cowardly
wolves that I swear, I swear we're gonna get these people because they want all of us.
You need to know that, total, God please, let's continue going by the club.
I had not expected that.
Is there another group of Netherlands that approached them out?
Pack it up, guys, 30 seconds, I wanna play that part, but they go, you're a very important
person, and he's like feeling good, they're telling you're a sack of crap, you're not
normal, you're not a human, you're nobody, we got a whole show here about aborting everyone
of you, we wanna kill you.
But they don't do it that way, it's all like Stuart, everybody else, and Colbert, it's
all cute and funny, and all the wannabes watch, all the followers, all the betas watch and
think, I get ahead being a psychopath, I get ahead being a piece of crap.
Go ahead and play the clip.
So you cost society 48,000 euros, wow, that's a considerable amount, but it's high compared
to normal persons, and you're not normal, well you could calculate that by taking the
big number to 90 billion, and divide that amount with the number of citizens that owns, and
that approximately 17 million, you will give you approximately about 5,000 euros per person
a year.
So you could say that he is almost 10 times as expensive as others.
Those expenses are indeed 10 times higher.
Are you a viable man?
I'm not expecting that, I'm somebody, they're like literally talking about killing him right
there.
I'll be back and take your calls, and Paul Watson will take over.
God will deliver vengeance to those people.
Stop with the little children, we'll be back.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind, super blue fluoride free products.
InfoWarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil, or try our bubble gum flavor.
Prepare this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and
super charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is floated with a good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new super charged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without
the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and super charge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones, the cure to fake news coming to you live from Austin, Texas.
If that didn't tear your guts out, you got to see the full video that made fun of that
down syndrome man on national television.
I don't like to shoot my mouth off about kicking people's asses, but let me tell you something.
Watch that video again.
That's why I can't watch that kind of stuff.
We have to watch it.
I watch those slimy sacks of crap trying to reintroduce eugenics in front of everybody.
Hey, you know what Hitler did?
He ended up getting 60, 70 million innocent people killed.
By the way, I'm upset about the millions of Jews that Hitler killed, but why is the media
only going to talk about that?
Hitler killed tens of millions of people including 22 million Germans, 20 million Russians, hundreds
of thousands of Americans, a million Poles, it's not funny.
I'll tell you man, I'm done.
Let me tell you, people push eugenics, I'm coming after them.
And let me tell you, it's not some hero mode.
They're going after all of us.
They say, somebody's going to stand up for the children and for the Down syndrome folks
and everybody else.
And I'm telling you right now, I don't ever talk like this, but they're coming up with
their crap out in the open.
People start promoting stuff like this and they run hospitals and they run systems.
They're running death sentences, folks.
Their argument is that preemies, deserve the doc as their preemies, that's why they give
them vaccines and know it's killing them.
They are killing kids and I'm done playing games.
So, Tristan, Bohem, Jeff, I got to get to everybody because Paul's about to take over
to a great job.
Bohem in North Carolina, you're on the air.
Go ahead.
Hey, Alex, how's it going?
It spoke me actually with the neighborhood podcast.
How are you?
I'm good.
Go ahead.
Okay.
Well, I just wanted to say we are living through Atlas shrugged right now on the internet.
People are flocking from the old news sources and moving towards new media.
And I think it's absolutely incredible.
It's a huge testament to you and your persistence.
And I just can't thank you enough, but have you noticed that the new media is really just
taking over and nobody trusts the old media anymore?
Yeah, no one trusts the mainstream media, but they're trying to force you to be able
to find the independent media.
That's why it's key to spread independent media and do your own media, by the way.
Sure.
And with this net neutrality passing all the people that are upset about it, or not passing,
getting repealed, all the people that are upset about it are the ones that are against
the new media.
So you guys must be thrilled.
I hope you're cracking champagne.
No, I hear you again.
It doesn't mean there's not a fight for the future of the web.
Obama's net neutrality bill was just called that.
It isn't net neutrality.
And they're trying to bring in all this censorship now.
And the telecoms are fighting with Google over control of the web.
We got to fight both groups, but this was a big victory.
I appreciate your call.
Great points.
Let's go ahead and talk to Tristan in Henderson, Texas.
Thank you for being a real trooper and holding Tristan.
You're on the air worldwide.
Hey, Alex.
Thanks for having me, man.
Thank you.
I like how you were getting into all of the being about God and the truth and, you know,
taking care of our kids.
And I don't, it blows my mind that they're calling him a downer.
They're the downers.
And I'm going to be honest with you.
If I was in that room, I mean, I'd break those guys' nose.
I mean, I'm sorry.
They're like making fun of this guy, making, he thinks of their friend, you're my friend.
And they're like, want to kill it.
They're saying he's crap.
And they're liberals.
It's okay because they're liberals.
It hurts me, man, because I have a cousin, a twin cousin, and she has Down syndrome.
And if, if I ever seen anybody treat her bad, I would, I would probably kill them.
It would just, it would, it hurts, man.
Because everybody knows people that say, let's kill the week.
They're going to kill everybody next.
They're just trying to get us to be killers.
Yeah.
I don't want to kill weak people.
I want to kill parasite thugs.
That's who I want to kill.
Right.
And I'm ready.
They're pushing, they're pushing the civil war.
I'll be honest.
I'm ready.
I'm done with these people.
They want, they want, they want death.
They want blood.
If you want blood, you got it.
Blood on the streets, blood on the stage, right on your feet.
You got it.
I want innocence and I want justice, but I'm sick of their globalist Islam promoting
all their anti-family crap.
They're putting down little people that, they're just bullies.
Watch those men on TV bullying that guy, making fun of him, and it's all funny, trying to
seduce the Dutch and to make passing a lot of, abort all the down syndrome folks.
It's sick.
Paul Watson's coming up.
Stay with us.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so
you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Resistance to Tyrants is obedience to God, it's Alex Jones.
You can run on for a long time, run on for a long time, run on for a long time, sooner
or later, gotta cut you down, sooner or later, gotta cut you down.
Go tell that long tongue liar, go and tell that midnight writer, tell the rambler, the
gambler, the back fighter, tell him it's God's gonna cut him down, tell him it's God's gonna
cut him down.
Alright, Paul Watson is about to take over, and he's got a lot to cover.
Well, my goodness gracious, let me tell you that my head's been wet.
I want to go to your calls, but Paul's here, he's got to take over, so everybody that's
holding, let's get their name and number, a free t-shirt of their choice from InfoWarsStore.com.
And hand that over to the crew, over there, down the road a few miles away at the shipping
department, and we will get that out to everybody.
Paul Watson, I know you've always got big breaking news, what would you like to get
into first year, give people a preview of what's coming up, there's so much, Paul Joseph
Watson.
Well, Alex, we're gonna talk about the diversity barriers, which of course we've seen in Germany,
Sweden and in the UK after the massive terror attacks over the past year using trucks as
weapons, turns out Alex, they don't actually work, a big German TV show proved that with
a quite in-depth study, and we're gonna play clips from that, proving that in fact they
make the attack worse, they can turn these concrete ball odds into projectiles that
hit victims.
So they had to put up bears everywhere in public squares because the Muslims keep running
people over with cars, I think the duty of all Europeans would be to assemble yourselves
in squares so the Muslims can run you over.
Yeah, I mean in the video, they become like a scoop, they become like a scoop, we're showing
it for radio listeners, InfoWars.com, more slash show, it becomes like a giant battering
ran scoop to kill even more people, I think that's a great plan of the EU, sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, the truck doesn't even stop, it carried on for 50 meters after that and it wasn't
even traveling that quick in these clips, so it makes the attack worse.
The experts in the clip actually admit that it's just for psychological reasons to reassure
the public, it actually has no safety aspects whatsoever, you know, if you've got walls
beyond that, then maybe that's another form of defense, but these barriers alone are
absolutely.
The defense says don't bring them in to begin with when they're unvetted, but as you know,
they're putting public gatherings in pins for cuddling with police, they're putting everybody
in pins to be protected from the Muslims when they're really being prepared so any future
gatherings in any public place are already hemmed in for police control.
Paul Watson takeover, I'm going to stop interrupting, InfoWars.com, more slash show, everybody spread
those links, free shipping, store-wide, huge deals, 50% off on a bunch of our best-selling
items and it is you, the people that buy the products that fund the operation, Merry Christmas,
we salute you all Monday.
We have a 34-hour broadcast that kicks off at 8 a.m., the Christmas holiday extravaganza,
or what was the exact term I came up with, I forget, the point is it's very, very exciting,
we're going to do that, we have a bunch of special guests that are going to be joining
us, it's the Christmas spectacular extravaganza, so that's coming up Monday with the kickoff,
Paul, I'm drafting you, you must join us for at least an hour, the 34-hour, at least
we'll be on Tuesday, of that transmission, so I'm going to be back this Sunday at 4-6
p.m., war room comes up in about 15 minutes at infowars.com, forward slash show with Owen
Schroder and others in the course of stations across the country, back to Paul, Joseph Watson.
So start over on the diversity barriers.
Yeah, the article up on infowars.com is study shows, diversity barriers are useless at stopping
terror attacks, this went up yesterday, this video has only got about 19,000 views, it
should have way more than that, a German TV show proved that the so-called diversity barriers
being set up in cities around Europe to stop terror attacks by jihadists using trucks as
weapons are completely useless, and this video proves it, they set out, they got the experts,
they got the truck experts, the concrete ballard experts, the people who are actually setting
this up, they ran trucks up against these ballards, two different tests, the first test
they had I think is about three, we're playing the video, you can see it here now, they had
about two or three ballard set up, the impact pushed the ballards aside, in fact they projectile
out a little bit, the truck didn't even stop, it went straight on through, through the next
barrier, and in fact in the clip the experts said it would have traveled another 50 meters
at least, and this is at 50 kilometers per hour speed, so it's not even going that quickly,
this is the first test, then the second test, if we can go to the second clip, they put
the barriers, the concrete blocks closer together, there were more of them, they put them closer
together, there you see it, that's the second test, and there you see it knocks one straight
off like a projectile, which would kill more people than if it was just a truck on its
own barreling straight on through, now bear in mind these ballards, these barriers have
been put in place to stop this very kind of attack, after we saw it in Nice, after we
saw it in Stockholm, after we saw it in Barcelona, so Paul these are just as useful, these are
just as useful as the bracelets everybody wears saying don't rape me, but now they
just say I'm diverse, so it's okay, and they tell women don't wear short skirts, isn't
that the answer, I mean just wear the bracelets, yeah the tolerance bracelets will prevent
the rapist, like in, I think it was Finland they said just use the force against the potential
rapist and they will back off, like there's some kind of invisible force field which will
make the rapist back off, absolutely insane, but they even had the experts on in this study
by the German TV show who said in their own words that the concrete barriers aren't for
security reasons, they're not going to work, they're a quote placebo effect and could pose
an even bigger danger than just the truck, because people are scared to go outside because
the Muslims keep killing everybody, so we just put up these barriers so they can have
a big concrete thing to ram you with, exactly and then they say oh we're not going to let
Donald Trump into London because he's for building walls and barriers, while we literally
have to build walls and barriers on our bridges outside our Christmas markets to protect ourselves
from the great cultural enrichment that is multicultural. So let me say this, that's a great point,
Trump is right, Europe is now building walls admitting Trump's right, that's incredible.
It's incredibly racist that Europe is building walls to keep out, people who just want to
culturally enrich is Alex, I mean that's what it comes down to and that's the other
headline I want to go on to now, I mean you can go on to that study with the German truck
because it's not got any attention, the point about it is they talked to the German police,
German authorities in different major German cities immediately after this and said look
we've proved these barriers don't work, they're all over Germany right now in other cities,
you know they've got thanks, Merkel tattooed on them in some places, they're decorating
them with Christmas attire. They're like a new Berlin wall. Yeah, to make them look
less ugly, in fact I think it was Jack Pysovic put out a video today in one city, I forget
which one but they had them dressed up like Christmas presents, big cardboard containers
like Christmas presents, you look over the top and it's a concrete ballard, that's all
well and good but they don't work, they called the police in all these major cities in Germany,
the authorities and said look these don't work, we've proven it, do you want to see
our information, no, no, no, no, no, they're not interested, only Dresden police showed
an interest out of all of them that they asked, nobody else cares because again it's
complete BS, it's to reassure the public, it doesn't actually work, God forbid the
ISIS will see this video, they probably shouldn't have even put it out because these authorities
are just ignoring the truth about the fact that this does not stop truck terror attacks,
the ballards are completely useless and this information needs to get out because like
it's got 20,000 views on YouTube, nobody even cares about this, this is a real story.
It's shocking footage as the Germans admit that Trump is riding again building walls
but their walls don't work, back to Paul Joseph Watson.
Exactly Alex and again it ties into this story out of the metro, Donald Trump is banned from
Greenwich during his state visit is the headline, Donald Trump has been barred from entering
Greenwich which is an area in London, East London, but if he sexually grabbed tens of
thousands of girls and jihadied and blew up children's events then he would be accepted.
Well that's the point Alex, we've let into the, not just London but the UK, over 400
ISIS fighters over the past year alone, now that's more ISIS fighters than any other European
country, we let them straight back in, now we're gonna give them welfare, we're gonna
give them housing, we're gonna take good care of them, if Donald Trump had just claimed
that he was an ISIS fighter coming back in from Syria, maybe they would have rolled out
the red carpet.
There's your headline, Donald Trump should have announced himself as an ISIS fighter,
he'd have a red carpet all over England.
Exactly but he didn't do that, so go ahead.
Paul you really are a genius, alright Paul's gonna burrow into this and so much more and
I'm gonna be a good boy, I'm gonna leave everyone now, with Paul Joseph Watson and all of you,
this is the InfoWar, have you spread the link today, InfoWars.com, PresentWarta.com and NewsWars.com.
Want revenge on the common house fly?
Well after 10,000 years someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no
batteries required, so much fun, you'll forget you have a wife and kids.
$99.95 and free economy shipping, use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off your purchase
at bugassault.com.
Makes the perfect stocking stuffer, get your bug assault today.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon, I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon,
savory and delicious, I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome, no refrigeration needed
with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology, bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready
to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve, life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10
year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size, for incredibly delicious
water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for
some unique holiday gift ideas.
That's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products for the archer, hunter or bow
fishing enthusiast in your family.
Now through January, use the promo code holiday to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada.
And from all of us at Slingbow Industries, have a safe, joyous and peaceful holiday season.
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza brought to you by Info Wars and
it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas.
You know, Christmas is about Christmas and to celebrate this, we've got the biggest sales
in the history of Info Wars and InfoWarsTour.com, 50 to 67% off all our bestselling items and
free shipping.
A lot of these items, high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel, water filtration,
you name it, is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus
Christ and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the re-assurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at InfoWars.com
forward slash show and InfoWarsTour.com.
Again, it is the Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza.
I want to plow into all of this, that I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just
encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems
or books or videos or other material from InfoWarsTour.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at InfoWarsTour.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, InfoWarsLife.com or AAA-253-3139 and your purchase of the products stands
with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists and
their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know we know who they
are and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
It is the anniversary of the death of Christopher Hitchens, going to play a clip coming up from
what he said about Islamophobia, given that that's the subject we're really talking about
right now.
Let's go back to that headline we had up before, Donald Trump is banned from Greenwich
during his state visit.
Now Greenwich is an area in East London and the article reads, Donald Trump has been barred
from entering Greenwich if his state visit goes ahead next year.
The royal borough of Greenwich said the US president would not be welcome and called
for his visit to be dropped.
Now understand this is just a gaggle of councillors, they have no actual power over anything.
This is just an exercise in baseless virtue signaling.
Council has expressed alarm at the decision of President Trump to retweet Islamophobic
propaganda and sadness that the president's biggest attitude towards women and ethnic
minorities.
So basically they just had a big hissy fit at a meeting, they've got no power whatsoever.
But this is what they said after the meeting, quote, this diversity strengthens our borough,
they're talking about Islam and multiculturalism, it enriches our lives on a daily basis and
it reminds us all that we have so much more in common than that that divides us.
They said it in that tone of voice as well, there's one of the most multicultural London
boroughs.
We are a place that has worked tirelessly to break down barriers.
We have no time for people who want to build walls when we have done so much to break them
down.
Right, so if you've got no time for people who want to build walls, why are walls being
built on bridges outside Christmas markets in London?
Okay, if walls and barriers are racist, why do I see walls and barriers popping up all
over London if we're embracing the diversity?
Sounds pretty racist to me.
Donald Trump is more unwelcome than ISIS fighters, this is the point, more than 400 ISIS fighters
have come back to Britain, that's the headline out of the Express, hundreds of British jihadists
who fought for the Islamic State, ISIS, have already returned to the UK, shocking new research
hasn't covered.
And this was back in October, more will have come back since, at least 425 members of the
terrorist group are believed to have fled back to Britain from the ruins of itself-declared
Caliphate in Syria and Iraq.
Now this is more than any other European country, ISIS fighters that have come back into the
UK, they're now even talking about giving them welfare, housing and benefits to reintegrate
them into society.
So not solitary confinement in prison or merely just turning them away at the border, or in
one case there's one, I think it was a Tory MP suggested just killing them, no, get them
back in, give them money, give them positions that will make them keep them happy, roll
out the red carpet, they can come back, they're welcome.
Donald Trump, no frigging way, he's not coming back, he's not coming into the royal horror
of Greenwich, because we're all for diversity, we're against walls and barriers unless we're
erecting them in London to stop the diversity that's proven so beneficial to London, especially
this year with what, three terror attacks, at least attempted, one of them wasn't able
to be carried through, but we had Westminster, we had the London Bridge attack, we also had
an attack on the Underground back in September, which thankfully was unsuccessful, but of
course we also had the devastating attack on the Manchester Arena back in May, so much
cultural enrichment, so much diversity, we're loving it so much, more of that less of Donald
Trump, he's not allowed.
Let's go to this Christopher Hitchens clip, this is the anniversary he died back in 2011
on this day, this is what Christopher Hitchens by no means a Tommy Robinson, by no means
a Katie Hopkins, by no means a Nigel Farage, he was a leftist, he was a Marxist at certain
times in his life, this is what Christopher Hitchens had to say about Islam and Islamophobia,
here's the clip.
This is very urgent business, ladies and gentlemen, I beseech you, resist it while you still can
and before the right to complain is taken away from you, which will be the next thing, you
will be told you can't complain because you're Islamophobic, the term is already being introduced
into the culture as if it was an accusation of race hatred, for example, or bigotry, whereas
it's only the objection to the preachings of a very extreme and absolutist religion.
Watch out for these symptoms, they are not the symptoms of surrender, very often ecumenically
offered to you by men of God in other robes, Christian and Jewish and smarmy ecumenical,
these are the ones who will hold open the gates for the barbarians, the barbarians never
take a city until someone holds the gates open for them and it's your own preachers
who will do it for you and your own multicultural authorities who will do it for you, resist
it while you can and if you wonder what will happen if you don't, look and see how a cricket
team in Middlesex in England had to change its name by force last week because it was
called and had been for years the Middlesex Crusaders, look and see how stories about
little pigs can't be taught to children in English schools anymore, less defense be taken
by the religion of peace, resist it while you can.
That is Christopher Hitchens who of course died on this day in 2011, he would have never
have gone along with today's thought policing on Islam and he's terribly missed their warning
about how they will go against, they will go after people's free speech as soon as Islam
gets a wedge in society, gets a base, a position of power, that's exactly what's happened.
Over in Sweden where they have to put cameras into these migrant ghetto areas to catch the
screams of women as they're being raped because they don't have actual police stations there
anymore, they would get attacked and burned to the ground.
Now we have this up on infowars.com headline, Sweden raises retirement age to cope with
immigration.
They're going to lower your quality of life to pay for the hordes that are rushing into
the country in the name of diversity.
The retirement age for Sweden's pension funds will eventually rise to 69 due to the Muslim
immigration boon in the country.
In short, the country is spending so much money on migrant welfare that it can no longer
properly fund the pensions for native retirees.
Swedish media which typically downplays immigration pitfalls actually admitted the rise in the
retirement age would result in a major deterioration of quality of life for Swedes, as all mass
immigration does.
Now Sweden has a situation now 58% of welfare payments in Sweden go to immigrants, 58% immigrants
make up 16% of the population, those stats are out of the global mail.
So again, we're sold this narrative, we were sold it with Germany when they invited in
what was it, nearly 2 million migrants over the past two years, that they needed for labor,
that we need the workers, we need the fresh blood, absolute BS.
They go on welfare in the majority of cases in Sweden and Germany, huge numbers of these
migrants go on welfare, they're a drain on the system.
It's got nothing to do with needing new labor.
Of course, that drives wages down as well for the local native population too.
So it drives down quality of life, wages and now Sweden's retirement age is going to go
up to 69 to pay for all this with 58% of their welfare payments going to immigrants.
Is it any surprise that the Sweden Democrats are now seen as a major force in Swedish politics
and are going to have a big impact on their next election, potentially even winning it?
Another headline here, Czech Republic, 80% don't want migrants and reject EU plans according
to an opinion poll, four-fifths of Czechs say they do not accept the EU's quotas for
housing migrants in the Czech Republic.
So again, you have the EU, the mafia organization trying to bully, intimidate all these European
countries, Eastern European countries into paying that bill into accepting migrants basically
by force, they've said no, the backlash is centred in those countries, we'll be by it.
This is the fourth hour of the Alex Jones Show Live, infowars.com.
The world's softest pajamas are lighter than a cloud, softer than a bunny, like cashmere
only better.
She'll love the way the world's softest pajamas feel and you'll love the way they look.
More than a gift, they're a feeling, an invitation to relax a little longer.
The world's softest pajamas are available only at pajamagram.com.
Visit today and give her a gift that keeps on giving to both of you.
Plus, you don't even have to wrap because every pajamagram includes free gift packaging
and Christmas delivery is guaranteed.
So visit pajamagram.com or call 1-800-GIVE-PJs.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at infowarstore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to infowarstore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at infowarslife.com,
this is a sure win, 10% off on auto ship, win, win, win at infowarslife.com, free shipping
on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and
overall brain fog.
Survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work together to support the systems in your
body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Broadcasting live from the UN stronghold Austin, Texas.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show and now your host Paul Joseph Watson.
It's the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show on this Friday edition before I get back
into the news and we're going to talk about potential sexual assault abuse allegations
against Trump.
That's been a subject we've been hot on this week.
I want to direct you to infowarsstore.com because we have the newest supplement in the
info wars lifeline which is alpha power.
I'm already getting requests from people in the UK to get their hands on this from me
because they're really excited about it.
Introductory price is 50% off.
This is the brand new vitality formula developed to help boost your performance and energy
levels.
With a powerful set of ingredients we sought to make the perfect formula for boosting your
performance and energy levels daily.
These are all natural and healthy ingredients which include niacin, zinc, numerous others.
Now you only really notice these if you don't get them.
I've been ill this week, very ill earlier in the week.
You really notice when you're lacking these essential vitamins and nutrients and when
you get them back again because your body is starved of them.
Obviously if you have a generally good diet you don't need to overload but once you do
get this boost which these kind of products produce, it is felt immeasurably.
We've also got the organic macarote concentrate in there, horny goatweed, leaf and stem.
A bunch of different ingredients, alpha power even works synergistically with super male
vitality with that combo to help you become a true alpha male and take charge of your
energy to defy age.
So this is our super alpha male combo pack.
You get 50% off each when you buy them together.
Don't fall short on energy in the fight against age and globalist tyranny.
Show the world that true alpha male looks like today with alpha power from Infowars
Life at InfowarsStore.com that is our latest brand new powerful product, alpha power, 50%
off right now at InfowarsLife.com.
We've also got massive Christmas savings across the board to make a perfect Christmas for
your friends and family.
We're bringing back our most popular sales of the year to help you save big, brain force.
That's the one that really triggers them if you get that especially when I advertise it.
The bullet in our InfowarsLife selects storeable foods, viable foods are back on sale.
Make sure you get them today so you can have them before Christmas again.
Why bother buying people tatty Christmas gifts that they don't want, they don't appreciate,
they either go in the bin the next day or they re-gift them, buy them something that
they can actually use, something that will actually improve their day to day life.
We have our multivitamin formula, vitamin mineral fusion, which is also still on sale
for a massive 50% off making the perfect stocking stuffer for a truly merry Christmas.
The super blue fluoride free products have been dropped 50% off the entire line to help
you experience a fluoride free lifestyle and again that's another conversation starter
if you buy somebody that at Christmas, you can get into why it would be.
Not a great idea to fill your body with fluoride, something which actually reduces IQ studies
have shown really is toxic with the cumulative effect that it builds up in your body.
So why not get people the super blue fluoride free products as a gift 50% off right now
at InfowarsStore.com where we've also got knockout, survival shield, super male vitality,
all three of those at 50% off, DNA force, 33% off, alpha power as I said earlier, 50%
off and also Prostagard for 50% off at InfowarsStore.com, massive, massive discounts take advantage
of it today, InfowarsStore.com.
Let's talk about the Trump sexual assault accusations again because we've been hot on
this all week.
Now we have this headline up on Infowars.com, anti-Trump lawyer sought payments for women
to accuse Trump of sexual harassment, the revelation that well-known anti-Trump women's
rights lawyer attempted to secure incentive money for women to claim Donald Trump sexually
harassed them in the week leading up to the presidential election serves as a red flag
for how this exact scenario is likely to play out again in the near future.
Those are my words and the article, the original article that this refers to is out of the
hill, which is really viral right now, quote out of the hill article, California lawyer
Lisa Bloom.
Do you remember this is the woman, the big women's rights lawyer who immediately decided
to take on and defend Harvey Weinstein, one of the biggest molesters on the frigging planet
of women.
She of course backed out on that later on when it became embarrassing that she picked it
up in the first place, Lisa Bloom.
Now you read through this article, she was absolutely desperate to entice any women to
drop dirt on Donald Trump in the weeks before the election, what's interesting about it
is that the money she tried to collect to offer these women to come forward to go public
was not backed by Clinton super PACs because they probably thought in the final weeks before
the election, they're probably overconfident given all those polls that Hillary would win.
But she managed to scrape together an offer from all these different donors and sources
which remain very mysterious for $750,000 offering a woman to come forward to go public
and say that Donald Trump sexually harassed her.
Now, because we had a number of other women that did that before the election, but she
was trying to get even more to come forward with even more damning revelations about Trump's
predatory behavior.
Now how predatory was his behavior in this case, well, this is what the article boils
down to in my view, one of the most interesting aspects of the piece is how the woman who
eventually declined as much as $750,000 to go public against Trump admitted that when
this deposed sexual abuse incident happened, when she rebuffed Trump's advances, he immediately
backed off.
So Trump came on to her, she immediately said she wasn't interested, he immediately backed
off.
If Trump's his big predator, this abuser, this sexual harasser of women, would he behave
like that?
It doesn't really jive with Harvey Weinstein style behavior, does it?
She was actually a Trump supporter and she still supported him even after this so-called
sexual harassment incident.
This is a quote from the article she told the Hill, quote, she held no resentment about
the early 90s advance because Trump stopped it as soon as she asked him, what a bombshell.
Trump comes on to the woman, the woman says she's not interested, Trump backs off.
Absolute scandal.
Now she also said, and this came out later, she was disgusted, the woman that was offered
the $750,000 to come out against Trump publicly, he was disgusted to learn that Bloom had agreed
to defend serial sex molester Harvey Weinstein back in October.
So again, Bloom hasn't got a leg to stand on total hypocrite.
She wanted to defend Weinstein for the money despite the fact that he's the biggest molester
on the planet or at least in America.
So this is something we've discussed.
I discussed it in my video yesterday, they're going to try and ensnare Trump, they've failed
with the whole Russian collusion investigation, it's fallen flat on its face for now.
So what cards do they have left?
They're going to try and take all this anger, all this vitriol, all this rage surrounding
the hashtag me too scandal and redirect it onto Donald Trump.
I actually think if they get enough weight of accusers against Trump, women coming out
and claiming that he sexually abused them, that he's going to step down, that he's going
to resign.
Of course, that's never going to happen, but they can create this cloud around him to derail
his momentum policy wise and going into the 2018 midterms.
Now, of course, we have the audio tape from Bill O'Reilly, which Alex played earlier in
the week where he's talked about a $200,000 offer for a woman to come forward with a fake
allegation, a fake sex assault allegation against Donald Trump.
Now that looks like it's a different scenario, a different woman, but according to O'Reilly,
that's coming down the pipeline in January.
So it looks like they're going to go all out, full guns blazing in January with these sexual
allegations against Trump, whether they're true or not.
I mean, we had the accusers on the Today Show earlier this week, who had already been out
in 2016.
In one case, her testimony of what happened had already been contradicted by someone who
was on the plane who said that Trump did not grope her, didn't do anything.
They came out, they are on the Today Show, that was their big reveal, was their big scandal
and what new information did they have to bring to the table?
Donald Trump asked for somebody's phone number, oh my God, and she gave it to him.
Donald Trump called someone a rude word, I mean, that is the level.
In this case, he backed off as soon as she said she wasn't interested.
Is Donald Trump keen on women, yes, sexual abuser, molester of women?
No evidence whatsoever to back it up, but they're going to try and use it against him
anyway.
We'll be back in the next segment of the Alex Jones Show Live, Infowars.com, go away.
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza brought to you by Infowars and
it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas.
You know, Christmas is about Christmas and to celebrate this, we've got the biggest sales
in the history of Infowars and InfowarsTour.com, 50 to 67% off all our bestselling items and
free shipping.
A lot of these items, high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel, water filtration,
you name it, is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus
Christ and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at infowars.com
forward slash show and infowarstour.com.
Again, it is the Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air.
Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of Infowars and
I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic
and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the Infowars.
It might seem like a simple thing, but they're particularly these slogan t-shirts that you
guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you.
My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me and
it's a big Daeglo snake, the Adson snake, and then it's got the American flag, infowars.com
on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise
free speech.
And the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol
of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at infowars.com.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels, optimum
levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need
every day, up, up, up, optimum levels, B vitamins we need everyday.
Secret 12 combines two bio active forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption, up, up,
up, up, optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, dust, and hunger.
Secret 12, up, up, up, optimal absorption B vitamins help the body convert food into energy
by supporting your intercellular processes.
V-vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning
of the brain and nervous system, optimum levels.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin V12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body
function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back
with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back
against the globalist's war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced
from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated
for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed
to activate your body's natural processes
instead of using synthetic chemicals.
Infowarslife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients
is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself
to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
News, analysis, reports.
It's the Alex Jones Show.
And now your host Paul Joseph Watson.
Let's talk about Brexit because, of course,
yesterday we had a vote in Parliament
where they basically said, oh, by the way,
your vote last year, that whole referendum thing, yeah.
Absolutely, it means absolutely nothing, basically.
This is the point I've made over and over again.
The last 18 months has been one long process
of the political class and the left
trying to sabotage and annul two democratic votes,
two massive democratic votes in the history of politics,
Brexit and Trump.
18 months after the Brexit vote and we're still in this Maya.
They had a vote saying, oh, basically, whatever crappy deal
Theresa the appeaser may get, we can then just vote it down.
And your initial vote meant nothing whatsoever.
Absolute concentrated tyranny.
We voted to leave the European Union.
We got a little thing, check this box
if you want to leave the European Union.
Didn't say check this box if you want to leave,
then turn to page two for the debate on the single market.
Should we leave that or not?
No, it was to leave or not leave.
We left, we voted to leave.
That's it.
Carry it through, carry through the sovereign will
of the people.
They're not doing that.
They're trying to derail it at every single point.
They're trying to sabotage it.
The elitists admit people like Lord Adonis and Nick
Clegg that the agenda is to derail Brexit completely.
It's not to get a different deal or maybe not
be in the single market.
No, they want to kill it completely.
In fact, we got a clip on this from Question Time.
Somebody from the north of England, by the way,
speaking absolute complete sense on Brexit.
Let's go ahead and play that clip.
Yes, we're constantly being told by these elite politicians.
And obviously, she's done a really treacherous act
last night against the Conservative Party.
But the lady on the other side is in a party
that should be defending the working class communities
that this town is.
And their party is tending towards the single market
now, which is unrestricted migration.
And that is what this town, overall,
voted leave to stop because it damaged the working class
because she's worse than her in effect.
And their party is doing more damage to these communities.
If we're going to hear that Kia Stammer keep
on about their single markets on its way back,
that's what we wouldn't have in these working class
traditional communities.
And you're stabbing us in the back.
You're going to carry on what happened last night
with those treacherous rebels and bring that down upon us.
And when he says about parliamentary sovereignty,
the people are the sovereign to put the representatives
in a parliament.
And we made our decision.
We know why we made it.
I know you say we're thick up north.
But I remember voting on my ballot paper.
And it said, it said, leave or remain.
And it didn't say when I put my box in leave,
now turn to question two.
Do you want the soft Brexit?
Or do you want the hard Brexit?
So again, that was last night on Question Time.
And again, the Labour Party, the so-called leftist party
in Britain, they're supposed to represent the working class.
The impact of mass immigration has
harmed working class towns in the north of England
more than anywhere else.
And again, they've completely betrayed their voter base.
Look at this headline.
Transition period means EU membership
to effectively continue until at least 2021.
New guidelines from the European Union
outline how they intend for the transition period
sets to go on until at least 2021
to see the UK basically remain a member of the European Union
in all but name.
So they drag it on until 2021.
Then they say, oh, maybe this deal's not working out.
Maybe we need to drag it on a little bit more
and a little bit more and a little bit more.
Let's just give up on it.
Let's just forget about it.
That's what they want to do.
They openly say it.
People like Nick Clegg, lauded honest,
the goal is to derail, to kill Brexit altogether.
Here's another headline out of Sky News.
EU wants Brexit deal by 2019 will be dramatically difficult
as talks move to next phase.
So again, they basically had Theresa May over the calls
for months and months.
She got absolutely nothing.
She conceded on everything to them.
And now they're saying the second phase of it
will be even worse than that.
So again, they don't want a deal.
They want to wreck this country to teach everyone else
in Europe a lesson.
Don't mess with us because it's a mafia organization.
We need to throw this deal out the window.
Just leave now because they're never
going to let us leave on some crappy deal.
And even if we get it, these rebels, actually traitors
in parliament, are just going to vote it down anyway.
This is, again, the sabotage of the democratic will
of the British people.
That's what the last 18 months has been about.
And I'm sick of talking about it.
I'm sick of talking about whether Trump's
the legitimate president of the United States,
because he may have colluded with Russia with no evidence
whatsoever.
This is the advantage that they have.
They never get bored of repeating the same crap over
and over again, even as we get bored of it.
But we keep having to fight the same fight with Brexit
and with Trump over and over again, just simply
to ensure that our democratic will is noticed.
I mean, what is the point?
I made a video about this last night.
What's the point in having national referendums,
national elections, if the elite is just
going to ignore the vote if they don't like the result?
What's the point?
We might as well just admit that we don't live in free countries
anymore.
We're at that stage now.
The frustration is building.
If they carry this on much longer,
people are going to be out on the streets.
Maybe they won't.
Maybe they don't care enough to be out on the streets.
Maybe the right isn't organized enough
to be out on the streets.
We will see.
But again, we will at least know if we
live in a democratic country or not.
The way it's going right now doesn't really look like it.
Absolutely incredible.
We have an article up on infowars.com right now.
Headline, Facebook admits social media
harmful to mental health.
I also saw this out of CMBC.
Facebook just admitted that using Facebook
can be bad for you.
Facebook's director of research, David Ginsburg,
and research scientist, Amora Burke,
said a post which addressed the questions about Facebook
has on our moods revealed some compelling information.
Basically, they said that if you read Facebook for 10 minutes,
that is the home page, the scrolling news feed of Facebook,
you're in a worse mood at the end of the day
than students who are assigned to post or talk to friends
on Facebook.
A study from UC San Diego and Yale
found that people who clicked on about four times as many links
as the average person or who liked twice as many posts
reported worse mental health than average in a survey.
In other words, if you're using Facebook
to mindlessly browse through your feed or click post,
you may end up in a foul mood after.
But then they found that you were in a better mood
if you got those dopamine hits from people
liking your posts.
In other words, using Facebook to interact with people
as opposed to just browsing seemed
to have a positive effect on people.
So again, it's what the Facebook executive said earlier
in the week.
You get those temporary dopamine hits
from people liking your pictures, liking your posts.
But if then you go and do that, you scroll through your news
feed, you end up more depressed unless you go back
and get the dopamine hit of the likes on your posts and pictures.
So that's how they get you hooked.
This is why it is tearing apart the social fabric
of how society works.
I have no idea why anyone would want
to be on social media if they didn't have to be.
Like unless you're promoting something,
unless it's some kind of creative enterprise
that you want to draw attention to,
unless you're in the news business,
why on earth would you be on there in the first place
if not just to communicate with your immediate family?
I mean, why the hell would you be on there
if you didn't need to be on there,
if it's making you depressed, if it's a colossal waste of time?
Absolutely insane.
And those studies back that up.
RT reports, snowflake students get university
to apologize for calling Snow White.
That's right.
Calling Snow White is now racist.
This is absolutely incorrect.
This is not the onion.
This is a serious story.
University College London was forced
to apologize after a dreaming of a white campus tweet.
That was what they said, dreaming of a white campus
was deemed racist by snowflake students.
The tweet had been intended to let students know
the campus was still open as some parts of Britain
remain covered by 13 inches of snow.
The tweet said, dreaming of a white campus,
our campuses will be open.
They got backlash.
Now, of course, it wasn't any kind of massive.
It was probably one person.
They probably got one.
And in fact, in this article, they only quote one person
who replied to the tweet and said,
you know who else dreamt of white campus?
Hitler, that's who.
Disgusting.
So because they got this one tweet in response,
saying it was racist to say Snow is white,
they retracted and apologized.
Again, this is the mass mental illness gripping the UK.
If one person is offended by somebody saying,
Snow is white, they have to apologize.
They have to walk it back.
Now, what was even more hilarious was the backlash
to the backlash.
Of course, the backlash to the backlash was people saying,
what in the hell are you doing?
Apologizing to someone who's offended
because you said Snow was white.
But again, it was already done.
And that was the end of the story
because one person got offended.
Again, they were absolutely petrified
as being portrayed as racist.
They walked it back.
They apologized.
Boston Professor proclaims Jingle Bell's a racist song.
We're not going to get into the details of that.
But again, it's the same thing.
These snowflakes getting triggered.
Stop apologizing for absolutely everything.
Think about it.
Take a deep breath for 10 seconds
and realize you don't have to cater
to these permanently offended morons.
That's the end of the show.
War Room coming up right now.
M4Wars.com, stay right there.
M4Wars.com, stay right there.
Take action now before we sell out.
Alex Jones here with an extremely exciting announcement
that will be a gift to yourself
and a gift to the Info War
to fight the globalist and live in a free society.
Several years ago, I set out with top formulators in the US
to create the strongest, most concentrated,
over-the-top stamina, libido, workout, brain formula
that is safe.
I know from using this myself the last few months
and from seeing my friends and family use it
that this new product is going to end up being
the number one best-selling product at infowarslife.com
because it works so well.
This is a gift you want to give yourself.
And then rest assured, you're fighting the Info War
so it's a total absolute sure win, no lose equation.
Try Alpha Power.
Exclusively available at infowarslife.com for yourself.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's non-GMO.
It's for your brain.
It's for sports. It's for activities.
And it's made in the USA.
Get your Alpha Power today at infowarslife.com.
Everybody needs to try Alpha Power today.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
