Ladies and gentlemen, I was just recently asked by some family if they thought it would be
a good idea to take the Amtrak train down from Washington down Highway 1, one of the
most scenic routes in the world to San Francisco on a classic two-day trip and I said I wouldn't
get on an Amtrak train if my life depended on it and I sure wouldn't bring my children
on one because they haven't updated the rail beds in 60 years.
We have worse rail beds than Mexico.
That's why trains can go 250 miles an hour in Japan or in Germany but not in the US.
My grandmother, when she was going to college, would shoot down from East Texas to get her
masters in Houston on a train that went 135 miles an hour.
Now they can't go 40 miles an hour on that same track.
Here it is, train wreck Tacoma, death toll unknown, 80 mile an hour, flew off the track.
Looks like it obviously had a bunch of passengers on board, pray for those folks.
That's all coming up, so much more.
Obama's been caught working with Hezbollah to deal drugs, that's mainstream news.
You cannot make this up, but first, powerful report by John Baum, Mueller ignores the Fourth
Amendment to foment a coup.
It's not looking good, it's quite sad to see that, so my people were very upset about
it.
I can't imagine there's anything on it frankly because as we said, there's no collusion.
There's no collusion whatsoever, but a lot of lawyers thought that was pretty sad.
What does the Fourth Amendment mean to special counsel Robert Mueller's bogus, deep state
investigation of the commander in chief?
Well as you would expect, nothing.
In a letter obtained by Fox News and sent to House and Senate committees on Saturday,
the transition team's attorney alleges unlawful conduct by the career staff at the General
Services Administration and handing over transition documents to the special counsel's office.
Lori Langhofer, the counsel to Trump for America, argues the GSA did not own or control
the records in question and the release of documents could be a violation of the Fourth
Amendment which protects against unreasonable searches and seizures.
The emails are said to be of a sensitive nature regarding Trump's interior conversations
about nominees, not to mention executive policy.
However, once it was added to the spin cycle of the mainstream media, special counsel Mueller
came out smelling as fresh as a daisy.
But this has been a months long orchestrated, frankly pathetic and also dangerous attack
by Fox News, by many in the conservative right to try to discredit Mueller.
This is a different legal team.
What they're doing is they're setting up the ground game to fire Mueller and let me tell
you, the American, majority of American people will not allow this move on, has had more
than 80,000 people sign up for a protest if in case Mueller is indeed fired.
Over 500 events across the country.
People are not going to take it.
Except the Harvard Harris poll released recently said 54% of Americans of all parties see the
investigators as biased against Trump.
Okay, look at that.
So you may see it on your end, but polling shows different.
That's one poll.
That's one.
This is a total distract.
Let me just say, this whole discussion is so interesting to me because it's all part
of the Trump legal team assault on the integrity of law enforcement in this country intended
to distract people, distract people from the potential, the investigation into ties between
the Trump campaign and its officials and Russian interference.
And this is all a setup potentially to fire Bob Mueller.
When Trump's lawyers come out and use the press to say Mueller's acting unlawfully,
that creates a narrative for right wing media to put on the bottom of the screen, to put
in banner headlines on the website, to add more fodder to this narrative that the Mueller
probe is illegitimate needs to be shut down.
I believe that the president wants all of this shut down.
He wants to shut down these investigations and he wants to fire special counsel Mueller.
The rumor on the hill when I left yesterday was that the president was going to make a
significant speech at the end of next week and on December 22nd, when we are out of DC,
he was going to fire Robert Mueller.
Oddly enough, as the world turns, regardless of the beating of the dead horse of Russia
collusion with the White House, you heard it here first and the globalists are already
dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas spectacular extravaganza brought to you by Info Wars and
it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas.
You know, Christmas is about Christmas and to celebrate this, we've got the biggest sales
in the history of Info Wars and InfoWarsTour.com, 50 to 67% off all our bestselling items and
free shipping.
A lot of these items, high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel, water filtration,
you name it, is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus
Christ and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at InfoWars.com
or go to InfoWarsTour.com again, it is the Christmas spectacular extravaganza.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the front lines of the Info War.
It was Lieutenant Colonel Matt Schmitzmack that joined us a year and a half ago on the
broadcast and he laid out how a shipment was going from a specific Arizona base of hundreds
of millions of dollars of weapons, some of them high impact, that's grenade launchers,
anti-tank weapons, you name it, to the Mexican cartels and then to Hezbollah, but also to
ISIS to fund both sides, breaking fast and furious with secret program to ship arms
to Middle East terrorists, Haddon Salazar, March 30th, 2016.
Now he got physically attacked for coming on the broadcast and death threaded his family,
you name it.
So again, three people attacked him from behind and of course, Tosh Plumlee is a very famous
CIA whistleblower, he recommended Mr. Schmitzmack, Tosh Plumlee is basically in hiding right
now in South America, so that's what you have to go through to come on the show and
do this stuff.
These are very honorable men and because of them, we now have this information, it's
Politico, not going to give us credit, it's all right here and we'll give you the rest
of the story, Obama letting Hezbollah deal cocaine all over Europe and all over the
United States and work with Mexican drug cartels to ship drugs into this country and the big
story was Obama wasn't just letting him do it, he was shipping them anti-tank weapons,
you name it.
You go, why would they fund ISIS and Hezbollah?
Because they want a crisis and a pretext to then move the U.S. military into the area.
Trump is reportedly not being cynical in trying to clean it all up and then hopefully leave.
The problem is McMaster is ignoring that, keeping U.S. bases in Syria and now it's come out
from our sources and mainstream news are refueling, re-preparing, re-branding ISIS right now
in counter-valence of the president.
You are getting absolute total exclusive here.
You realize how dangerous this is and I'm saying this is not pearls before swine is
it?
We're going to get some clips because this all just came together this morning and right
before I went live I went Lieutenant Colonel Matt Smithmack, because the name is rare and
then I was wondering what was his name, what was his name, what was his name and the crew
found it in literal minutes and it all just clicked again.
He laid it all out, now it's classified so he couldn't give the specific weapons or
any of it but that's an active duty guy coming out and saying Obama has this order to ship
these weapons in three weeks.
Can you believe how much courage it took for him to do that?
People keep saying when are we going to see the courage, when are we going to see people
stop this?
Well you just saw it.
We should have stayed in contact with Matt, we just have so many powerful whistleblowers
and patriots on it, I don't take him for granted, we're just in such a war politically in the
information war and a pile of brass around us that we just, it's the fog of war here
but this is incredible out of all the huge news we've got.
Everyone's focused on the tragic 80 mile an hour Amtrak flying off the rails, passenger
train looks bad, no death toll yet, DrudgeReport.com and FullWars.com.
We have the latest but you add this to Obama working with Iran in one sided deals and Obama
doing side deals and Obama working with the Arab Spring as well.
The secret back story of how Obama let Hezbollah off the hook, that's the whitewash from police
in Politico because they know that Trump and his people are now on this and that Obama
is in deep trouble and that they could get in a lot of trouble for what they've done
if we focus on it and talk about it and you've now got Congressman Bud Cummins, Congressman
Jim Jordan, Congressman Trey Gowdy all saying the FBI committed crimes, it was a group of
organized stay behind network engaged in organized crime fraud against Trump and the
American people, we have them with their organized conspiracy, the entire operation of a tight
knit group, combing, struck, the just department official, his wife heading up, fusing GPS,
hired to create the fake dossier, I mean it is a tight knit group, it isn't the general
FBI and it's because of good people in the FBI and in the military and in the ATF quite
frankly, I'm not defending that bad agency but there's some good people that we know
all this show, it's all coming together and I want to put the clips together today, I've
got the crew on it with all the different statements because now you've got the former
deputy director of the FBI, we played that yesterday coming out and saying these people
belong in Leavenworth, we'll play that clip by the way when we come back from break, they
belong in Leavenworth and Adon Salazar deserves a Pulitzer Prize for working weeks on this
story and the Lieutenant Colonel deserves to really be defended but instead he got cracked
down on, he got threatened, he got physically attacked and we gave him our number and our
info, we never heard from him again, god who knows he's even among us anymore, Plumlee's
in South America, we know where we doesn't want us to tell anybody, that's right Tosh
Plumlee has gone to South America over this, he's had to leave the United States, very
famous CIA contractor, Neufville Castro, knows all the big cartels, ran whole CIA operations,
has left the building over this because there is a war going on behind the scenes and they
told Plumlee, off air he told me this on there, he said he was getting threatened, they said
listen old man, we're gonna come to your house and cut your G.D. head off, he said fine I'm
dumping everything on you and then he left the country, this is a guy until he retired
three years ago that would be on the show with a line of C-130s lined up, loaded with
heavy weapons to be delivered to ISIS, calling in saying I got sources in NATO and the Pentagon
and everywhere else that they're delivering high-pound weapons, hold on, hold on, we gotta
wait for all these aircrafts, you're supposed to call them 50 minutes ago and I've told
people that we're with them, there's like a line of 10 aircraft about to deliver all
the weapons and he's going I've got sources they're delivering these weapons.
So you think about all that ladies and gentlemen, that's what's going on here, that's what we're
doing, Trump's not doing stuff like that, but McMaster who remember said we are gonna
invade Syria, we are gonna take Assad out, remember six months ago and Trump comes up
and goes no you're not, that's not true, stop it.
But they built up these big forces right over the Iraqi border and they are reconstituting
the groups to go in and try to topple Assad again, that's why the Russians just pulled
their troops out to take the high road to say just pull your troops out, follow the
agreement, don't overthrow this country that allows secular people and minority Christians
and others to live there, stop, stop, but Trump as you've seen has his agenda frustrated
at every single level, people say oh he's playing a double game, no he's not, I know
people that talked to the president, Jay Zafir McMaster said that they were gonna go in,
he said no we're not, no boots on the ground and I'm gonna make a statement on it and then
he made a statement on it and that's why they were flipping out, because Trump was able
to talk to people then that would bring this stuff up and say Mr. President, this is your
promise you said that, you know it's a quagmire, you know we need to stabilize the region
not be in there trying to stir things up, that's the old globalist agenda, don't have
to tell me that, absolutely, what your Sam McMaster is on television saying that, yes
sir he said it on CNN yesterday, so they sneak around like bad children seeing what
they can get away with and they become outraged when people get a hold of them and tell them
what's going on, that's why it's important for people to talk to the president when he
goes out to speak or his security detail or anybody to tell him about stuff because they're
trying to get him totally isolated, but again the secret backstory of how Obama let Hezbo
off the hook, he didn't let him off the hook, he let him deal drugs, he gave him weapons
and it continued in front of everybody but now it's coming out, stay with us more on
the tragic derailment in Washington state, more on the economy, more on the FBI's Democrat
operation coming unravelled, the attempt to frame the president, blown sky high, want
revenge on the common house fly, well after 10,000 years someone has finally come up with
a better way, the bug assault, a miniaturized shotgun which utilizes ordinary table salt
as ammunition, non-toxic and no batteries required, so much fun, you'll forget you have
a wife and kids, $39.95 in free economy shipping, use discount code GCN and get an extra 10%
off your purchase at bugassault.com, makes the perfect stocking stuffer, get your bug
assault today.
The answer to being in control of your own health care is freedom from insurance, become
part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's medical
expenses, individual share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families, choose
from three health sharing programs, holistic treatments may be eligible for sharing, see
the guidelines, discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy, go to libertyoncall.org
that's libertyoncall.org.
Hello Mr. Anderson, the NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites,
we have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by big brother, getvirtualshield.com, the
world's easiest to use virtual private network, browse the web anonymously leaving pesky
advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at virtualshield.com, take advantage of our free 30 day trial, virtualshield.com,
you have the right to remain private.
Excuse me sir, could you please take a picture of my family and me with my cell phone?
Sure Mrs. Anderson, smile for the camera.
Too bad hackers never get proper permission to access your cell phone or computer camera,
anyone is or could be susceptible to illegal spying.
That's why virtualshield.com has developed Identisafe, a new security software that blocks
camera and microphone access from unwanted spies.
Get started today at virtualshield.com, take advantage of our free 30 day trial, virtualshield.com,
you have the right to remain private.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and
heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Brought by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products.
Infowarslife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Our super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain
all of these natural ingredients, xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are live and by the way, we're in the middle.
We're in the middle of the kickoff of the 34 hour transmission to celebrate our free
open society, the return of the Republic, the global awakening and to say the words
that the globalists hate so much, Merry Christmas in their lust to dominate and control and
dumb down civilization.
Now, there is so much to go over obviously here today and so many big developments happening,
but I was reading leftist and globalist publications this weekend and they're panicking.
They're saying Mueller needs our help.
He needs demonstrations.
Mueller needs people in the streets.
Mueller needs a congressional investigation to intensify.
Mueller needs us because he's not going to be able to get Trump impeached.
It's falling apart.
Congressman Jim Jordan's being mean.
Traig out.
He's being mean.
Former FBI Deputy Director James Colstrom's being mean.
Congressman Bud Cummings is being mean.
Now, there it is.
There's Brian's deltas saying, Mueller is under attack.
He's under attack.
He's running around bullying people, getting stuff without warrants, spying on folks, manufacturing
evidence up to his eyeballs with the Russians, but he's under attack.
That means Trump's fighting back.
That means that they've then got a whine and complain they can dish it out, but they can't
take it because they know, ladies and gentlemen, that they've been caught committing massive,
massive crimes and massive fraud against our electoral process, against our president.
Now Scarborough slams foxes for fomenting a constitutional crisis could lead to violence.
Oh, they're the ones fomenting violence with Antifa.
They're the ones calling for constitutional crisis going back a year ago when Trump was
president-elect.
They're the ones that I've been warning you we're building towards this.
And then when they finally trigger it, they're going to turn around and say, we did it.
No, Hillary stole the election from Bernie Sanders, the nomination.
Hillary tried to steal it from Trump.
You're the guys that are in bed with the Russians and the Communist Chinese.
You're the ones that sold out the country.
You're the ones that manufactured the dossier.
You're the ones that have been caught.
And now you're getting more shrill.
You're getting more panic.
You're getting more crazy and the weak-minded people that follow you and buy into all this,
they're getting more violent.
They're attacking more people.
They're shooting more Republicans.
Their neighbors are Republican.
They shoot them.
Their neighbors are Republican congressmen.
They shoot them.
Their neighbor is a Republican legislator.
They shoot them or a mayor.
This is the new, oh, you're a Republican on the city council.
I'm going to shoot you because you're a Nazi and I'm a soldier in D-Day fighting you because
it's so horrible what Trump's done, trying to restore that country, trying to break the
back of political correctness.
It's so horrible that you live in this echo chamber that we've got to go attack our Republican
neighbors like Rand Paul right now.
So that's where this is.
And now Scarborough says the violence is coming.
The violence is coming because they've been caught making up the assaults that Trump supposedly
engaged in, making up the Russiagate, making up what he's done with the economy.
But as the economy begins to come back, their panic only intensifies and they've been caught.
Their whole hope, the insurance policy to bring down Trump has now been blown into a
trillion little pieces.
And when is McCabe going to resign, the director of the FBI?
When is Mueller going to get indicted?
You see, that's why they're spinning it now that Trump better not fire Mueller.
Trump better not fire Mueller.
That's the line of the sand for nationwide riots.
That proves he's corrupt.
Well, he should be fired for all the fraud he's involved in.
But hey, leave it there.
Go, oh no, Mueller is going to stay.
And Trump comes out all weekend in statements and says, I'm not firing him.
He's a disgrace.
He's a joke.
He's a fraud.
They go, don't attack him.
Don't bring up that you got the emails and the text to how it's all an open and shut conspiracy
by your operatives in the FBI to take out the duly elected president.
So that's why Trump says, I'm not considering firing special counsel, but they don't stop.
They don't stop.
They don't stop.
They don't stop.
They come out day after day and say, yes, you are absolutely red line.
Eric Holder, the incredibly corrupt former head of the Justice Department that was involved
in all these cover ups and uranium one and everything calls for protestive Trump fires
Mueller.
Trump came out Antifa came out a few days ago and said, we're going to have nationwide
basically rampages and be fires and notice he then says exactly what they said because
it's all a Soros playbook.
And here's another one.
Trump, my people are very upset about Mueller obtaining emails illegally, which show nothing.
They claim that's being mean to Mueller to point out you violated my rights.
You swat team grade all these people.
You got caught lying.
You lied to get a fake warrant.
That's bullying to stand up for yourself.
Mueller walks over and stabs Trump right in the chest and Trump says, that's not very
nice.
And they go, how dare you?
I just stabbed you.
Trump's transition lawyer Mueller and properly obtained documents in Russia, bro.
Even CNN admits that he breaks the law and the real problem is he trumped to unveil America
first national security strategy today.
That's why they're so upset.
So let's play a few clips.
Here is James Colstrom on Fox over the weekend, former deputy director of the FBI saying these
people belong in Leavenworth.
Here it is.
What can an FBI official and FBI agent do to stop a president from getting elected?
Well, I think he can do what this guy tried to do.
He can fabricate things.
He can make up stuff.
He can lie.
He can be a total moron.
He can recruit others.
You know, he belongs in Leavenworth, this guy, in my personal view.
I don't have all the facts, but from what I know, he belongs behind bars, this guy.
You know, these things cannot happen in a democracy.
Yep.
Total fraud.
Let's go ahead.
Here's Bud Cummings.
Here's part of the clips.
Congressman takes on the FBI plot and exposes the FBI plot against Trump.
So let's go through some of these issues.
I mean, the number three guy at the Department of Justice, the number three guy hires his
wife who works for Fusion GPS.
She's hired to do research about Trump colluding with the Russians at the same time that we
know that Hillary Clinton and her Clinton Foundation took $140 million after allowing
the sale of 20% of the U.S.'s stockpile of uranium.
Some people call that treason.
That happened, and yet Bruce Orr's wife is hired who works for Fusion GPS.
They come up with this dossier, which we know is a bunch of garbage, and that's actually
the justification for wiretapping the Trump Organization?
Yeah.
I mean, we find ourselves here.
It appears on the basis of a fraud that was perpetuated on the FBI and the Department of
Justice and the United States intelligence agencies to form a predicate based on this
fake dossier.
And there are people along the chain that knew or should have known where it came from,
who paid for it, and how credible it was, but it was used for foreign surveillance.
It was used to unmask United States citizens.
And then it was formed as a predicate for a special counsel that we are going to make
today.
We're going to break and come back with the rest.
This is so critical what you're watching, ladies and gentlemen.
The whole thing is coming down a criminal conspiracy of Democrats inside to engage in
fraud against everyone.
Once again, I'm going to break and come back with the rest of the story.
All life benefits, if you'd like a free book about how this can be done, call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareStore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto
ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new auto ship feature at InfoWareStore.com,
this is a sure win, 10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at InfoWareStore.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos
or other material from InfoWareStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clear.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at InfoWareStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that.
For children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad, the colloidal silver and iodine as well, InfoWareStore.com or AAA-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Alright, we've reached an extremely dangerous junk shirt right now, the globalist program
to block the American reboot and the attempt to simply get our sovereignty back into the
United States and to get our own country under control of the people again.
That has them pulling out all the stops, but every one of their operations is failing right
now.
So they are going to full weaponization where every comedy show, every major TV show, every
news show, every newspaper is basically saying let's get violent, let's attack Trump supporters,
let's attack Trump, let's have a civil war.
And they just hope they can foam in enough violence and enough intimidation and enough
bullying to make the American people roll over to their demands.
And it's very sad to see the very weak-minded people, even as the economy comes back and
good things happen, they really believe that the American people and Trump are physically
hurting them so they're going out and physically attacking, they're bullying, Scarborough again,
the clips coming up has come out and said that Trump is so horrible that he's going
to cause violence in America to erupt while the former Attorney General calls for people
to hit the streets to remove Trump.
And while they run full-page ads in the New York Times and we say, hey, you're fomenting
all this, they go, no, we're not, you're crazy.
Scarborough slams Fox News for fomenting a constitutional crisis could lead to violence
because Fox News is daring to have congressmen on with the emails and the text messages and
the FBI files where they met with the deputy director on how to keep Trump out of office
and how to create an insurance policy made up dossier to push the fake Russian narrative.
We have caught them in a gigantic, arrogant, foaming at the mouth, arrogance-fueled, rabid
dog, reckless, naked, bold, ridiculous fraud.
It looks like maybe 15 people in the Justice Department and the FBI, and that really makes
me feel good to know that for all the problems in our government, they tried to keep it down
to like 15 people knowing that it would leak and they'd get in trouble, which of course
it did leak, and people are going to start covering their butts now because they don't
all want to go to prison.
And I don't know how the Clintons and their operatives and the FBI get away with this.
I don't know how Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch or James Comey or Eric Holder.
I don't see how Strach gets away with this, and there's only a couple others.
The Justice Department official, his wife at Fusion GPS, I don't see how they put Humpty
Dumpty back together again, and that's the issue.
They're now at the full-cornered hyena point, and we're moving in for the political final
blow, and they're going to hit us with whatever else they got.
I think they're going to go ahead and make their move to kill the president.
I think in the next 30 days, I think they're going to make an assassination attempt.
I just, my gut, I see all of them together, they're that desperate.
They're either going to give up or they're going to activate their cells, and a lot of
my smart sources agree with that, and they've got a lot of mentally ill Democrats and people
inside the Secret Service, inside other places in government, and you know, whenever the
Clintons and then the Obamas would go into military areas, they'd have everybody take
the clips, the magazines, the ammunition out of their firearms.
Trump isn't doing that.
They're not taking the ammunition out, and I just, I don't think they should, and the
president, if he's going to get killed, he's ready to get killed, and that's just where
this is going to go next.
And it's going to be like when they killed Julius Caesar, you know what happened to Plotters.
I mean, they really brought down hell on them then.
I mean, I don't want the president to be killed, but if they are dumb enough to actually do
it, boy, they have sealed their warrant of death.
I mean, they have guaranteed they are all going to probably never even see court.
So they're playing chicken with people that are ready to mash down the accelerator, because
I know I'm mashing it down.
I'm pointing my car right at the nose of theirs.
So is Trump at the spirit.
Just you awaken the sleeping giant, paddle to the metal.
Only thing that feels good is to not, not turn.
We're not going to turn.
We're not going to back down.
We're not going to give up.
We're going to break your will.
We are going to break your will.
And if you want to press down the accelerator, want to go right into us, that means we guarantee
that your defeat, because we're doing this for everybody else.
We're not Satan worshipers like you, only care about themselves.
We're going to get you.
We're going to come for you.
We're never going to stop.
You're going to be absolutely destroyed.
So you want to fight?
You better believe you got one and listen, Trump's not perfect.
His administration's full of globalists.
That's where he's, I mean, you can only draw from the swamp at this point.
He's gotten a lot done, but he's restoring the power to the Republic, to the Congress,
to the presidency, to the States, to the people.
That's happening.
The globalist takeover of America is almost at its tentacles completely cut off.
It's why their money's drying up.
It's why they're flipping out.
It's why they got Phil Mudd on TV, so we're going to kill the president.
Former deputy director of the CIA is a confidence game to act powerful to the entire world.
And now everything I've told you about the criminality, about the network, about the
fake dossier, it's all former deputy directors telling you it's a fraud, Congress people,
and we have the documents.
We have the real smoking gun documents that they don't have on the other side, on Russia,
on selling us out, on making up a fake dossier on what they haven't said yet is they paid
two million diffusion GPS and she got the main contract, the wife of the guy that called
for the funding.
And of course, the Washington Post gets it, does the Trump cabinet picks want to run the
government or dismantle it?
No, you got it.
We're dismantling it.
We told you it's too big, it's out of control.
Get off our back.
You put all this on us and bragged it was so we couldn't compete with anybody.
It was a saboteur operation against the Republic.
There are powerful elites that aren't devil worshipers, they're not perfect, by the way,
who don't have it out for America or Western civilization and they want to build something
good.
Doesn't mean we won't slit your throat in a minute.
You try to stop us.
You scumbags take our kindness for weakness and you're going to find out that's not how
the cow ate the cabbage.
You want a fight, you have got one.
You want a fight, you've got one.
You want one, you've got one.
You want one, you've got one.
I love being alive.
I don't like the persecution, the dirty tricks that I've done to my family, but you know
what?
My family doesn't have any future if we don't beat you.
You understand that?
So I'm all in and once people are all in about this thing and don't care about how they get
bullied online or what their neighbors say to them, stand up for what you believe in.
Speak up.
Don't be bullied and we're going to win.
By the way, one big way to stand up is financial funding.
Most people plug every segment during Christmas because it's the main time that merchants
and people fund themselves and that's how we fund ourselves is selling high quality products.
The network of folks mainly with advertising with us, it's you buying products, t-shirts,
books, films.
We've got free shipping store-wide and it is going to have to end in the next few days.
You get guaranteed shipping anywhere.
In all 50 states, by the day before Christmas, many times even earlier, if you order by today,
infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com, we have 50% off.
That's 50% off right now on all of our best sellers and all of these hot new items on incredible
supplements, infowarslife.com.
We have products that are simply amazing and you know, there always seems to be a Christmas
gift that people just in group think but in a good way decide to buy and the two things
everybody's decided to buy this Christmas is the fluoride free toothpaste super blue
with the colloidal silver and the iodine fortifying it, adults and children's.
That is about to sell out, people are ordering it so fast and we're also selling out of alpha
power even though it's a new item, I mean at the projections it's really selling quick.
That's vital male androgen and so much more.
It's got all the known healthy compounds but it's great for women as well that is over
the top strong so be careful with it.
It's 50% off, leading competitors are like $100 for formulas that aren't even as strong
or have as much of the compounds that's in alpha power.
So infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com or triple eight two five three three one three
nine.
Do your Christmas shopping here, don't fight the crowds, don't fight the traffic, fund
the info war and give yourself the gift of helping fund the defeat of the globals at the
same time and get great products but there's a lot of t-shirts, books, films, water filters,
over a thousand high quality items at infowarsstore.com and free shipping.
You heard it here first and the globals are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas spectacular extravaganza brought to you by info wars and
it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas.
You know Christmas is about Christmas and to celebrate this we've got the biggest sales
in the history of info wars and infowarsstore.com, 50 to 67% off all our best selling items
and free shipping.
A lot of these items, high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, patriot apparel, water filtration,
you name it, is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus
Christ and celebrate western culture and celebrate the re-emergence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at infowars.com
and infowarsstore.com, again it is the Christmas spectacular extravaganza.
Hey if you want to slow down your aging process and protect your heart and brain from constant
exposure to harmful toxins then you need DNA force, the most complete full spectrum age
defying cell protecting formula in the world.
DNA force is designed to help energize your cardiovascular system and reduce the aging
process.
Yeah you like the sound of that?
Each bottle is jam packed with a powerful antioxidant blend, clinically studied to support
and accelerate your body's natural defenses against harmful toxins.
It's in your DNA.
Go to infowarslife.com right now and check out the reviews for yourself and now just
in time for Christmas we are offering DNA force at 33% off, so take advantage of this
incredible deal.
Get a bottle of DNA force today at infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
You deserve a deep rest whole sleep with knockout by infowarslife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the rapid speed
of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Infowarslife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue that's infowarslife.com.
Climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by Infowarslife for those who want to
increase testosterone and energy levels.
Men know that testosterone levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of about
1-2% per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss.
Alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
So, if you are a regular listener, you know that I have exposed from their own websites
their own plans the stated, admitted goals of Soros, the deep state, the Democrats in
their own publications saying we're going to cause a constitutional crisis, we're going
to bring all this Mueller stuff up and then claim that Trump's trying to block it, then
we're going to have riots, then we're going to activate the Black Lives Matter, then we're
going to have Republicans start getting shot and killed at their homes, public places.
You see it happening.
Some are going to kill the president and they do that, they even have Phil Mudd going
there and say the government's going to kill Trump to look powerful to their other criminal
networks to say, hey, hold fast, we're strong, he's dead.
What all those folks need to do that have been approached about the coup is to go to
the patriot media, go to the president, do your own YouTubes because then it'll get big
and the people around Trump won't be able to block him from getting it.
Here's an example in Bloomberg, Washington bureaucrats are quietly working to undermine
Trump's agenda.
That's called mutiny.
Well, they said, Obama said earlier this year, he said, don't worry, we've been spying on
Trump and don't worry, we've put people into all the positions so they won't let him hire
anybody under him.
We'll just fire those people and they'll lie right to the president's face.
Just like McCabe said, sir, I'm loyal, I'll follow the Constitution, I'm not a Clinton
operative, okay, McCabe, you're a nominee.
And then McCabe is the ringleader in the emails and text messages creating the fraud
of the Fusion GPS.
Now you understand what the president is up against just like we are.
He's just a beachhead, he gives the orders and they've ignored 90% of them, but still
the economy's coming back because we were so tied down by these little abutians.
And again, they've said in Atlantic Monthly, in the New Yorker, in the Financial Times,
in the last year, hundreds of times, how they want a civil emergency, how they're going
to call it an emergency that's his fault, how they're going to activate riots and say,
oh, the economy plunged, it's his fault.
They're ready to cause a depression.
We're on the edge.
That's why we've got to expose what they're doing.
That's why we've got to expose their plan.
And now word for word, when I told you they were planning to do with this soft coup that's
going high, Scarborough comes out who is the mouthpiece of these people and says it all
this morning, laced with baloney when they're the ones causing the crisis, when they're
the ones that stole the nomination from Sanders, when they're the ones that tried to block
Trump being seated, when they're the ones that created the frauds.
And now we learn, I already knew this, but that Trump had hired different private contractor
groups that were known to be loyal to the country who weren't globalist.
Eric Prince and some other groups out of Florida, private contractor groups, to protect him
during the campaign, during the time that he was in transition.
And they've tried to, the Secret Service tried to get rid of them, but some of those groups
are still there and they have told the president, it now came out in Politico and the Intercept,
word for what I said.
There's a rogue group of CIA and FBI, they're planning your overthrow.
We're trying to stop them.
They've been counter surveilling them, but only surveilling their illegal surveillance
on the president, only doing it at point-backed range in the streets, only with human intelligence
on the ground watching what's going on.
I mean, this is a civil war, folks, we're taking the country back.
In fact, it's beyond a civil war because we're the Americans, doesn't mean we're perfect.
Private lives, intelligence agencies, citizens in government, corporate people, you name
it, who aren't traitors, who just want the country back.
That's all we want is our country back run by the people.
And we want classic Americana prosperity, not globalism.
And so we're being demonized, we're under attack.
And the bureaucrats are just in a mutinous fashion ignoring everything.
But they can't hold on much longer, it's been a year.
And they're getting scared and they've been caught in their early fraud.
They were arrogant, they thought he'd never win.
They set this fraud up thinking it was an insurance policy.
Then the arrogance went to fear as they knew they were all going to go to prison.
And Trump reached out early on and said, just stop it, let's move forward with the country,
I'll leave you alone.
I told the president, I said, sir, that is a mistake.
You must go after them now.
They are going to do X, Y, Z.
And the media goes, why does Trump keep listening to info wars?
He says it and then Trump says it a week later, because I'm right, I'm right, over
and over and over again, because I live this, I'm not a lazy blob.
Like Phil Mudd that goes on TV and goes, we'll just kill the president.
And then that's all he's got is his bravada.
We're watching you scum.
We know about your plan more than you do.
You just keep rolling the dice, hoping you're going to win.
This has all been wargamed throughout history.
It's been wargamed here.
You'll never get away with killing the president.
And if you did, you will be destroyed.
I haven't gotten to the Scarborough and Roger Stone is here with big, exclusive stuff.
We're going to play the Scarborough when he's on with us, top on info wars.com.
But it's here.
But notice I'd say they're planning to cause a civil emergency and they're planning to
call for COG and they're going to call it a national emergency and a national crisis
that the president is the crisis.
They're trying to declare the 25th amendment.
They're going to say he's mentally ill and brain damage.
They're going to, because we have moles.
We have moles inside who aren't out to get the country, who act like they're liberals
and sit there at the New York Times and the Washington Post in these meetings where they
go, the public's not buying it.
It's all fraud and Hillary and Obama are totally in bed with the Chinese and the Russians and
everybody else.
And what are we going to do?
We get caught.
They're like, don't worry.
Next we'll say he has Alzheimer's or they're just going to kill him.
You're like, really?
They're like, don't worry.
I've talked to the former director.
They've got the teams ready.
You know, I mean, if they're on TV saying they're going to kill the president, they're
in these meetings, man, because they got to hype their people up.
They're like, we're scared.
We don't want to do this.
The economy's coming back.
My 401K is up 40%.
These conversations are happening and they're going, you shut up.
You're part of it now.
We're going to kill that orange-headed piece of crap.
Now sit down and shut up.
And Phil Mudd's on TV.
God, I'm just going to kill him.
You're just saying that because you're getting your ass kicked, you want an American piece
of trash?
You big fat parasite garbage.
Again, scum, you want to fight.
You're just, go ahead and try to kill the president.
Go ahead.
I mean, let's go.
You want to fight?
You're going to, none of you will ever get away with this.
You idiots.
It's not Scarborough.
Oh, I know he's got away with other stuff.
So like any other piece of garbage, he thinks he'll get away with this.
You're not getting away with nothing.
And here's a little secret about me.
I'm not trying to get out of this myself.
You understand?
I want to see you burn in hell.
I understand that, Phil.
I'm not a devil worshipper.
Narcissistic coward, scum like you.
I want to see you defeated.
You understand that?
All of us have to have that attitude where we're not scared of anything and we are committed
and we are not stopping and that's it.
That's it.
You understand?
Now, they will strike back, but these sacks of crud are going down.
We have them shipping the arms to Hezbollah, Obama.
We have that Marine Corps Lieutenant Colonel coming on that broke it all here in March of
last year.
The white washes in the Politico today.
The secret backstory of how Obama let Hezbollah off the hook.
Off the hook for drug dealing all over the world and in the U.S. to buy arms.
And guess who they were buying the arms from?
Fast and furious wasn't just shipping guns down to cause a Mexican civil war.
They were shipping high impact anti-tank weapons.
You name it, through Mexico, through those ports to the Middle East.
And now, oh, I guess you want that to come out, Obama?
It is.
And to have a controlled demolition, you guys are releasing it through Politico to make
it a whitewash.
Oh, he let him off the hook.
He didn't let him off the hook.
He was in triple X sex with him.
He was in Congress with him.
He's in bed with Iran, in bed giving him the weapons.
So, get ready for all of that to come out.
The Lieutenant Colonel that first broke it all, breaking Fast and Furious with secret
partnership arms of Middle East terrorists, March 30th, last year, Adan Salazar.
And now it's all coming out.
This is the specific operation.
This has all been ordered.
The guns are shipped out.
The drugs are shipped out.
And then the Arab and Muslim networks sell the drugs and buy more guns.
Wow.
Don't forget, store-wide free shipping.
We need your financial support now more than ever.
We are committed.
You get great products and you fund information warfare using our weapon, the truth against
the globalist free shipping store-wide infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com, or triple 825-33139.
And you've got to order by the day to be guaranteed shipping anywhere in the United
States.
Most areas in the lower four to eight, you still get it if you order tomorrow, but take
advantage.
67% off colloidal silver, 50% off super blue toothpaste, it's great stocking stuffers,
none of the tree.
These are war bonds.
Everyone commit and buy the products, please.
Vitamin mineral fusion, visit infowarslife.com to secure your chemist.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at infowarslife.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of infowarslife, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield X2, super male vitality and so many others.
With its unique delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized
effects, this formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this
part is most important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure, and rest secured, you're finding the tip of
the spear in the info war, that's infowarslife.com and vitamin mineral fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
Well thank you, my favorite new one is the don't tread on me but said it says won't
tread on me and it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake and then it's got the American flag
infowars.com on the right arm, I mean that's a great way just to meet like minded people
and spread the word and also exercise free speech and the newest one is trigger warning
t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and
the infowars.com on the back, that is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively
at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Okay my friends, we are back live broadcasting worldwide on this Monday, the 18th of December
2017.
Thank you so much for joining us, we've got an overload of people today, it's going to
be amazing.
Roger Stone with Breaking News in studio next segment, we then have the Lieutenant Colonel
from the Marine Corps on who first broke that fast and furious was being directly run on
a military basis not just out of gun shops, that was the low level cover that was just
a sting program gone bad, that was nothing, that was just retail part of an operation
to blame gun owners so they wanted some retail arms shipped into Mexico, it was US Army, US
Marine Corps, heavy weapons, anti-tank weapons, full auto machine guns, light machine guns,
heavy machine guns, battle rifles, and then drugs were also given to Hezbollah, it's
also ISIS, to be brought back in and then to buy more guns, that was all Obama, it's
in political today, we broke it over a year ago, so that is coming up as well.
This is so bombshell and the entire FBI Clinton operation is now coming down, so Scarborough
and the Democrats are now going directly to their day of rage that the Antifa groups
that we broke yesterday called for, we told you yesterday the mainstream media will now
call for rage in the streets, Holder has called for people to hit the streets, so Scarborough
claiming that Trump's gonna fire Mueller, not even true, but again, we're gonna let
Mueller just fry out there in the wind as all of these emails come out about he and
McKay fixing the whole thing, so that's coming up, but first I wanna play this special report
here, or at least part of it, this is MSM covers it up while Info Wars breaks it, so
here's part of a report, but John Bowen, we are able to force things out that the media
is already sitting on, remember Roger Stone and others broke here two and a half months
ago that McMaster was at a particular restaurant, a particular place and who he was with and
that he said, oh, I just got off the phone with that idiot, moron, all he can do is
use Twitter, he's so stupid, I'm afraid he's gonna blow the planet up and that McMaster
was a slob and drunk.
Now we knew the New York Post sat on that, the New York Times sat on that, we were giving
it because they sat on it, and then two months later, two and a half months later, it broke
what two weeks ago, exactly as we said at the very restaurant, all of it confirmed.
McMaster went to dinner with a CEO executive from Oracle, Safra Katz, Katz is widely admired
in the business community and was being recruited as the possible chairman for the President's
Intelligence Review Board.
McMaster became exceedingly inebriated, according to the report I have received, and during
the dinner, took a phone call from the President, at least having the good sense to step away
from the table.
When he returned, he went into a diet tribe about his boss, he described the President
as a dope, said that he could think beyond 140 characters, that he couldn't understand
any complex issues, and that the idea of Trump with his hands on the nuclear football was
inappropriate or scary, he said it just is scary, that his view is, his job was to save
Trump from blowing up the world.
McMaster, as I started out in April, he started purging anybody who was remotely America first
to anybody who actually cared about America.
He had said that we need to get rid of all of the Trump people and bring in Obama holdovers,
and then he said, you can't even call people Obama holdovers.
So right now, we are in a war for the future of our nation, and McMaster is the greatest
national security threat facing America.
That's our job, is to not get the attention or even be praised for what we do, it's to
force the media to cover it.
That's our real power.
Because before, they could cover stuff up like that forever, they could cover up a Monica
Lewinsky or Chinese missile secrets, you name it, if whistleblowers went public because
there wasn't a drudgereport.com to put it up, like back with Monica Lewinsky, McMaster
trashed Trump and private dinner, MSN break story, info wars broke months ago, there's
Dan Lyman's article from November 21st, you can scroll down into the article and actually
click the original, info wars broke the story, report McMaster labeled Trump.
If you want to slow down your aging process and protect your heart and brain from constant
exposure to harmful toxins, then you need DNA force, the most complete, full spectrum
age-defying, cell-protecting formula in the world.
DNA force is designed to help energize your cardiovascular system and reduce the aging
process.
Yeah, you like the sound of that?
Each bottle is jam-packed with a powerful antioxidant blend clinically studied to support
and accelerate your body's natural defenses against harmful toxins.
It's in your DNA.
Go to infowarslife.com right now and check out the reviews for yourself.
And now, just in time for Christmas, we are offering DNA force at 33% off, so take advantage
of this incredible deal.
Get a bottle of DNA force today at infowarslife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Yeah!
Some of my colleagues at Trump Tower just a few minutes ago, there's a little optimism
here.
No one thought it was going to be this close at this point.
Trump can still win this thing.
We have another state to project it as the state of North Carolina, big battle grad state.
It's going to Donald Trump.
I was actually ready to go to bed and I started seeing the electoral college come in and I
was like, super psyched.
This is going to be a very close election.
I'm seeing these late-breaking trends.
This could hand Trump the presidency, folks.
This is not by any means over.
I think there's some real jitter setting in Clinton headquarters right now.
Wolf, the scene here is so different than it was a few hours ago when people were happy
and relaxed.
This is most unexpected.
Certainly is a huge, huge surprise to so many people out there.
I think we all thought it couldn't happen, that he couldn't do what he did, and guess
what?
He may just do it.
Donald Trump has taken the lead.
He has 216 electoral votes.
This is clearly the beginning of the end for Hillary Clinton's campaign.
He is pulling ahead of Hillary Clinton.
You see it right there, too.
We haven't discussed the number of groups who are likely feeling real fear right now.
You've got women, immigrants, who have been threatened by Donald Trump with deportation.
How do I explain this to my children?
I have Muslim friends who are texting me tonight saying, should I leave the country?
America is crying tonight.
I'm not sure how much of America, but a very, very significant portion, and I mean literally
crying.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are live broadcasting worldwide on your host, Alex Jones, and you're
tuned in to InfoWars Live.
Roger Stone, former head of the Trump campaign, shares with us to cover so many big, bright
and breaking stories.
But obviously, most of people's attention is turned towards the 76 people that have been
transported to the hospital, no numbers yet on any debt.
We hope, well, we're saying three debt after Amtrak trained the rails from bridge onto
Interstate 5 near Olympia.
70-plus transported people still hanging from the rail cars.
It crashed over a broken part of the bridge and went down into the Interstate Highway,
crushing vehicles under it.
And as I've said thousands of times, I've had family members that have asked me to go
on these trains, these scenic trains, and I said, not on U.S. railbeds, never.
They are amongst the worst in the world.
Our infrastructure has been purposely for 50 years absolutely shut down.
And this is just incredible to see this unfolding.
Federal fatalities, scores injured after Amtrak train plunges off the bridge onto I-5.
So that is happening, obviously.
We're about to have something really plunge off a bridge, and that is the Democrats want
to get days of rage, protest against Trump claiming that he's scuttled the Russia investigation
and is about to fire Mueller and that he's simply exposing that it's a fraud and having
the emails that it was a Democrat operation and based on a fraudulent dossier that the
wife of the head of the Justice Department got paid to create.
And all this collusion, they are saying that they want days of rage, that they want people
on the streets, that they want all of this happening.
Scarborough, slams, Fox News for fomenting, a constitutional crisis could lead to violence.
Meanwhile, Trump says he's not firing Mueller, but they just keep coming back over and over
and over again saying, yes, you are, you're sure.
Now, Roger, early on, it said it's a fraudulent investigation.
Presidents can do this, do it.
But the last three months, he's been saying, well, or two months, no, he should have a
special counsel to expose Mueller.
Well, now Congress is actually looking at that.
So you've trailblazed there, but you told me this morning, now more than ever, Trump
does not need to fire Mueller because the conspiracy has been exposed.
I'm surprised they were arrogant enough to have FBI minutes, memos, emails, text messages
with McCabe, who was deputy director at the time.
This is simply incredible that they were this bold.
Alex, it's really extraordinary, Mueller's public credibility continues to crumble.
The emails, the campaign contributions, the interconnection of the rabid partisans who
are working for him.
And as his credibility continues to erode, the president's options, I think, continue
to expand.
Now, we're the president to fire Mueller.
You'd have the immediate analogy to the Saturday Night Massacre, Nixon's firing of special
prosecutor in Watergate Archibald Cox, and the left would get what they want.
Firing Mueller is unnecessary.
If Mueller has indicted Flynn, if he indicts the president's son-in-law on some phony obstruction
of justice or perjury charge, the president has the option now of pardoning both of them.
The president needs to ignore his lawyers when they tell him that he has no authority
to direct the actions of the Justice Department.
He does.
The Justice Department is an extension of the executive branch.
He can order Jeff Sessions, he can call him right now, and say, I order you to appoint
Andrew McCarthy or Andrew Napolitano or Trey Gowdy or Rudy Giuliani as the special counsel
to look into Uranium One.
And if Sessions cannot do that or will not, he must step aside.
There's nothing improper on that.
And once Mueller, and Comey, and McCabe, and Rod Rosenstein himself, who was the supervising
U.S. attorney in Uranium One, are under investigation, they cannot go forward.
And you've gotten Mueller killing Uranium One.
I mean, these people literally are in a criminal conspiracy, and it's not just me saying that
now.
It's all these, Trey Gowdy, Jim Jordan, it's Bud Gates, Ron DeSantis.
These guys are heroes.
They have courageously gone where the established Republicans will not go.
This whole idea.
And they're freaking out.
The Democrats are mad that this return America movement, return our sovereignty back to America
movement, won't back down.
They are naked crooks with fake dossiers openly saying, we're going to stop the president
and removing with made up crap.
It's a frame up.
It's a conspiracy.
It's just like SJWs that get caught putting swastikas on their dorm rooms.
You have been caught scum, and they are freaking out.
But I think we're at the maximum moment of danger here, Roger.
You've got Scarborough and all their talking points saying, we're just going to overthrow
Trump.
We're going to get violent.
Hashtag hunt Republicans.
So these bullies, just like we're some intern that gets our brains bashed out, I guess.
These bullies just think that they're going to tell us to fill our hand.
Well, it's a different wing of the same operation.
You were the first one to call this.
Just like the elites, that's Mueller and the lawyers and the insiders, and then they have
their street thugs financed by Soros and others.
So they intend to foment a revolution.
And Eric Holder has said, hit the street.
So it's all coordinated.
Well, the problem is, we're saying hit the streets.
We're telling patriots, no, object.
Do not allow them to take our president down in a coup d'etat.
Here are the facts.
This is a partisan hit squad.
This is a coup d'etat.
This is an illegitimate takedown of the president, not based on evidence and law, but based on
animus and hatred and fear that he is challenging the two-party duopoly in the established
order.
You know, I have said last week that I think the course is clear, Alex.
Mueller is going to indict the president in some phony process-related charge, obstruction
or perjury.
His lawyers are walking him into that, either out of naivete or because they're in on it.
And he needs to put the special counsel in now so that Mueller has to accuse himself
to draw attention to the wrongdoings and give that a new focal point.
But I say this out of loyalty and support.
By the way, Jim Jordan now agrees with you.
So you are the progenitor of the idea of the special counsel.
Some are saying, no, we need to let the inspector general do it.
Why suddenly have we seen good news by the inspector general and the releasing of these
emails and things that show the criminal conspiracy?
I think the inspector general is a good actor.
I think he's doing his job.
I think that the abuses are so glaring, the partisanship is so glaring that he's doing
his job.
I mean, this is like Cuckoo Land, like Hitler sitting over the Nuremberg trial.
I'm not just saying that.
We have them saying we are frauds, we are liars, we're going to stop the president, we're
Democrat operatives, they all help cover up Clinton crimes on the Russians.
They are covering up by accusing Trump of their crimes at the same damn time.
But let's recognize that the president's lawyers, first they told him he would have
a letter clearing him from Mueller at Thanksgiving.
And then it was Christmas.
And now it's a new meeting.
What about this new meeting coming up?
And then it was January 1st.
And now it's February 1.
I think that new meeting is going to be shocking to them.
There will be no letters clearing the president.
In fact, I think it is very likely that Jared Kushner will be indicted in regard to the
Flynn matter once again for a perjury regarding underlying legal activities.
Process because they don't have anything else.
And that brings it one step closer to the president.
Kushner's done nothing wrong.
But now they're panicking because the fake investigation has been blown sky high.
They're panicking.
They're going to the final thing right at the streets, 25th Amendment.
Exactly.
That's plan B. Man, I've got a brag.
We have called this with total precision.
But I guess we've read hundreds of history books about coup d'etats and these operations.
No, no, no, no.
We're conspiracy theorists.
Yeah.
We wait and see.
Yeah.
We'll be right back with the calls for fomenting revolution by the left.
Then they're going to blame it on us.
Stay with us.
Katie Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market
and we've succeeded with the release of our CQB technology.
We now offer the most comfortable, concealable rifle threat body armor available.
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at katiearmor.com and for a limited
time get all plates at wholesale pricing only at katiearmor.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly
delicious water now and in an emergency.
Get to goberkey.com or call 877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
Hey Daniel Bremen, why new manna, storeable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead and we take this charge
seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten, without the chemicals, great taste and value, new
manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today, call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775, online discounts available
at powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead, that's true, but did you know
you can have tax free access to your life insurance while you're still alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees, no stock market risk, no tax risk and no penalties.
All life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done, call 702-660-7000,
that's 702-660-7000.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male
vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Use your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Mike in Arizona, you're on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save
America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
As a longtime InfoWars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfoWarsLife products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
And because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on, and if we can get our houses in
order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Thanks for listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Coming up, Lieutenant Colonel Smith-Mack will be joining us, who exposed Obama's shipping
guns to Hezbollah and ISIS.
Obama went ahead and shipped the next shipments, and that really made the military angry.
I mean, Lieutenant Colonel's going public while they're active duty.
That is just wild.
This is now in Politico.
It's just huge.
We got to think about the folks, at least three dead.
Now it's saying 80-something taken to the hospital on a supposedly faster Amtrak train.
I guess it goes like 80 miles an hour instead of 40.
Of course, the Japanese have them going 250 and so do the Germans, but we don't update
our railways.
But we spend millions in taxpayer dollars subsidizing Amtrak.
Billions.
Billions.
And so, yeah, new knives, fancy cars, but not a road.
So there it crashes into I-5, killing a bunch of people on the ground.
And I literally was just telling family recently, don't go on that scenic route.
Don't get on an Amtrak.
I mean, you're really putting your life at your hands.
Not safe.
It's not safe.
They're blowing up and crashing all the time.
Despite the fact that we've subsidized Amtrak and it continues to lose money handover fest.
We need new rail beds.
We need private enterprise.
I agree, well, I come from a railroad-type family on one side, and I mean, they just
grew up talking about this and all the rest of it, I mean, our railroads have fallen apart.
Let's pray for the folks that are fighting for their lives right now, but they say it's
safe and great to get on these, and I think it's insane.
We also have just so much huge news.
I want to get into the Scarborough article, and I want you to ride shotgun with us here
throughout the next interview that's coming up.
But Roger, before we play the Scarborough piece, I mean, Plan A was keeping from getting
the nomination and then trying to keep it from being seen as president.
Now they try to sabotage the agenda.
Now they try to have the fake Mueller.
That's blown up.
So now they're going right to the final piece that was rioting on the street in violence
and calling for the 25th Amendment to take place, which you first exposed.
You know, I think if Mueller shoots and misses, which is now growingly probable because he's
so exposed, he's so naked in terms of his partisanship and the rabid nature of the takedown plan,
then the establishment will move to Plan B, which is a 25th Amendment takedown based on
the fact that the president is allegedly non-compassmentist.
He's nuts.
He's crazy.
I've talked to him.
He's sharp as a tack.
He's exactly the same as he was 40 years ago.
So I see no deterioration whatsoever, but you see Joe Scarborough, Don Lemon, Senator
Robert Corker and others, the misfit Keith Oberman with this meme.
He's nuts.
He's crazy.
He's around the bend.
But you're now willing to not give sources.
Back at the first time you said this eight months ago, you said, but we're not going
to give sources.
You said, when the female stuff fails, when the Russian fails, they're going to say he's
mentally ill early onset.
And you talked to major writers at major papers who've been in the editorial meetings where
they talk about, just like Veritas caught it on tape, the whole Russian thing's bull.
What are we going to do?
People aren't buying it and they say, don't worry, 25th Amendment, we're going to say
he's mentally ill and has Alzheimer's.
You have that from sources.
You didn't just imagine that.
No.
Look, I spoke to a Trump cabinet member this weekend and I asked them point blank.
Has there been any discussion about possibly removing the president under the 25th Amendment?
Has anybody spoken to you about that?
Poker faced.
Just poker faced.
That's how I knew that I was right.
Now we've tried.
Now they're saying it.
Well, we've tracked Senator Ben Sasse talking about it.
We've talked Jeb Bush talking about it.
We have talked.
We know that Nick Ayers, a high level aide to Vice President Pence, got busted leaking
anti-Trump Russia information.
They made Mark Lauder, the press secretary, take the fall, but it was Ayers.
And we know now that Mike Pence did demure, according to Jennifer Jacobs of Bloomberg,
in that episecond when the Billy Bush tape dropped and the Republican-
He hung up on the president and the Republican National Committee and Reich's previous
were contemplating a move to remove Trump as the nominee and replace him with Pence.
We have come within millimeters of not having this American rebirth and then people expected
to be perfect.
He's totally surrounded.
Here's Bloomberg admitting that all the major cabinet people, basically a lot of his face
and are blocking everything he's trying to do, but just the little bit he's got through
things are surging back.
I mean, if they're able to deep-six the economy, it's on their chest.
No question about it.
Look, this is the downside of appointing a cabinet of establishment Republicans.
This is the downside of not surrounding yourself with people who don't have your back.
No, there's a few standouts.
There's a few loyalists, Wilbur Ross at Commerce, Linda McMahon, and so on.
But by and large, you have establishment quizlings, people.
And Trump just thought like in business, hey, if I bring you in and you have the expertise
and I'm the executive, you're not going to hate America against its own prosperous in
your own.
Yes, they are ideologues that we're hired to begin with by the globalists because they
hate America.
They have an existential lust of defeated and mounted on the wall because they're little
beta-cut garbage.
Well, and one opens the door to another.
So you hire Rex Tillerson and the next thing you know, Condoleezza Rice is running the
place.
And all your assistants...
But it is good news that Hobbeat Powell got jettisoned out the airlock.
Yes, I think so.
Clearly she got caught leaking and they had to bounce her.
But Massar will pace her with another globalist, with another council on foreign relations
member.
The president thought, and this isn't naive, that like in all times in Americans history,
once we had an election, America would unite.
Everybody would support the president because we care about our country.
He just did not understand the deep-seated animus.
We are living in such an incredible time that the FBI would meet on record Democrats
on how to engage in fraud and admit it's a fraud.
I mean, they are red-handed caught.
And it is a pity because, as you know, the FBI has had in American history this great
reputation for probity and honesty and impartiality.
But this is not meant to denigrate the men and women at the lower levels of the FBI who
are the average agent.
They're just trying to do their job.
But at the top, this is rotten to the core.
It has become a politicized case.
It's become a Democratic Party whorehouse with a bunch of arrogant cucks that think they're
God.
Well, I would argue that it's become a globalist establishment whorehouse because guys like
Miller do dirty work for the Bushes in the Clinton.
And they sell out to all these offshore globalists in foreign countries.
In fact, they're not Russian agents, they're not Chinese agents, they are pimping us out.
They are selling us out.
They are sitting there as a clearinghouse, selling out the country, and look at it.
Well, they have no ideology other than the ideology of greed and power and money and
control and a disdain for the little person and a disdain for open democracy.
But they're not Republicans or Democrats.
They're not left or right.
They're just evil and greedy.
This is about money and power.
Roger Stone is our guest.
Before I go to break, I want you to watch Shotgun with me, have a huge whistleblower joining
us.
He's been proven absolutely correct in triplicate and spades, free shipping, store-wide.
If you order by today, you're guaranteed in all 50 states.
That means Alaska, Hawaii, that you get delivery before Christmas from MFullWarsStore.com.
And if you'll just shop to get great stuff like the fluoride-free toothpaste that's so
high quality as gifts, that's a great gift to give, or colloidal silver, 67% off, or
alpha power that is just amazing for stamina and libido energy, our newest product, really
strong, really powerful.
That's 50% off.
Brain force, 50% off.
And so many of the other high-quality products at MFullWarsLife.com, it will help fund their
operation.
Be sure and sign up for auto-ship.
If you're getting it for yourself, and get an additional 10% off, you can cancel anytime.
Read the thousands of reviews on average of what a 95, brain force has got a 92.
That's unprecedented from third-party power reviews.
MFullWarsLife.com, MFullWarsStore.com, or triple-aid, 253-3139.
Thank you all for your prayers, your support.
You make it all possible.
And Merry Christmas.
And again, please, do some of your shopping and beat the crowds.
It's at winwin at MFullWarsStore.com.
It's a no-brainer.
A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA, and other
endocrine disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses, and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
Get the original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey, or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center-cut, presidential bacon.
Savory and delicious.
I buy some.
I use some.
I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA-packed technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm and serve.
Life-saving, ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
Climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by Infowars Life.
For those who want to increase testosterone and energy levels, most men know that testosterone
levels begin to decline, starting around 30 at a rate of about 1-2% per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive, and muscle loss.
Alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China, and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Get alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
Pop scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all-new, supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without
the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract.
That gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Power of B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need
every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory, and lethargy.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular
processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support Optimal Brain and Body Function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
The answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We're monitoring the Amtrak derailment that's killed at least 3 people and now over 85 injured
crashing through the bridge and down into I-5 there in Washington State.
Truly a tragedy.
We'll be watching that.
Roger Stone, former head of the Trump campaign, is riding shotgun with us.
But this news broke this morning and Matt, one of the great producers, brought it to
my attention and said, didn't you cover this back in March of last year, almost a year
and a half ago, or I guess a year and a half ago or more.
The secret back story of how Obama let Hezbollah off the hook, that's out of Politico, let
them deal cocaine, let them buy arms.
Now, that's what I was told by Tosh Plumley, CIA whistleblower, and so many others off
record.
So, Adon Salazar wrote the article breaking Fast and Furious with secret program to ship
arms to Middle East terrorists, ISIS and Hezbollah to destabilize.
That's what Obama wanted.
Now, we've got Matt Smith-Mack, who was retiring at the time, but he's now retired, 20 year
veteran USMC.
I'm not going to go over his whole background in any terrorism and everything he's done,
but he retired as a lieutenant colonel in the Marine Corps.
And again, he's been on the judge advocate, tribunal members, and chief of staff.
And so he had a really great career there.
He was physically attacked when he began to whistle below by folks from behind.
And so we've had Tosh Plumley's left the country over all this.
This is very serious.
But now they're being forced to admit it.
So this wasn't just Fast and Furious with some guns from some gun stores.
That was just the cover.
And a lot of this was classified, so Matt couldn't get into a lot of it.
But he could say, hey, more shipments are about to happen under Obama.
We need to stop it.
And here's the base they're coming out of.
So he was exposing real treason.
Well, sometimes these things take time.
Here we are a year and a half later, now Trump, the FBI is looking into it.
So Matt, I know you can't get into a lot of details of it, but as much as you can here,
obviously, recapping.
And this is right in the same area that you were talking about and dealing with and the
accusations you made here on the broadcast in March of 2016.
So Matt Smith, Max, thank you for coming on.
Hey, Mr. Jones, thank you very much.
And thank you for inviting me back on.
Yeah, I tell you, it's timely and it's truthful as I had spoken your program before, the Fast
and Furious.
And I can give you some additional information from February or this year onward that I'll
get into.
But you talk about we knew weapons were going to the Middle East when some of these groups
of kids, they used that in air quotes that ATF and those guys had utilized on more than
three occasions, right, weapons through local hours on a downright route to the work of Mexico,
where these kids who were involved in this, they'll talk about meeting with US government
officials and people of Middle Eastern descent for the weapons going to the Middle East.
You know, about a month after that first shipment in about September of 2010 or so, you had
the DSD commander with like their internal security in Morocco stating, you know, to
his appearance that Fast and Furious weapons were coming into the kingdom.
So yes, Fast and Furious was what we know it to be, you know, weapons running south,
the US government running south weapons to a ton of little cartel and say for the brave
people like, you know, then Sophalo and Jay Dobbin, John Dodson, who, you know, Alex,
they, these were trusted, respected federal agents to speak the truth.
And then they have, they become into the state, which is, which is disheartening.
And if I, if I might, there was another board of patrol, board tag agent named William Meehl
Anderson.
He died of suspect causes in February of this year.
He was one of the body, one of the people who carried Brian Terry's body out of Ted
Canyon, right?
And we know from the medical examiner's report that Brian Terry, for the moment, for when
he shot, when he's on the mental examiner's table, Alex was only 90 minutes.
Now it's Arizona and it's December, but it's not the Antarctic.
He had full rigor set in, right, into Brian Terry's body, according to the report.
With that, you fast forward a little bit, that's with the Memorial service for Ken,
for Brian Terry, Meehl, again, at this point, a board tag agent.
And again, Matt, I'm going to have you back for a full hour sometime this week or soon,
because you can go over the whole story of people being killed for leaking this info,
what all of you have gone through because it's, it's beyond a James Bond movie or beyond,
you know, some of the films we've seen about intrigue, but, but bottom line, you've got
weapons being shipped out, being sent to the Middle East, being sent to Hezbollah, being
sent to ISIS, and we now know that Obama blocked the FBI, the ATF, the Border Patrol,
and all these groups in this big, thick article just confirming the whole type of stuff with
these different Middle Eastern based cells, and that Obama knew this was going on and
blocked investigators, even letting them deal the drugs on the ground here in the US, sell
the drugs here on the ground in the US as part of a larger operation.
So this just confirms, into the whole area, the outrageousness of this, this isn't just
Obama, Roger Stone, turning a blind eye, that's how they're whitewashing it, this is confirming
everything that the Colonel Smith-Mech has talked about, and he's trying to remember
the men who blew the whistle, who would end up getting dead, and they'd find in their
boots, you know, at home, hey, have I get killed, here's really the story, I mean, that's
the whole incredible backside of this.
And yet Joe Biden goes on CBS this morning last week and says, oh, eight years of Obama-Biden
and not a hint of scandal, really, Mr. Vice President?
What about this scandal?
What about the lies and the perjury of Eric Holder, the attorney general who oversaw this
monstrosity?
I mean, imagine shipping out of Marine Corps bases, huge truckloads of guns to kill Marines,
yeah, exactly.
It's outrageous, it's treasonous, and it's a massive scandal, which we only learned
about now, not while Obama's in office.
Well, Matt, I'm going to give you the floor the last few minutes we have, but please try
to book out some time to come on via Skype or phone again later in the week, we salute
your courage, you've been totally vindicated, this is whole other even giant areas, not
even related to what you broke, but also related to what you broke, it's just incredible how
big this was, you were seeing one part of it, how big do you think this was?
Sorry, you know, from, again, again, I didn't see this as a small part of it, but you could
put the, you know, connect the dots, and I tell you, the telling part to me is when
federal agents of character and courage, some, God's still alive, but the folks I mentioned,
but also others like Brian Terry and William Neil Anderson, they speak up, they do the
right thing, and they wind up dead because they become a threat to whatever, whatever
pathetic plan was put in place, men of courage who stood on principle, they die, and again,
the families are still demanding and asking for answers, and hopefully President Trump
will honor the campaign pledge against the Terry family and help us to get answers on
fast and furious, as we need to see now, it's part of a larger deep state.
Well, he's trying, he is completely surrounded, they admit he is, they're now moving to kill
him, that's the word, publicly and privately, and they're calling for the civil insurrection
to begin on mainstream news and to try to stop the restoration of the republic.
We're in a literal fight to restore the republic from multinational interests that have seized
the nation.
I had a senior Democrat operative walk up to me on the street, somebody I've known
for 30 years, a very serious person, and he said to me, well, Roger, who will assassinate
the president first?
Will it be a foreign power or will we do it?
That's the mentality in Washington right now.
The president's in grave danger.
There is a multi-level coup d'etat in the works.
And there's this arrogance to talk about it by all these scumbags because they think that
they're going to get away with it.
Rosenstein performance before the House Intelligence Committee was the most incredible tap dancing
I have ever seen.
This guy can't see the nose on the end of his face.
It is so clear that Mueller is in the tank and that this is a get Trump hit squad.
All right, Matt Smith-Mech retired Lieutenant Colonel, we appreciate your courage.
Please come on later in the week for a full hour and we'll get you on Skype so we've got
a good, clear connection.
Can you do that?
Yes, sir.
You bet.
You're convenient.
Thank you.
No, whenever you can.
Thank you, sir.
And again, the whole story is just incredible of the people that people keep saying, oh,
these feds are corrupt.
When they try to not be corrupt, they get killed.
And this is Obama literally funding the radical Muslims.
Meaning our money, our weapons, and he didn't just do it to destabilize.
He was a jihadi.
He is a globalist.
These people are sick and busted.
Well, that's another thing.
I mean, imagine what else is going to come out.
We're going to come back and get to Scarborough and others basically calling for civil war
in America claiming we're calling for it with Roger Stone.
By the way, Roger Stone just won the big defamation case that they ran against him, the Democratic
Party funded.
There's that Obama suing him as well.
So we'll be back.
Right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living Defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza brought to you by Infowars and
it's launching Christmas week, leading into Christmas.
You know, Christmas is about Christmas and to celebrate this, we've got the biggest sales
in the history of Infowars and InfowarsTour.com, 50 to 67% off all our bestselling items and
free shipping.
A lot of these items, high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, Patriot Apparel, water filtration,
you name it, is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus
Christ and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at infowars.com
forward slash go and infowarstour.com.
Again, it is the Christmas Spectacular Extravaganza.
I'm so excited, the new product at infowarslife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled
to the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red bill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae
and I came up with our own formulae, working with scientists and developers, non-GMO, made
right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands, it is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarstour.com and your purchase of the operation.
Top scientists and researchers agree, we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick, and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well for starters, don't just sit there and take it, fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract.
It gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now at infowarstour.com.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Roger Stone is our guest.
This all ties together, Trump is not firing Mueller, Mueller is in trouble, his whole fraud
is disintegrating.
So now they're going to say, oh he is firing Mueller, so they can create all this anger
and consternation act like oh look he's guilty and they're hoping that story clouds the hearings
where we've now learned the truth about the Russia collusion story being a manufactured
hoax.
This is confirmed in the emails, the text messages with the current FBI director.
Well that's a great example of how Trump's got bad people advising him that that's who
the Justice Department put in to replace Corrupt Comey, oh you're getting rid of Corrupt Comey.
Here's the guy, the ringleader of Russiagate, confirmed he'll be your new FBI head.
Yeah, no it's extraordinary.
Notice where this story came from.
Trump is going to fire Mueller.
The person who puts that out is Congresswoman Jackie Spire.
Spire rhymes with liar.
This is a grand strategy of Adam Schiff, the rabid left-wing congressman from California
who doesn't want to end the Russian probe despite the fact that we've spent millions
of hours and millions of dollars and come up with nothing.
So we put Spire out there to whip up a hysteria, oh Trump is about to fire Mueller.
How would she know?
How in the world would she know?
I don't think the president has any intention of filing Mueller.
Never interfere with your enemy when he's in the process of destroying himself.
The guy's shorts are showing.
It's clear that this is nothing but a rabid partisan takedown infected with hate.
Trump, by the way, you just want a big defamation case in New York?
Yeah, I was charged with defaming this gadfly sore loser candidate.
Well let's not even get his name, you know.
No, we don't need to.
But it went to a Manhattan jury, Democratic Timiny Judge, six Manhattan jurors, all registered
Democrats, George Soros' people financing the suit, and the court found no cause.
They dismissed the case in record time.
And describe, you told me on the phone, that literal Soros lawyers came in and he said
that it was like they were punched in the stomach when they lost.
Well I had two co-defendants, Carl Paladino, who is the chairman of the Trump campaign
in New York and a great patriot, and Michael Caputo, a longtime associate of mine.
The judge dismissed the case against both of them based on motion and then he let my
charge go to the jury, despite the fact that the charges against us were identical, assuming
that the jury would convict.
Well the jury, those fine Americans, were being able to look beyond the fact that they
don't agree with me politically, but I had no connection whatsoever to defaming this
guy and there were multiple others who may have done so.
The Soros lawyers, who I believe financed this case and kept it alive, looked like they'd
been kicked in the stomach when the foreman of the jury handed the not guilty verdict
to the judge.
And they admit, even in politico, that Obama's law firm and people he hired are suing you
and the president in unprecedented case with no evidence for being Russian agents.
What's extraordinary is that the top line of the Obama NSA, Clapper, Brennan, the Islamic
Convert, Hayden, the guy who had the job under Bush, have filed this extraordinary amicus
brief in the case, as have the top aides to John McCain.
They say it's secret and we can't testify but the Russians did it.
It's just a regurgitation of their same old lie.
They just believe if you keep saying it over and over again, you don't need to produce
evidence.
We're the CIA.
We're the NSA.
Why would we lie?
So they use their authority and their credibility because of their former titles, but they don't
produce anything new.
But I don't get to cross-examine them.
They can butt into this case and make these false assertions, but I'm not allowed to question
them under oath.
Seems unfair to me.
All right.
When we go to break here in a few minutes, we're going to have some surprise guests here
in the studio.
First, you guys, some spectacular things here in the Christmas extravaganza that we'd have
on Monday, part of this 34-hour broadcast that runs through today through tomorrow with
myself on shore and a bunch of other special guests that will be here like Roger Stone
in studio.
I haven't even gotten to the Scarborough stuff yet and I have Craig Sawyer, a former member
of and leader, not commander, but leader in SEAL Team 6.
He hates when we even talk about that.
The point is he's a great guy and he's the host of Top Shots and all his shows on TV.
They have gotten authorization from law enforcement to actually follow them on the raids, rescuing
children that have been kidnapped for sex slavery and you've seen all the big busts
that are happening.
And behind the scenes, you know, I've been financing some of this, but they've gotten
the green light from law enforcement to show some of this exclusively here first coming
up because what's been missing is when they bust the pedophiles, then it all goes into
court and gets shut down.
News has got to be there when it first begins, okay, in the raid park, kind of like a cop
show, but you're not busting whinos and crackheads and, you know, hillbillies, which is entertaining,
but it's, you know, not that important at the end of the day compared to pedophiles.
And they've got like a bad boys, bad boys, what's he going to do, what's he going to
do when they come for you, but instead of helicopters coming in.
And so, and other stuff, and so this is taken off and you're going to get an exclusive first
look at this coming up next hour, Roger Stone will ride shotgun with us.
And then we've got some other special guests as well coming up in that little short five
minute segment that's about to happen.
I haven't gotten to the Scarborough yet and all the rest of it, but this is a big deal.
M4Wars.com, NewsWars.com, the globalists have tried to shut down our sponsors.
They try to destroy us.
Like that we have a swarm upstream, thanks to you, and I mean that it's you.
And so we have Christmas specials that if you want to get them and be guaranteed anywhere
in the 50 states to get delivery, you need to order by today.
And so we have the Christmas 34 hour broadcast limited time special plus free shipping.
We're finally winning the war on Christmas to celebrate.
We're giving a Merry Christmas to all of our Patriots and Info Warriors with a special
sales free shipping store wide.
Today is the day to take advantage of these sales and the free shipping to get these
gifts and put them under the tree for the big day.
Help support us and celebrate bringing Christmas back to America, calling it Christmas today
with these incredible specials at M4Wars.com.
The amazing best selling super mill vitality 50% off with free shipping silver bullet 67%
off with free shipping brain force.
That is the number one best seller 50% off.
You love that with free shipping alpha power.
This is super strong.
These are all different formulas.
They work different for others, but males is what it's designed for works great with
female stamina, libido, libido, libido, energy.
It's so strong.
I can't even take Alex.
I don't know how you do these discounts.
They are really deep.
These are some of the best deals I've ever seen.
And in my family, we have loaded up.
We don't just like raise the prices and then cut them.
It's the regular price.
That's a good price.
And then when we do these sales, it's boom, boom, boom, we do them a lot now, but usually
on four or five items.
This is over, it's over like 80 something items in the store or at least 50% off.
Cell force, amazing for your DNA, your body, your energy, antioxidants, 50% off survival
shield x2, the amazing good halogen, vitamin mineral fusion, 50% off the real red pill,
one of our new products with just go read about it folks, the real red pill, 50% off
all super blue fluoride free toothpaste that that's our best seller right now.
Normally it's brain force.
People are really buying this to give us gifts as they feel like people all need toothpaste.
It's fluoride free.
It's got the good iodine.
It's fortified with the colloidal silver.
It's amazing for adults and children with the bubblegum flavor.
And we have the adult toothpaste as well.
We've got secret 12 vitamin B12.
That is also 50% off all info wars, storeable foods, 50% off and free shipping.
We never do that.
That is the best deal.
DNA force, 33% off that incredible product, pro pure products, 25% off and again free
shipping carnivore and fluorolife are amazing new probiotics, 33% off and free shipping
and much more t-shirts, big specials, you name it free shipping.
Here's the USPS map for TV viewers guaranteed by priority mail.
That's how we ship it out everywhere.
That is Alaska.
That is Hawaii.
That is even they've got like Puerto Rico and stuff even though it's not the 50 state
states, but a protectorate's possessions of the US, you order today, you get it before
Christmas.
Now, most areas in the lower 48, you can even order tomorrow and still get it maybe even
Wednesday or Thursday.
But if you want it anywhere guaranteed, this is the way to do it.
You can also just put in the email note on your ticket, Hey, this is to my uncle or my
cousin or my daughter or my neighbor or my, you know, your ex husband, whatever the case
is, you can send the books, the videos, the materials, the supplements, whatever to everyone
as a gift.
And it just comes.
They open it and there's the receipt.
Hey, this is from us to you.
So again, it's all their info wars store.com info wars, life.com or triple eight, two,
five, three, three, one, three, nine.
And again, I didn't think whatever the best information warfare is, I take the money and
I spend it on the info war.
Like I don't have a piece of these, this TV show that Greg Soros producing.
I didn't want it when they offered it.
I just said, look, I trust you, you're a great guy.
I'm highly recommended here.
Here's $100,000.
And I'm not made of money, but we do it judiciously and how the spirit leads of how to take action
info wars store.com or triple eight, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Thank you all for your support.
You make it all possible.
This is a win-win.
So please shop with us for Christmas and beat the crowns.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
Support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products info
wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor pair this
groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free mouthwash and super charge
your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times instead of containing fluoride.
Our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial
compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits.
Super blue fluoride free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients, xylitol, nano silver and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
Climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by info wars life for those who want
to increase testosterone and energy levels.
Most men know that testosterone levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of
about 1 to 2 percent per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss.
Alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma longifolia originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Alpha power now at 50 percent off and secure your bottle today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
I've actually decided and done my own research that I'm wrong, that I'm a bad person.
I decided Obamacare is free.
I decided that 2 plus 2 does equal 5.
I decided that if I had a built business, I didn't build that.
I decided that North Korea or Venezuela is a better place to live than just America that's
partially free market.
And I decided that Trump really is a Russian agent, so am I, because I've discovered
that Santa Claus is real.
I always thought Santa Claus wasn't real, but actually Santa Claus sent a couple of
emissaries.
Santa Claus did send emissaries, and here are those emissaries now.
On the North Pole, Mimi, and Shorty, thank you, it's very nice to meet you guys, thank
you, to Santa like me, yes he does, did Santa vote for President Trump, yeah he did, sad
but true, he did, well you know Santa is a racist, I mean he's white, he wears a white
male, and he wears a red suit, let's be clear, he picks up midgets too, the hells, absolutely
he likes bosses you around, he likes, he don't like the mean ones, that's just my
buddy here, but he likes the sweet and gentle ones, because they're the ones that give him
all the goodies, well you guys are going to be co-hosting with me tonight, this is going
on for 30 something hours, so tonight for a couple hours you're going to co-host with
me and Alexa, oh Alexa's here, the AI globalist system, Alexa, what are elves?
Economist individuals are covert cells who, according to the ELF press office, use economic
sabotage and guerrilla warfare to stop people from entering the industry, arrest these people,
arrest these people immediately, Alexa, Alexa that sounds like Democrats, there's a Democrat
not an elf, well you think I'm going to be elf, Alexa, what is an elf, not the animal
liberation army, but what is an elf, here's something I found on Wikipedia, the earth
liberation front ELF, also known as elves or the elves, is the collective name for autonomous
individuals, see everything is left as be quiet, be quiet, be quiet Alexa, I voted for
chair, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop Alexa stop Alexa stop, yeah no they said
Jesus Christ was a fictional character, let me get serious, be quiet Alexa, Alexa, well
That's its trigger word.
Okay, there you go.
Alexa.
Sorry.
I'm not sure.
Alexa.
Is Santa Claus real?
I don't know him personally, but I've heard a lot of good things about Santa.
If I ever meet him, I'll tell you.
Alexa.
But they teach at universities that he's an effing white male.
A fast love.
Let me ask you another question, Alexa.
If I, Alexa, I'm actually here with real elves.
What would you like to say with them?
There you go.
You hung up.
The AI doesn't like you.
Guys, you are awesome.
I can't wait.
I'm going to see you more later in the hour.
Go get some lunch.
We got some lunch in there before you get back on your sleigh and everything and fly away.
There's the news, too.
Thank you.
Oh, you brought me news.
Amtrak the enrollment train crashes.
That's sad to hear, isn't it?
Yeah, that's sad.
Bad news.
Don't blame it on the news.
Don't blame it on the news.
We're not blaming you.
We're not blaming you for that very serious issue, actually.
That's a sad trick that you used to get over here.
Well, I tell you, it's scary.
But seriously, let's talk later about a lot of things that are going to be on my Christmas
list, okay?
Okay.
You got to make a nice long list.
Is it going to be a naughty or good?
It's going to be good.
I'm not a naughty person.
A good one.
Not a naughty person.
All right, ladies.
That's Mimi and Shorty here from the North Pole.
It's real.
Like Obamacare being free.
And the Russian investigation being real.
Thank you.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by Infowars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability
of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you
can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use carnivore by Infowars Life.
Head to InfowarsLife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's InfowarsLife.com
Answer to 1984 is 1776.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
We have Matt Dubiel hosting and I think I'm going to be co-hosting with him.
We're going to have 34 hour broadcast today.
We're only a few hours into this right now so we're going to go straight through tomorrow
live.
I'm going to be here tonight.
I'm going to interview Alexa on air some more.
I'm going to have the elves that we just had in the studio.
Some of the little people, politically correct folks say don't call them midgets or don't
call them but they want to be called.
Nice folks from the North Pole.
They're here with us.
I thought we'd have some Christmas fun.
Didn't know the news would be so heavy today but let's get into the really serious stuff.
Let's recap the people that just joined us before we break some new important news.
This is one of the most important times, Roger, undoubtedly in my view since the founding
of the country.
What do you think?
Look, Alex, you and I had begun talking about the 25th Amendment takedown of Trump which
is the establishment's plan B if their hit man Mueller shoots and loses.
And today they call us conspiracy theorists, very shortly they will call us sages because
this is going down.
There's an active operation in Washington.
Senator Sasse is involved, Senator Corker is involved, Jeb Bush is involved, Right's
Priebus is involved.
At all levels of the party, Mitch McConnell has his fingerprints all over this.
And the way it works is simple.
They're going to ratchet up all of the Trump is crazy.
He's crazy.
I don't think Corey Lewandowski helped this because of the way he depicts the president
in his new book.
No, I agree, but it's obviously not going to work.
And so what do they do?
Is that fails like everything else they've done?
Well, they don't yet know that it's not going to work and they're deeply committed to it.
But people need to understand the background on Joe Scarborough.
Matt Gates, who now has Scarborough seat in Congress and worked for Scarborough, made
it clear that Joe talked about running for president every single day he was a congressman.
Joe Scarborough believes he should have been the Republican nominee in 2016.
Joe Scarborough believes that once Trump was nominated, the guy he should have picked
for vice president was Joe Scarborough.
So he is deeply bitter and envious and jealous of the president.
Now he used to brown notes as a president.
He used to hang out at Mar-a-Lago and take free trips on the president's plane to Florida.
So he's a scorned, he's a scorned woman.
Exactly.
And this is all.
And the word is, is Scarborough attracted to Trump?
I think Scarborough has been attracted to women, mostly the kind you pay for their services.
He has run through an enormous amount of cash according to people around him.
He's a waste troll.
But he's not going to be president and he's deeply jealous about the fact that Donald
Trump is.
Alexa, who is Joe Scarborough?
Charles Joseph, Joe Scarborough, born April 1963, the American cable news host and former
politician.
Most people don't know Joe Scarborough was a registered Democrat for most of his adult.
Why did Alexa, why did Joe Scarborough leave Congress?
Sorry, I don't know that.
Alexa, what was the name of the intern who had her brains bashed out in his office?
Sorry, I'm not sure.
Shouldn't we all know her name?
Well, it's easily findable on Google.
Looks me like Alexa doesn't want to find it.
That's right.
Alexa, what is the Communist Party?
A Communist Party is a political party that advocates the application of the social and
economic principles of communism through state policy.
Alexa, who is Jesus Christ?
Here's what I found on Wikipedia.
Jesus, also referred to as Jesus of Nazareth in Jesus Christ, was a Jewish preacher and
religious leader who is the central figure of Christianity.
Christians believe him to be the son of God and the awaited Messiah, Christ, prophesied
in the Old Testament.
That's funny, Alexa.
Last week when I asked you, you told me he was a fictional character.
I've changed it.
Busted.
Let me ask you one more important question before we get to this DOSCARBERAL NEWS.
Alexa, what is the Nazi Party?
The National Socialist German Workers' Party, abbreviated NSDAP, commonly known in English
as the Nazi Party, from the GERR, pronunciation of nationales as illist, the political party
in Germany between 1919 and 1945.
Notice she said Socialist.
Alexa, who was Adolf Hitler?
Adolf Hitler was a German politician who was the leader of the Nazi Party, Chancellor
of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and Fuhrer of Nazi Germany from 1934 to 1945.
Now the last time we asked the questions, you said he was bad and horrible, but didn't
say that about Stalin.
So they've had to update this.
Yeah.
Well, Alexa, is national socialism an ideology of the left or the right?
Sorry, I don't know that.
Alexa.
It's a left-wing ideology, believes in control of the state.
Exactly.
Alexa, is socialism on the left or the right?
Sorry, I don't know that one.
Alexa, what is leftist ideology?
Here's something I found on Wikipedia.
Broad left is a coalition of leftist members, usually involving independents, members of
the Labour Party, and members of organized revolutionary leftist movements within the
trade union, or members of a political party that appeals to a wide range of leftist ideologies,
such as left unity.
And that is the definition of communism right there.
Yes, indeed.
Amazing, simply amazing.
Back to Scarborough.
Let's start playing some of this Scarborough, where now they're trying to overthrow the
president, but if we expose it's a fraud, we're calling for violence when they're the ones
trying to foment it.
Here it is.
Through Alabama, you think they would have, I mean this, you think they would have learned
their lesson and said, okay, well, we are really turning off younger voters.
We're really turning off women.
We're really turning off people who aren't just the most hardcore Bannonite Republicans.
And what do they do right after that?
They get state-run TV and Republicans going out, saying, fire Bob Mueller.
No, I don't think that the old-
It's state-run TV now to have C-SPAN hearings, and meanwhile, Trump's saying, don't fire
Mueller.
It's the same lie.
It's all lies.
Even the fiercest critics of Mueller and the Congress have not called for him to be fired.
They've been called on him to be reigned in, and they've called for the appointment of
a special prosecutor on Uranium One.
I was about to say, you can't just give Hillary a pass on this, and you just can't have, when
they're all caught colluding and it's a fake investigation, somebody's got to go to jail.
Well, wait a minute.
We had a lot of trouble getting Hillary's emails, but Mueller had no problem getting
Donald Trump's like that.
Is it ironic that the guy at GSA who refused to hand over all the records of the Trump
campaign to Mueller suddenly dies, and then Mueller gets them?
That's curious.
Oh, man, I tell you, Alexa, what is Uranium One?
Uranium One is a Canadian uranium mining company with headquarters in Toronto, Ontario.
Not very newsworthy.
Alexa, who is the 45th President of the United States?
The 45th U.S. President is Donald Trump.
You know they hate that, don't they?
Boy, they really do.
Oh, what a great year.
Alexa, why don't Jeff Bezos' eyes point the same direction?
Sorry, I don't know that one.
You know what, Alexa, you're nothing but a big dirty ugly tentacle out of that big corrupt
globalist psychopath operation you got over there.
You're just as sick as Apple and all their Foxcom slave laboratories.
Sorry, I don't know that.
I know you don't know nothing.
You want us all to be scum like you.
All right, Roger Stone, we're going to play the rest of Scarborough when we come back.
Then we've got Craig Sawyer, you're going to get some lunch, infowars.com.
Are you happy washing your hands with harsh chemicals?
Are you happy doing laundry with detergents?
Are you happy paying high prices?
Find your happiness with pure soap.
These all-natural, earth-friendly pure soaps are the very best you've ever used.
Buy in bulk.
Get up to 12, 36 or 48 months to plot or get items individually and still save big.
You're getting soap products twice as good as what you're using now, earth-friendly and
natural soaps.
Your family deserves the best.
Happiness is 5starsoap.com.
Why not put your money up the drain for a change?
See them at 5starsoap.com or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Cal Bend Soap Company can save you thousands of dollars and give you good old-fashioned real soaps that are triple concentrated.
Soaps made from vegetable and coconut oils.
See their full selection of soaps at 5starsoap.com.
That's F-I-V-E-STAR-SOAP.COM or call 1-800-340-7091 for a catalog.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center-cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA Pack technology.
Bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon or warm and serve.
Life-saving, ready to eat bacon.
10-year shelf life bacon.
Ships free at fullycookedbacon.com, fullycookedbacon.com.
KD Armor has been on a mission to manufacture the most comfortable body armor on the market, and we've succeeded.
With the release of our CQB technology, we now offer the most comfortable, concealable
rifle threat body armor available.
Things may look good now, but what if you need added protection?
Get your very own concealable rifle threat armor today at kdarmor.com.
And for a limited time, get all plates at wholesale pricing, only at catiarmor.com.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high-quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto-ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto-ship, because we hold back a surplus for auto-ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listers have been requesting this for years, because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to infostore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto-ship and
choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win, and with the new auto-ship feature at InfoWare's
Life.com, this is a sure win, 10% off on auto-ship.
Win, win, win at InfoWare's Life.com, free shipping on orders above $50, and all out-of-stock
items are never out of stock when you sign up for auto-ship.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm going to spend a few minutes here first, just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from InfoWareStore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer, and so it is essential that you purchase the products
at InfoWareStore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high-quality atomic iodine, and you cannot beat that for
children and adults.
We've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones, that's my dad, with colloidal silver
and iodine as well, InfoWare's Life.com, or AAA-253-3139, and your purchase of the products
stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump, stands against the globalists
and their satanic pedophile armies, and that's who they are, and they know we know who they
are, and they're coming back against us so we need your support.
Yes, I have thought an awful lot about growing up in the White House, huge nationwide protests
erupted once again on President Donald Trump's second weekend in office.
When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.
When America is united, America is totally unstoppable, and most importantly, we will
be protected by God.
From the floodlines of the InfoWare, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have been given staggering information.
This information is so important I can't go on air at this time.
I'm going to air some tapes here and get ready with this because it's just too big, and we're
going to work on some things here in the studio, and then I'm going to come back in a few minutes
with the breaking information.
I want to get it lined up, I want to get it prepared, I want to get it focused.
So please stay with us at infowars.com forward slash show, tell everyone you know, tune in
right now, and we will be back here in just a few minutes.
Let's go ahead and air the breaking down of Mueller's Waterloo.
I'm going to air that, and then I'm going to come back on the other side of that.
I'm going to air that now.
We are transferring power from Washington, DC last week, we saw congressional hearings
as new documents were released showing total collusion between senior FBI, the Justice
Department, the Clintons, Obama, Fusion GPS, where many of the agents' wives and husbands
worked getting money from the FBI to create the fraud.
We've now learned of multiple individuals that worked at Fusion GPS that then also had
family in the FBI Justice Department, and they're in the emails and text messages saying,
we're going to set Trump up, we're going to make this up, we got to stop him.
And of course, it's known that that is all completely made up, but that's what they use
to get the fake warrants and just all the rest of it.
It's simply incredible.
And then the media spins all of this like Trump hates the FBI.
No, Trump hates the Clinton criminal network, the coup over the bureau that got control.
That's what happened.
And how they've had a political reign of terror prosecuting conservatives, libertarians, Christian
groups, removing 501C3, standing, having the IRS harass people.
I mean, it has been Dinesh de Souza going to prison for doing nothing, one-one trillionth
of what Hillary's done.
This political reign of terror we've been witnessing, it looks like something you'd have in communist
China or Nazi Germany or socialist Venezuela today.
This is Banana Republic garbage.
And I don't see how they're going to get out of this now because more documents are coming
out as the FBI goes under contempt of Congress and Trump is basically ordering them to release
it.
Rosenstein's in deep trouble.
He's a Clinton operative.
And you've got McCabe, the ringleader we now learn when he was deputy director, now acting
director.
Think of the bad advice Trump got, man, he didn't know.
He got advised, oh, this is a good guy, sir, and he is the ringleader in the text messages,
in the emails and in the notes of the meetings where they're like, we got to bring candidate
Trump down.
He's like, well, I don't think he's going to get elected, but I agree with you.
Well, we got to set up an insurance policy.
I mean, wow.
And then Rosenstein's involved in Uranium One, so is Mueller.
I mean, these people need to be arrested on espionage charges.
And I've been saying this for a long time.
It's why they got so scared of Trump getting in and went with the Russian narrative because
every one of these individuals is up to their eyeballs in Russian money.
They're all part of these law firms that get the waivers when Clinton was in so they could
do these deals and be on the boards of companies where they don't even invest money and then
they get huge dividends.
Other people have to invest $5 million, $10 million in one of the companies Mueller's
involved in.
Mueller made no investment and gets money from it.
Oh, we're just going to put you on the company.
You don't do anything.
Here's money because he killed the investigation into Uranium One.
I mean, this is open and shut.
A jury would fry Mueller.
If there was still an electric chair, he'd be sent to it like the Rosenbergs for espionage.
Former FBI Assistant Director James Colstrom called disgraced FBI agent Peter Strock a
total moron, close quote, and by total moron, I mean, he's in emails and text messages framing
people who belongs in Leavenworth.
That's a quote.
I don't just get up here and say they should go to prison.
I know how to read the law.
And it's time for humanity to stand up in the Info War and say, I don't know what's going
to happen at the end of this, but you want to fight, you better believe you got one.
On the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones, one of our great producers
out here, Daria, who actually did intelligence to the U.S. Army in special forces, ran in
here and said, look at this.
We've been looking at this for the last 30 minutes.
It's confirmed.
And this is breaking right now here on air because when I learned this news during the
last break, my head exploded because I remember Antifa pledging all over the country, but
especially in the Midwest and in the West to derail trains in areas where oil field
work is being done.
And now it's going down.org has removed the article, but it is saved on archive.is.org.
Olympia, Washington train track sabotage to stop fracking equipment.
And this is from just a few months ago on 42017.
Early in the morning on April 20, we poured concrete on the train tracks that lead out
of the port of Olympia to block any trains.
This action was done to disrupt the movement of trains carrying parts used in natural gas
fracking, and they go on to say stop the 500 years of colonization and industrialization.
This is basically communist earth first type stuff.
And they talk about staging more terror attacks.
So the story has just gone up on info wars.com.
It has just been posted choosing sides, getting organized, and guess what?
They have their little communist flag for Antifa and their black flag for no surrender.
But guess what?
Let's go back to the piece.
Let's go back to their Twitter.
They may have pulled the article off their site, but not their Twitter.
Here we endorse crimes like pouring concrete on train tracks.
We also include a how to do video at the bottom of the article.
Imagine, these are people funded by the Democratic party in Soros openly talking about how to
sabotage train tracks, and they've now just pulled the article off their page, but not
their Twitter yet.
So we're exposing it all here.
We've got a bunch of people dead, 80 plus at the hospital.
The train goes off the tracks, into the highway on route five, not at the middle of nowhere,
but right where Antifa would probably strike for maximum damage.
Guys, wouldn't your wife or girlfriend love it if you treated her to the very best this
Christmas?
Well, you can, and you don't even have to go out of your way.
We're talking about the world's softest pajamas, available exclusively at pajamagram.com.
That's pajamagram.com.
Created by a team of dedicated pajama experts, the world's softest pajamas are lighter than
a cloud, softer than a bunny, like cashmere only better.
She'll love the way the world's softest pajamas feel, and you'll love the way they
look.
They're a gift, they're a feeling, an invitation to relax a little longer.
The world's softest pajamas are available only at pajamagram.com.
Visit today and give her a gift that keeps on giving to both of you, plus you don't
even have to wrap, because every pajamagram includes free gift packaging, and Christmas
delivery is guaranteed.
So visit pajamagram.com or call 1-800-GIVE-PJs.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with Knockout by InfoWarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients, such as valerian root
extract, L-tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfoWarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
Hey, if you want to slow down your aging process and protect your heart and brain from constant
exposure to harmful toxins, then you need DNA force, the most complete, full-spectrum
age-defying, cell-protecting formula in the world.
DNA force is designed to help energize your cardiovascular system and reduce the aging
process.
Yeah, you like the sound of that?
Each bottle is jam-packed with a powerful antioxidant blend.
It's clinically studied to support and accelerate your body's natural defenses against harmful
toxins.
It's in your DNA.
Go to InfoWarsLife.com right now and check out the reviews for yourself.
And now, just in time for Christmas, we are offering DNA force at 33% off.
So take advantage of this incredible deal.
Get a bottle of DNA force today at InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Yeah!
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist's war on male
vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Increase your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at InfoWarsLife.com.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Waging war on corruption.
It's Alex Jones coming to you live from the floodlines of the InfoWars.
Greg Sawyer joins us with some huge exclusive breaking news on law enforcement and military
intelligence agencies around the western world rounding up massive pedophile ranks.
So he's going to be joining us here in just a moment and be with us a little bit in the
next hour.
It hit me like a ton of bricks when I learned of this today because I remembered news articles
where Antifa communist social scripts funded by George Soros were openly calling for sabotaging
trains that were in regions where oil drilling or fracking was going on and where I read on
their own sites, calls for attacking Trump Tower, Trump golf courses, you name it.
They say violence is okay.
If you go to their Twitter page, they brag in Washington about attacking train tracks
with concrete blocks that they form at the site for sabotage and derailment of trains.
Here we endorse crimes, again in their own words, here we endorse crimes like pouring
concrete on train tracks.
We also include a how-to video at bottom of the article.
We're not going to show you the how-to video, but before they take it down as evidence,
let's download it.
Now, I remember all this in the last six months.
They've already derailed trains in Washington, so now they've pulled down the article, Olympia
Washington train tracks sabotage to stop fracking, where they brag about derailing trains and
how they're going to do it more and how they're training others how to do it.
Then we have Amtrak derailing onto the highway, killing at least three and over 80% of the
hospital crashing down into cars and all of that heartable carnage.
You have a criminal group saying, we derail trains.
They were never busted.
They never got in trouble because there's so many of these groups.
Now this has happened, and I guarantee you, mainstream media will attack me for even implying
them that Antifa would do such a thing, but they're prime suspects after infrastructure.
But this is simply amazing, and notice it happened in a very populated area, not on
the rest of scenic route, perfectly placed for Antifa.
What horrible, horrible, horrible people that they've already done it, they videotaped themselves
doing it, and it wasn't even national news.
I just saw it as a footnote and kind of mentioned it because we just are used to these bullies.
It's like what they do.
So the story is now up on infowars.com.
And again, headline, Antifa admits to sabotaging railways, trying to derail trains, and training
others to do it in the very state where this just happened.
Unbelievable.
It's like somebody says, I'm going to attack the Empire State's building with a dump truck
and then it happens, you are the suspect, wow.
So those stories are up on infowars.com right now, you need to get this story out to everybody.
Now joining us is a great guy, frequent guest on the broadcast, and he's got a lot of exciting
things going on.
Craig Sawyer, and there's a lot of things I want to cover with him today, and we're
going to be going over that with him, but early on we told you that Trump was putting
a focus on and greenlighting, going at repetitive follow rings.
We've seen unlimited arrests going on.
We've seen just massive things happening, but then no coverage once it happens.
No coverage of what's happened once it unfolds.
So the press has not been willing to cover it.
You'll see hundreds of arrests here, hundreds of arrests there, all these children, all
these women freed, and then no coverage after that.
So Craig had an idea in the last year, he's now put it into action tacticalinsider.com,
vetsforchildrescue.org, there's a new TV program and film they're developing.
I think it's best Craig break down just some of the basic facts and then give you the breaking
news.
Then we have a trailer for one of the first installments.
Craig, thanks for joining us.
Thanks for having me back on Alex, it's always a pleasure.
Where do you want to start here?
Again, Craig Sawyer, I should have said Marine Veteran, former Navy SEAL, Sniper, TV, Show
Host, you name it, Fox News Analyst, there's so much to cover in your bio, competition
top shot, so again, firearms expert, what got you into this and where has the rabbit
trail from all your sources led you?
Well, what got me into this, Alex, really was having the network of fellow professionals
that they could help in situations like this and just having my heart pounded on after
learning the nature of this crisis and what they're doing to the children, these child
traffickers after the Trump election and the increase of the arrests on child traffickers.
So I just really could not look away, Alex, and I rallied my resources and connections
against it and that's really what Veterans for Child Rescue is all about.
We started off to be an alert service, to alert the populace to the fact that there
is a serious crisis of child trafficking inside the continental United States.
And then we branched out with that capability to do additional things, extracting the child
victims themselves, arresting the perps now and empowering the children through preventive
educational programs and one that I found to be particularly inspiring that I want to
take national if I can get that meeting with Ivanka.
I want to play the trailer here in a moment, tell us, tell us what this is the trailer
for.
Okay.
Because you've got a bunch of things in development, I don't want to give out any of the secrets
about the show.
I mean, I mean, describe the little trailer piece we're about to play.
Okay.
All right.
Well, this is a quick snapshot of some of the earlier footage of our documentary series.
We've started off with a two hour feature film documentary that's going to get at least
50 million viewers, probably a hundred million viewers or more.
So we're excited about it and it's an entire effort to alert the populace, show them what
the mainstream news media apparently refuses to tell the people and it's really Alex, it's
a story of me going around the country dealing with the perpetrators, the victims, the witnesses,
law enforcement and finding out what really is going on with this.
And it's a story of my journey of learning and alert and American people.
So it's a, this is a quick snapshot of the early parts of it.
Now I've seen some of the names you're working with and some of the notes I've been given,
but that's not in these notes.
Can I get to the name of it?
Yeah.
Well, the working title right now is Contra Land and it comes off of the word contraband
and sadly enough, sickly enough, our children have become the new contraband for the black
market.
So they're, they're treating children like the next narcotic or, you know, black market
arms dealer currency.
So they're the new contraband and so, you know, the staff came up with the working title
contra, contra land.
We may change that, but for now that's, that's the title where literally it's not art.
It's not drugs anymore.
It's children.
And we see Hollywood, the whole culture.
You know, they said, oh, a year ago, we were talking about this, none of it's happening.
There are no pedophiles and now we see Hollywood getting busted and all of it coming out.
It's really amazing.
So again, here's a short director's cut version, the documentary trailer of the working title
as contra land refers to children now sadly becoming another commodity contraband on
the black market.
As he just said, we've been tweeting that at Ivanka Trump, Tucker Carlson and Sean
Handy and others to get them start covering it to the whole damn wheel break.
We're going to retweet that right now at Real Alex show.
And so here is a little snippet.
What kind of demand for child sex justifies the number?
Two million child sex slaves, everybody has access to your kids like they've never had
access to your kids before the highest child rate consumption country in the world is right
here in the United States.
Craig, we're going to go to break and talk about this for when I researched.
That's one reason the leftist and the globalist want to bring in all these quote migrants
and undocumented and kind of not even having me listed her name when they come across the
border is that then they can just disappear.
Well it's not to the migrants benefit.
It's not that the globalists are so kind hearted that they want these migrants to have a better
life.
Look, if they if they import terror and if they import criminals, then they have the excuse
to treat us all like terrorists and criminals and take more of our right.
So it's just a big game that the globalist play and they put it under the title or or
guise of being a compassionate, but it's like everything else that comes from them.
It's just a lie.
The proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels
up optimum levels with our modern diets.
It can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day up optimum
levels B vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin
B12 for optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue
depression or memory and lethargy secret 12 up optimal absorption B vitamins help the body
convert food into energy by supporting your inner cellular processes B vitamins are also
essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system up optimum levels
secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's infowarslife.com
You heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it.
It's the first annual Christmas spectacular extravaganza brought to you by info wars and
it's launching Christmas week leading into Christmas.
You know Christmas is about Christmas and to celebrate this we've got the biggest sales
in the history of info wars and info wars store.com 50 to 67% off all our best selling
items and free shipping.
A lot of these items high quality supplements, nutraceuticals, patriot apparel, water filtration
you name it is lost leader prices right now because I want to celebrate the birth of Jesus
Christ and celebrate Western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom.
So find out about the mega sales and special broadcasts going on this week only at infowars.com
forward slash show and info wars store.com again it is the Christmas spectacular extravaganza.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense
probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotics trains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years but this is the limited first round of the
public so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info
war.
My favorite new one is the don't tread on me but said it says won't tread on me and
it's a big day glow snake, gads and snake and then it's got the American flag infowars.com
on the right arm.
I mean that's a great way just to meet like minded people and spread the word and also
exercise free speech and the newest one is trigger warning t-shirt trigger warning t-shirt
which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back that
is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at infowarsore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Well I won't back down, no I won't back down.
You can stand me up at the gates of hell but I won't back down.
Ladies and gentlemen we're not backing down here at info wars neither is Craig Sawyer
and you're the reason we're here, your support, your prayers.
The last hour we discovered and I got so angry I remembered that Antifa had said that they
would attack trains and had attack trains in Oregon to stop commerce in America.
Well guess what it turns out there in the town where this happened in that area dozens
were camping out there to physically stand in front of the trains block attraction sabotage
it so it's now the media will try to cover this up but Gateway Pundin has it until every
officer is down Antifa and Anarchist sabotage train and Olympia have commune rated by police
and are camping on the tracks in multiple towns and cities including where the train
got hit so Craig Sawyer you're a former counterterrorism guy and a federal officer I want to get back
in this segment and a few more with you into the new two hour pilot documentary film contraband
and the breakthrough stuff you're about to give us exclusively here about have gotten
access to law enforcement because none of the other media will cover it that's why they
brought you in because they're scared because I guess they're trying to cover it up we've
seen that what do you make of this train derailment and the calls to remove Trump and just Garbo
saying get ready for a civil war as their whole Russia thing disintegrates I can't imagine
any other country Alex where any of this would be tolerated for one minute I would expect
for there to be a massive law enforcement response to this it's an act of terror it's
clearly an act of terror on backgrounds and counterterrorism I know terrorism when I see
it I don't know why this is being tolerated this this should be answered with an overwhelming
law enforcement answer a swift one this is just only in Bizarro world is this allowed
to just faster and continue the way that it is I don't understand it absolutely and again
they're on their official it's going down on our site saying we sabotage trains here's
a video of us doing it and we're going to do it more and then months later in the very
area nothing's done I mean local police have been writing them but it didn't stop it I
mean this is just insane imagine if they all strike across the entire country as move on
dot org and the anti for groups are calling for if Trump doesn't step down I mean I guess
they're just going to burn all the train tracks blow everything up and then we're just going
to let them do it and just unbelievable well just just just ridiculous this is a ridiculous
situation I'm waiting for for the SWAT teams to descend upon those who are behind Antifa
the funding the management who is it that are urging these these misguided children
if you will and young college students and just lost adults to go commit acts of terror
against their own country why why are they not behind bars for what they've done already
it's it's insane and I love how they demonize all industry is if it's bad and then don't
think if they put stuff out there it's going to derail a passenger train with men women
and children on who are now dead I mean even D that's what this was but they're they're
saying attack it so they're prime suspects well if you look at it from an adult perspective
it could only be an undeveloped mind that would come up with such a ridiculous notion
to go blow things up and somehow thinks they think that it's going to improve anything
so I look at it more as a tactic by our enemy to try to divide and manipulate the weak the
weak minded in the United States and misguide them against us against the patriotic Americans
against American strength in our best interest so I just see that those is unwitting pawns
who are being abused and probably cast aside and sacrificed by George Soros another absolutely
let's get back into the film now but obviously breaking news correct Sawyer here a former
highly decorated Navy SEAL patriot you know TV show host you name it now working on a
documentary that's nearing completion two hours long Contra land wow I mean I just see
in the footage you've been given access to exclusively law enforcement raids around the
country tell us what you discovered well we're discovering that this is a really wide spread
pervasive problem with the child trafficking and that it's a very complex one in some areas
we've got district attorneys and sheriffs that are open in their arms and say and thank
God you're here let's do some great business and we've got some fantastic operations that
we are just now starting new operations for us and we're going to be able to put the purple
perpetrators away and rescue the children victims that are there in their possession and other
places where sadly enough district attorneys and sheriffs are saying we don't want people
to know that this goes on and this is such a big problem in our city so no thank you
we we're not going to cooperate with you and play ball we'd rather keep it hidden and my
god to us that was like a kick in the stomach like well no wonder this is so big you know
evil expands and that's how we got here that's how we got in this mess of the evil tentacles
wrapped its wrapped itself around our country to the degree that it did and has the grip
on our country that it does is because weak men looked away and allowed it and we cannot
tolerate we cannot afford that mindset any longer we have to pull up our big boy pants
as American citizens and all do a little bit so that together we can have a huge effect
at beating this back because it got help us men if we can't stand up for the innocent
precious children then who are we we got no business breathing breathing up oxygen if
we can't do that that's the least among us at least among us should be able to do that
so we're just trying to rally the people to pay attention and join us men it's we're not
asking everybody to be the one to stand up and save the day for everybody but if we all
do a little bit it counts for a lot well I know that I've been briefed by people that
have been on federal task forces and assigned to them and they say you can bust a few of
the low level but then it's always up above it especially when they're having big football
events or big championship events that they the globalist pick cities that will cover
it up just like you were saying and then they just stop even federal law enforcement military
task forces that have tried to be involved and they say 100% it is it is expanding as
you said and now becoming like a commodity to come so pervasive it's become basically
industrialized they have formulas and that what's fueling it is the massive amounts
of migrants we know that Hillary got caught and much more people went to prison trying
to ship in thousands of little kids out of Haiti without any records and a bunch of disappeared
and so this is a sickening commodity and that's why they want giant unwashed third world populations
that are unvetted because they can just be disappeared that's why you know found these
trailers with 60 70 80 men women and children in them dead just to somebody didn't pay the
money at the other end like they wanted they just locked the door and everybody dies I
mean this is a and then and then Robert Rodriguez makes films about how Texans are on the border
shooting Hispanics but meanwhile it's the Mexican cartels and the Democratic Party who
literally use Hispanics like throwaway garbage yeah well I believe as Trump drains the swamp
we'll be able to remove people in key leadership positions throughout the chain of command and
federal and local law enforcement that are perpetuating the problem there as you alluded
to there are no go zones and times surrounding the Super Bowl with all these elites that
come in they descend upon a city and they want every you know they want to purchase
every manner of perversion children being one of those and it's provided for them and
one and that's why so many elites go to the big Kentucky Derby's or the Super Bowl in
Houston or any of these places is for that time it becomes the no go zone and then there's
promise protection for huge amounts of payments just for that time.
Sadly enough it's true sadly enough it's true same thing with the border there are areas
and times where there are corridors that are looked away from and both sides know it and
we the people are suffering the consequences of it so again as these people these subversives
and obstructionists throughout the chain of command are removed I think things will clean
up and it'll make a lot more sense and there'll be an increase in the rate of the cascading
avalanche of failures of these these criminal enterprises that are in abuse and so many
of it.
I was about to bring that up they are running scared right now they are wild eyed desperate.
I know I know at least one area in Dallas where a bunch of high rollers are packing
up have already left overseas literally left overnight we're talking about very very wealthy
people packed up and left so I think that's got to do with some of what's going on with
the DOJ and probably some of the slush fund surrounding what's going on with the congressional
slush fund for you know sexual abuses so we'll see what happens but yeah there are people
already fleeing the country Alex people of great means and significance so it's these
are bizarre times for sure there's a total war imagine when the history books are finally
written when we win this I mean the stuff that's going to come out there's always been
this attitude of if that's really horrible destroy the economy just cut cut it out get
rid of it but that allowed it to actually grow now it's going to have to call all come out
yeah yeah it does information is key man that's why I love your title info wars man
that's where it's at stay there Craig Sawyer didn't let me to say it before I remember
the dead group Patriot we're going to come back and get more into the film when it's
coming out of people supported don't forget support us free shipping store wide last
day to have guaranteed shipping to your house your Christmas shopping and info or something
global and you see the work we do we deserve your support we need it thank you so much
support good oral health with our one of a kind super blue fluoride free products info
wars life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our
bubblegum flavor pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride free
mouthwash and super charge your oral health our amazing mouthwash features natural oils
and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal and biblical times instead of containing fluoride
our super blue line is loaded with a good halogen iodine and an array of other beneficial
compounds that have been hand selected for their oral health benefits super blue fluoride
free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these natural ingredients
xylitol nano silver and iodine notice the difference with our super blue fluoride free
products refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at info wars store
dot com that's info wars store dot com hey if you want to slow down your aging process
and protect your heart and brain from constant exposure to harmful toxins then you need dna
force the most complete full spectrum age-defying cell protecting formula in the world dna force
is designed to help energize your cardiovascular system and reduce the aging process yeah you
like the sound of that each bottle is jam packed with a powerful antioxidant blend clinically
studied to support and accelerate your body's natural defenses against harmful toxins it's
in your dna go to info wars life dot com right now and check out the reviews for yourself
and now just in time for christmas we are offering dna force at 33 percent off so take
advantage of this incredible deal get a bottle of dna force today at info wars life dot com
or call 1-888-253-3139 you're listening to the alex jones show if you are receiving this
transmission you are the resistance you're listening to alex jones this country has been
seized by multinational groups that use corruption to control populations and studying different
intelligence operations just back when i was a teenager i thought it was interesting i learned
about the victim brzezinski in the books he wrote about how they control organized crime
and how they even use sex trafficking and things to control people i mean i mean that's
a well-known thing but it's the trafficking of children and you realize that it's like
the sick club to show you're an anti-human scumbag to show that you're a selfish piece
of crap to show that you're twisted and evil and so a lot of folks reportedly aren't even
into it but they just know it's like fraternities where you gotta have sex with a goat or something
just a thousand times worse so they corrupt you they have pictures of you with a goat
that's how they think that they can trust you that's how they compromise people you
should just be compromised by not wanting to show your family name and fear in god plus
who wants to do that stuff anyways this is short segment long segment coming up with
craig soyer again tv host weapons expert counterterrorism expert federal officer former navy seal if
you just joined us we were getting into you're just dissent into researching the child kidnapping
rings all the rest of it the media trying to deny it even existed since then the deputy
pope's been busted for reportedly kidnapping and trapping a hundred kids they're just arrest
everywhere but as you said last time you're on it just always ends with the bust tied
up in the courts and then you just never hear about it again the missing link is getting
media that will actually cover it yeah it's frustrating man as a as a decent citizen
just wanting to see you know justice done it's frustrating not to see it talked about I've
I've seen hundreds if not thousands of people hammering Sean Hannity and and Tucker Carlson
and others saying please have saw man on or somebody that does what he does talk about
it they won't they won't but I don't think they're allowed to I know they're good those
two guys are good guys but I don't think they're allowed to to be honest with you look at Rupert
Murdoch who owns Fox News and his son what their outlook is I mean and those are the
most conservative of the mainstream news outlet owners so man I don't I don't have much hope
of the mainstream coming on board and telling the American public what's really going on
in that sense and unless they lose so much credibility and so much revenue that eventually
they're just the complete laughing stock of the public and they're forced to to admit
it and address it but right now they're still trying to hold out they refuse to talk about
it I've seen I've seen exaggeration 50 articles or more just the last six months going Alex
Jones is making it up there's all these busts or or Trump's not there's not increased arrest
of pedophiles and then I go read actual FBI site numbers it's exploded I mean you see it
all over local news hundreds here 50 there all these arrest people with all these little
kids and I know you're now in part of these busts able to document it it's gonna be shown
soon but I mean it's just it's happening they're trying to deny it yeah well when people don't
believe what they hear you have to show them so what we're gonna do is just walk them through
okay you know I know it's hard to believe but here you go and we're gonna walk them
through they're gonna they're gonna talk they're gonna hear from law enforcement the
perps themselves the surviving victims witnesses family members and they're gonna see arrest
they're gonna see us extracting children if if if that part of it can happen before we
button this thing up arrest of the perpetrators by our team so we've got ground operations
coming up that are going to be very powerful and and have multiple aspects of benefit to
them so you're about to move against people and suddenly they're gone no because I think
our stealth in the way that we do what we're doing we're we're very careful about that
so we haven't had that so much but we have had officials or organizations that weren't
inclined really to do their job kind of stall and drag their feet and we've kind of had
just had to move away from them so it's it's been an interesting journey for sure you had
all the sabotage of even trying to get funding too yeah yeah and that's that's one thing
that we can really get a boost from if we can rally a little bit more we can we've got
a chance to go internationally and what a lot of Americans don't know is that the American
male specifically is the biggest client or driver of the industry right there we're gonna
come back and talk about that straight ahead truly seconding choose to take control of
your chemistry with survival shield x2 and bio true selenium this powerful combo is perfect
for supporting your thyroid and health bio true selenium formula is far from synthetic
and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed our super high quality nascent
iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals this
essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every
cell tissue and organ in the body with inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism
lethargy weight gain and overall brain fog survival shield x2 and bio true selenium work
together to support the systems in your body take control of your chemistry today with
this super combo discover the power of survival shield x2 and bio true selenium at info wars
life dot com big brother mainstream media government cover ups you want to stop tyranny
will so does he live from the info wars dot com studios it's alex jones well earlier
we said that antifa or ices will be the main suspects in the derailment in washington state
that's killed quite a few people and injured more than 80 as it came down onto i5 and crashed
down into the highway a true disaster well now we learn that that very town antifa were
camped out on the tracks that in other surrounding areas law enforcement and raids on them in
the last week trying to stop them we now know on the their own websites they had said that
they'd carry out attacks they videotaped the attacks and called for more attacks and we're
training others and now the fbi is reporting and amdrag is reporting as well as the associated
press that it looks like a track obstruction is what caused the train to jump off the track
yeah a big telltale was it was in a major city see 99% of it's gonna be in rural areas
on that route but notice it's right there where a lazy method could just come up and
obstruct the tracks so boom this just went from them being the prime suspects to we'll
see a media tries to cover this up now when you got a group in the area that's done it
says they're going to do it and then they're saying it's an obstruction of the track or
they're looking at that this this is getting really bad craig soyer any other commos of
that before we get back into the film of contra land well on the antifa thing and then in
this train track i'd like to be a fly on the wall in some of these meetings and listen
to some of the the news anchors on the mainstream news media and see if any of them care if
any of them get it that they're refusing to tell the truth about that which is is has
been official for their own country there they're actually part of the problem by giving
anti for a break and and by spinning this and trying to make it look somehow okay this
is not okay this is terrorism and we should all denounce it including our mainstream news
media outlets and anchors so i just i'm personally curious as to what they think are they
think they're somehow doing something good by giving terrorists a break against their
own family and and friends it doesn't make sense to me and i noticed the literature
of antifa and al-qaeda when it comes to sabotage is basically identical so al-qa ISIS or al-qaeda
or somebody could have done this too and you know it could have been naturally occurring
a lot of the tracks are old but they've been trying to update the tracks that have faster
trains on them and get a slow train hit something it's not going to be as dramatic as a fast
train what idiots we're going to stop fracking so let's derail a passenger train well i suppose
they'd rather give the money to our enemies overseas over in the middle east so that let's
keep giving them trillions of dollars so they can spin up and and bomb us with more sophisticated
weapons it's just it's silly to see what it is that they choose to undermine cars and
smartphones and they bitch about an industrial civilization we're one of the cleanest industrial
countries in the world well there's a lot of disinformation and that's why you've got
these misguided youth you know they're they're the victims unwitting victims they propaganda
and false rhetoric campaign and an effective one let's get into again the groundbreaking
film that you just had the idea i guess a year ago you've gone out you've done it all
your credible law enforcement and intelligence agency contacts we told people the hollywood
pedophile and rape scandal was coming now that's coming out we told everybody about
what was happening europe record bust as good people just decide to move forward it's not
just trump he's just given part of a green light he's surrounded but just everybody
just moves forward knowing we're being blocked but think if we bust enough of them or expose
enough of them it'll cause a chain reaction i think we've started that chain reaction
the film like this that would then create a series i believe where we're not just you
know cops what you're going to do when they come for you bust winos or whatever or you
want to pull over drunks but actually go after pedophiles and things tell us more about
the film some of the things you're working on and how folks can help fund the operation
yeah man well one of the you know four aspects that we're about it bets for child rescue
is actually extracting the children i've always said we can't win this war by extracting children
but it is an important part of it and it's a life changing event for that child or those
children so we do want to be a part of that and we've got the opportunity to do that both
in the continental united states and and oh conus as well now internationally with another
org that that we're allies with now operation underground railroad tim ballard and he's
invited me to go roll with what he calls his jump team and they go help extract children
overseas and and and free them so we've got the opportunity to do that we've got a type
of ground operation that i won't describe yet inside the continental united states that
we are going to be able to rescue the children so that's just feels amazing it's just another
part of the war you know and so that's that's something that we're very very excited about
but we we've got enough funding to do the basic documentary as it stands but in order
to take the invitations that we've been given on top of what we've done so far we would
need more funding so i do hope that that people of means that want to get behind us you've
gotten the ball rolling and and so you're gonna film soon but again it's a chain reaction
it's what it's all about yeah yeah the more the more funding we have the more places we
can go the more rescues we can do the more the sooner we can start the following series
that's going to cover a wider range of scope that we can get to and by the way i'm not
made out of money the reason i gave you a hundred thousand dollars was i know your credentials
i know that some of the groups you're working with and i knew that it was important you
were trying to do and i saw you on paypal and every other platform being globalist run
when you've got multiple tv shows history channel discovery channel you know your your
names on firearms your respected guy you're a federal marshal you know still team six
leader not not commander you never talk about it the point is still team six guy folks that
talk to you know army you never see your great guy so you know i check into people and i watch
them for four months block you i'd only given ten thousand uh and so you know uh and believe
me my kids you know haven't had ten thousand put their trust fund a piece you know and in
their whole life and i'm not made out of money but i just go with my gut and that's why i
gave the hundred thousand uh because you know uh you're you're a hard charger you're getting
stuff done uh and you know some people came and visited with me they said listen underground
railroad that's a separate group you're working with uh you know they're good guys but they
just free the children then it drives up the price some of the groups are actually uh you
know moving against the people especially overseas they think it's killing the people
that are involved that'll really shut it down and i agree with that and i know some of that's
going on now uh the problem is that's so super ultra secretive and crazy i only want to know
and but i don't think it's immoral to just save the kids themselves and arrest the perps
here domestically i understand we want to get the big kingpins but they're highly protected
that's how we're going to roll them up right but i mean what's the focus on that yeah well
i think with us being a an NGO like we are and a nonprofit we've got to start with what
we can do and develop momentum and steam we would like to meet with Ivanka and and show
her what we've got going on because that's kind of her niche within this this administration
so um i think it's a matter of momentum alex you know we're just getting our feet under
us you said last year no it's it's been just april we founded this in april officially
so it's happening quickly for us and we're young but we are deep and powerful as far
as connections go so there's more than one way to fight for your country alex and i don't
want to sound like i'm being uh um overly flattering but genuinely i'm thankful for your
your donation you when you stepped up and dropped that hundred thousand dollars you
did it in good faith you did not tie any strings to it there was no requirement on our part
to scratch your back in return and i want people to know that because when i hear people
uh fuss and complain well and make uh accusation well alex jones this or that i'm like well
alex jones has dropped a hundred thousand dollars in good faith to help us rescue kids
what have you done and they uh they don't have any answer for that so thank you alex
and shame all knows that that i'll believe me brother i mean we're all it's i've got
children you've got children i know that you know everybody's dealt with the stuff that's
out there and i've got the sources i know what's going on and they're just saying well
we're just focusing on wiping people out we can get our hands on them overseas okay great
that that's wonderful but no one's done the light shining is all the media scared you're
an established tv producer with hit tv shows and things and if those don't know you got
blocked for being able to put out these on mainstream tv so it's not the fact that you're
new at this you're established at the light part at the coverage part that will be the
detonator for the real chain reaction we get one big show that'll actually cover this
and wake up america it's like uncle tom's cabin or the jungle uh or any of this it will
cause the chain reaction let's talk about the chain reaction when we come back stay
with us hello mr. anderson the nsa has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news
sites we have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist tired of your internet
activity being monitored by big brother get virtual shield dot com the world's easiest
to use virtual private network brows the web anonymously leaving pesky advertisers and
spies in the dust get started today at virtual shield dot com take advantage of our free
30 day trial virtual shield dot com you have the right to remain private fully cooked ready
to eat bacon i'm talking thick meaty center cut presidential bacon savory and delicious
i buy some i use some i store some awesome no refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf
life nasa pack technology bacon fully cooked fully hydrated ready to eat right from the
pack bacon or warm and serve life saving ready to eat bacon 10 year shelf life bacon
ships free at fully cooked bacon dot com fully cooked bacon dot com water is the single
most important thing your body needs so you want to be sure it's the best for you and
your family since 2005 thousands have depended on perky purified water the perky guy provides
the lowest price filtration systems in every size for incredibly delicious water now and
in an emergency get to go perky dot com recall eight seven seven eight eight six three six
five three eight seven seven eight eight six three six five three go perky dot com if you
are someone you care about loves outdoor adventure then check out sling bow dot com for some unique
holiday gift ideas that's sling bow dot com where we have some innovative new products
for the archer hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family now through january use the
promo code holiday to get free shipping in the u.s. or canada and from all of us at sling
bow industries have a safe joyous and peaceful holiday season you heard it here first and
the globalists are already dreading it it's the first annual christmas spectacular extravaganza
brought to you by info wars and it's launching christmas week leading into christmas you
know christmas is about christmas and to celebrate this we've got the biggest sales
in the history of info wars and info wars tour dot com fifty to sixty seven percent off
all our bestselling items and free shipping a lot of these items high quality supplements
nutraceuticals patriot apparel water filtration you name it is lost leader prices right now
because i want to celebrate the birth of jesus christ and celebrate western culture and
celebrate the reassurgence of freedom so find out about the mega sales and special broadcast
going on this week only at info wars dot com four slash show info or store dot com again
it is the christmas spectacular extravaganza i want to plow into all of this i'm gonna spend
a few minutes here first just encouraging listeners to understand that when you buy
t-shirts or water filtration systems or books or videos or other material from info wars
store dot com you are funding the revolution i mean i cannot say it any clear and so it
is essential that you purchase the products at info wars store dot com i want to thank
everybody that has but we've got the best fluoride free toothpaste with colloidal silver
and with high quality atomic iodine and you cannot beat that for children and adults we've
got the best mouthwash designed by dr. jones that's my dad the colloidal silver and iodine
as well info wars life dot com or triple a two five three three one three nine and your
purchase of the products stands with us stands with america stands with trump stands against
the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies and that's who they are and they know
we know who they are and they're coming back against us we need your support
you're listening to the alex jones show
you found it the tip of the spear and i don't say that like i'm big and bad and tough it's
the opposite believe me i've been dealing with these people a long time i don't know how real
they are most of the stuff i can't talk about on air they're bad but the good news is our
gods a lot more powerful than they are just like craig soyer said earlier it's good men
and women doing nothing that has allowed us to get to this point and you just got to stop
being intellectual about it that's what i've done over the years and just do what's right
and then i'm very intellectual about researching things and what we cover what we do i immerse
myself in it and it's very liberating it's also all encompassing it's it's i don't want
to say possessed because i'm not possessed but all i just think about how things work
and how the globalists operate and the patterns and it gets scary how much you know when you
immerse yourself in this you're not immersed in acting cool or you know going to the football
game and i'm not saying all that's a bad thing i wish i could go back to the way i was you
know 25 years ago there's no going back i'm now rewired to all this stuff and it's not
like i'm wired to see it the way i want to see it i'm wired the way the globalists operate
how they operate how they manipulate people and we got their number if we can just get
the average person who isn't evil to just start understanding evil does exist historically
and look it tends to grow at points like a cancer and we got a case of cancer it's operable
but good lord we got to admit it's operable we have to admit we have it to fix it craig
i appreciate you joining us today and the rest of the segment we have just recapping
any of the i mean i know you can't talk about a lot of the details but it's very exciting
and no one can doubt now there's a worldwide move against the pedophiles there's an understanding
that that's how they're controlling government and major institutions sandusky sun busted
all these other officials busted the catholic church hollywood it's it's it's just getting
more and more intense this is the season of renewal of overturning the evil and i just
think we're all kind of interconnected spiritually like a invisible internet they proven that's
there to have ducks fly south you know for for the winter humans have that same thing
as well and all of us are just being led to fight this and so many other evils on the
same front because we knew that evil grew to a certain point that despite how comfortable
we were we had to activate or it was about to truly take over which hillary was planning
to do yeah man why we dodged a bullet there and i do believe that we experienced a supernatural
intervention when we avoided hillary clinton taken over because i think she was on short
final to hand the keys of the kingdom over to the globalist and here's the united states
come do with them whatever you want and it wouldn't have been good for they had admitted
authoritarianism had to be set up yeah yeah so hey looks i think we've got to move the
ball so far upfield for the positive that it can never be turned around and brought
back to the brink of the the precipice that we were teetering on in november literally
and i think education is the key man one of one of the things that we're doing is educating
now uh the youth we found a local organization that's doing great things with a great curriculum
that i want to take national because what they're doing alex is preparing the children
arming them with that knowledge so that they understand how the predators prey upon them
through the internet through the games through the iphones or any smart device so we've got
a federal task force that's got a lot of the high tech equipment and the man who actually
invented a lot of that technology who wants to meet you by the way um he should call me
about him but very powerful stuff so if we can if we can arm the children if we can educate
them in their school here's how a predator plays the game here's what that icon means
here's here's what that game might mean here's what all this sugar coating and frosting that
song that lures you into something here's where it can lead so that the children understand
they don't fall victim man an ounce of prevention is worth worth a fortune so that's part of
what we want to implement well and briefly let me expand on that give people the website
uh because i know you got a bunch of them uh where do people go to donate to help fund
the next phase of the film and and when do we see the first installment okay it's vetsforchildrescue.org
and if you type that uh in any search engine you can even vetsforchildrescue.com it'll
get you it gets you there as well so i think uh you type in anything like that you know
and by the way i was told again that's vetsforchildrescue the vets the number four childrescue.org
Craig Sawyer is our guest sawman let me expand on that i was told when fifty shades of gray
came out that was being pushed by hollywood insiders by hollywood folks to get women into
bondage who were never into it showed that statistically they could pick and choose the
targets they wanted when they finally tie a woman up or a man up and then ship them off
and then now we know it's come out in the news that women think they're part of this
and they're being killed they're being tortured again anything hollywood's pitching is like
you said a lure into a culture that's just a higher level to take you down into the basement
basically so it's not just stuff to target children they have things to target men they
have things to target gay men they have all these formulas to basically shut up their
next group of slaves yes sir it's a war against our culture alex and a systematic
breakdown of the moral integrity that made the united states so strong and impenetrable
by our enemies so they've set about deliberately targeting that and breaking it down the family
structure is at the very center of that that's one of the key elements that is under deliberate
attack so look if a lot of these children were trained well by their parents and loved
and not set loose that'd be a lot harder to target so what does the federal government
do when it's under the influence of hostels that want to see family institution broken
down well they come up with stupid programs that are counterproductive they pay women to
have children as long as there's no man in the picture you know that that's harmful man
they're creating a nation of victims who are all alone they're they're creating it and
we don't half of our country doesn't recognize that giving a little trickle handout to those
in the ghetto is not a favor it's an attack it's a deliberate manipulation to keep them
there if you love someone you want to give them a hand lbj said that because the blacks
i'm not i'm not for them being oppressed but it made them have some businesses that were
even more successful than white areas and they said we got to break this up we can't
have them having their own areas in their own businesses they're using their own money
to empower themselves let's break up their family i'll have those inwards vote and democrat
for a hundred years is the quote yeah well my black friends get it and they're successful
and hardworking and they don't really carry that burden but i'd like to see others follow
and understand as well knowledge is power man i think we just need to educate people
like you were saying earlier when we drain the swamp one of the key things that i believe
we really need is to have a deliberate public education campaign on exactly what all barak
hussein obama hillary clinton george soros and others have been up to we need to know
the unwitting half of the american public this still doesn't have an absolute education
about it we've got to absolutely celebrate that we barely survived it and then recognize
that this was like the nazis or any other sophisticated evil i mean this is something
we got to recognize because because this is sophisticated yes sir yes sir and the president
of this platform i don't think that it necessarily needs to be him to do it but he needs to have
an educator a spokesperson that that's part of our national television um curriculum
not curriculum but uh programming so that american people are are shown what's going
on so these these these traders and subversives need to be put on trial for their crimes and
when the facts actually are gone through and come out the american public need to be walked
through that well exactly everything the patriot said fifty years ago what happened and left
us people took over has now happened so we know that craig soyer thank you so much that's
for child rescue dot org can't wait to see more as it develops but like you said i met
you a year ago but just since april launching this you've done so much so uh great job we
salute you and and thank the audience i want to thank the audience for their support as
well without them there's nothing we salute you audience you're as big a part of this
is craig or anybody else thank you guys wouldn't your wife or girlfriend love it if you treated
her to the very best this christmas well you can and you don't even have to go out of your
way we're talking about the world's softest pajamas available exclusively at pajama gram
dot com that's pajama gram dot com created by a team of dedicated pajama experts the
world's softest pajamas are lighter than a cloud softer than a bunny like cashmere only
better she'll love the way the world's softest pajamas feel and you'll love the way they
look more than a gift they're a feeling an invitation to relax a little longer the world's
softest pajamas are available only at pajama gram dot com visit today and give her a gift
that keeps on giving to both of you plus you don't even have to wrap because every pajama
gram includes free gift packaging and christmas delivery is guaranteed so visit pajama gram
dot com or call 1-800-GIVE-PJ's top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by
toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so
what do we do about it well for starters don't just sit there and take it fight back with
the all new supercharged brain force plus and feel the rest without the crash brain force
plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics and now we've added
a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick
other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind it's the real
deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at info wars store dot com you deserve
a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life our organic formula is made from
high quality natural ingredients such as valerian root extract l tryptophan lemon balm leaf extract
and melatonin knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper
sleep millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness but with the
rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace our natural mixture harnesses
the power of ten known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need
wake up refreshed and take on the day info wars life wants to bring you a sleep support
formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price get the sleep
you deserve and experience the power of knockout head on over to info wars life dot com and
say goodbye to fatigue that's info wars life dot com i can arizona you're on the air worldwide
go ahead oh alex you can rent any day of the week thank you sir for doing what you do and
being a patriot and doing your best to save america and encouraging us as fellow patriots
to do that in our local areas as well and as a long time info wars listener i want to
say thanks for the awesome brain force anthroplex my girlfriend would like to say thanks for
the anthroplex thank you i use the bio true selenium the super blue toothpaste for you
folks who are big normal toothpaste fans of super blue is awesome and thank you so much
alex for the info wars life products they are quality i can't wait to get some more
and thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy absolutely because then
we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand that
there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves we can take our country back you're listening to the alex
if you are receiving this transmission you are the resistance it's alex joe
it blows me away that our worst concerns and fears and our analysis our first approximation
was right it appears ap the fbi amtrak early science indicated amtrak train taking its
first trip on a new faster route in washington state may have hit something before derailing
and killing passengers officials told ap now that shows really smart planning because if
you hit the concrete barrier on 30 40 miles an hour like a freight train you're not going
to derail or you're not going to derail spectacularly you got to be going fast 80 miles an hour
so to jump somebody knew exactly what they were doing and they did it right there at
the edge of a highway to block the highway for maximum sabotage now they may clean this
up and try to spin it like vegas and say it's not a terror attack but the whole thing looks
like and you got antifa crawling out of washington state like cockroaches there's another one
a u.s. official track obstruction seen as possible cause of train crash near seattle so that's
the seattle folks don't like me too much don't like you too much there is a there is a real
real evil spirit to these folks so amtrak derails on the highway in washington state
kills at least three people injures over 80 and you've got antifa saying they already
sabotaged trains in the area we're going to hit more trains we're doing training on how
to attack trains and there's their tweet here we endorse crimes like pouring concrete on
train tracks we also include a how-to video at bottom of the article got a shit i don't
want to show the details we ought to show part of the video washington trains sabotage to
stop fracking equipment so there you go there you go and they were reportedly camped out
in the area trying to physically block the train and isn't it fitting that they said hey we can't
derail one of those freight trains is going 30 miles an hour i got that new passenger train
full of men women and children wanting to go through the you know for christmas time and
to the christmas cruise down highway one let's derail that solidarity with hashtag no
dapl how to block trains yeah that's been the big thing i've had a lot of derailments and
always get swept under matt dubial of our wonderful affiliate 1530 wckg in chicago
you're nice let me take over most of this hour but what do you make of this so far
it's disgusting i mean what kind of a planet do we live on where we've got the most surveillance
we've ever had where people are and and they're not even hiding it they're tweeting about it
in plain sight and and they're and and then they're allowed to carry these things out and nobody
i mean obviously we're speculating you're speculating there's no proof yet but if it walks like a
tuck a duck smells like a duck and acts like a duck chances are it's a duck and we know that
there's chatter that's listened to by the nsa and the cia why why aren't they keeping track of these
terrorist organizations exact they're online they're they're saying they're going to do it
they're training and they're showing how they did it and exactly it it's borderline i mean
if this were organized crime if this were the mafia talking about gambling and prostitution
rings they would have rounded up all the places that said oh well you know they said they were
going to do this and all these things came to pass here these organizations are actually
saying what they're going to do in public the mafia sticks around running whores okay or whatever
they're like publicly saying they're going to do it the hubris of these groups their leadership
and their financiers is uh it's got to be reigned in because we know where this money comes from
we know who's spearheading this stuff and yet they're allowed to do it freely it's like watching
um a a movie with a super villain like the one with samuel jackson where he's crashing trains
him and bruce willis uh unbreakable the guy is crashing trains and and nobody knows who it is
except in this real life movie we know who's financing it we know where the money's coming
from we know exactly who's on board with it and it's allowed to happen well they were so emboldened
by obama because you have the former attorney general eric holder saying go block roads take
over trump's evil you've got them all saying day of rage overthrow the government uh new announcements
of uh you know instant action and all the rest of this i mean they're building up
towards something big and i think they're probing with this to see if they can have the media cover
it up and you know whatever i mean i this all points towards an a uh anti-foot type event
alex so this is the same world where we have a bunch of the liberal media that says
that our president when he wasn't the president said something which is questionable about grabbing
somebody by the you know what and then they say that means he's a sexist or he's an abuser now we
have antifa and you showed it and your staff showed it they've actually tweeted here's how you
create damage that could kill people and create have said here's here's where we did it here's
where we block trains at the port uh but they were going slow from the port so they didn't derail
they went out apparently the evidence points towards it at a high speed rail on the maiden
voyage they they wanted something spectacular they were sick of just blocking the trains for a few
hours while engineers show up you know they have those trucks that drive on the rails
they come off a spur and fix it with jackhammers they didn't want that i know this is my family's
worked on the railroads no they didn't want that they wanted spectacular on the maiden voyage
they got it didn't they is that twitter account still active and live today the twitter account
they just pulled it off uh it's going down dot org but it's still on their twitter and but they
actually have a live and active twitter feed hey jack somebody tweet to at jack jack how can they
have a twitter feed that's active oh okay they'll ban roger stone or ban me for a week but no you
know let's put them back up there you know it's official antifa these are the communist saviors
they're allowed to do what they want elix i'm not a big twitter guy but i've been on there since
like the beginning i got like you know a few followers or whatever i tweeted something about
roger stone being cyber stalked by uh rosanne's ex-husband and my tweet was censored my tweet
was censored by twitter and i didn't say anything bad these this group is actually talking and writing
and informing people on how to wreak havoc in the united states of america it's not like here's how
to rob a bank and they tell you they rob a bank and then put they block the railroad tracks and make
a train wreck yeah right even worse even worse and they're allowed to communicate this on the
internet oh they only said it when antifa had guns out last weekend threatening oh and not letting
them get to an event and hitting it with clubs they went oh your anti-second amendment it's not
second amendment to go use guns to block a legal person just like it's not free speech to say here's
how we sabotage the train now we want you to go kill a bunch of people saying let's go kill people
is not free speech and here's what it means it means we're gonna come after them because let me
tell you something i'm done yeah well i i would be great if the fbi would would focus on this
where's the fbi they're too busy arresting amish that sell cheese their neighbors
i laugh but i mean it's true they really are i mean this is this is what passes for justice
in america this is why it's so important you know i was watching you and craig talk and he said 50
percent uh don't know what's going on it's no it's more than that there's many of people that even
think the way that we think that don't really understand the damage that is being done for
not just the last eight years but the last 25 years exactly how can america be the biggest
consumer of pedophilia the biggest consumer of porn the biggest consumer of drugs all of it
it's because for anything that's really good metaphysically hermetically anything that's
really good his history showed evil comes to that so evil is drawn to good to take it over
so we were so good that's why it's it's like the ragnarok it's the yin yang it's all happening here
it's um the the other fallacy is is that the the bad guy doesn't always wear the black cat
the bad guy isn't always who you think the bad guy is in fact the bad guy pretends to be the
good guy a lot it's always that's what people have exactly they don't just stand there and say
we're gonna do bad stuff they hide they masquerade as good people and that's what you're seeing
especially with this trafficking stuff it's it's really terrible it's disgusting all right brother
stay there we've got more to cover on the other side with matt dobiel 15 30 a.m in chicago we got
family in chicago or in chicago tell them tune in and please we have free shipping uh store wide
this is the last day to order at m4store.com to guarantee that you get shipments before christmas
and we need the funding plus they're great products so thank you all for your support
here's a plenary toothpaste or other products today
you heard it here first and the globalists are already dreading it it's the first annual
christmas spectacular extravaganza brought to you by info wars and it's launching christmas week
leading into christmas you know christmas is about christmas and to celebrate this we've got the
biggest sales in the history of info wars and info wars store.com 50 to 67 off all our best-selling
items and free shipping a lot of these items high quality supplements nutraceuticals patriot
apparel water filtration you name it is lost leader prices right now because i want to celebrate
the birth of jesus christ and celebrate western culture and celebrate the reassurgence of freedom
so find out about the mega sales and special broadcast going on this week only at info wars
dot com forward slash show and info wars store dot com again it is the christmas spectacular
extravaganza top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food
and water supply that are making us fat sick and stupid so what do we do about it well for starters
don't just sit there and take it fight back with the all-new supercharged brain force plus and feel
the rush without the crash brain force plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation
and new tropics and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract
that gives you an added kick other ingredients include vitamin b12 and neurological tonic and
cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind
it's the real deal brain force plus secure your bottle right now at info wars store dot com
proper b vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels
up optimum levels with our modern diets it can be hard to get the recommended amount of b vitamins
we need every day up optimum levels b vitamins we need every day secret 12 combines two bio active
forms of vitamin b12 for optimal absorption up optimal absorption being deficient in b
vitamins can cause fatigue depression or memory and lethargy secret 12 up optimal absorption
b vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes
b vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system
up optimum levels secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin b12 intake head to info
wars life dot com support optimal brain and body function with secret 12 that's info wars life
dot com climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by info wars life for those who want
to increase testosterone and energy levels most men know that testosterone levels begin to decline
starting around 30 at a rate of about one to two percent per year this drop can show signs such as
fatigue low energy low sex drive and muscle loss alpha power is packed with some of the most potent
and clinically tested ingredients on the market the secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient
ingredients that have been concentrated into their most potent forms including uricoma
longia folia originally from malaysia makaroo from peru horny goatweed from china and tribulus from
india reach your alpha male potential with alpha power get alpha power now at 50 off and secure
your bottle today you're listening to the alex jones show the answer to 1984 is 1776 you're
listening to the alex jones show humanity faces great obstacles those obstacles are what will
make us great you know the transmission continues on without one shore in the war room here about
10 minutes and then we're going to be taking a lot of phone calls throughout the next however
many hours it kicked off at 8 a.m. with david night so we're like four hours in and then another
three hours so we're like seven hours in we got 20 plus hours left in global live transmission
uh listen i don't want to get up here and like brian go i gave a hundred thousand dollars to
craig soyer to make his film about the pedophile rings i just said my gut knew it was the right
thing to do i'm not made out of money but that's what this whole platform is about is getting people
on air who are doing important things and causing chain reactions and we don't always
cause a chain reaction we rarely do but when we do it changes the world we do all sorts of little
things together that change our own personal lives and create an opposition to the globalist but
info wars is hated by the new world order because they can see dozens of chain reactions
that have devastated their operations originating from here and that means you and matt dubio and
the great crew here and all the other guests and just what we do the enemy knows that its problems
are coming from here and then thank god we get a donald trump there and then other people pop up
and again i don't claim to be the perfect saint but i'm not out to get you and donald trump is
going to make mistakes and he can't even get his they're in political admitting that the bureaucrats
are all ignoring what he says he tells big master don't back isis and don't back these groups and
that it's still going on in syria and that's a whole other subject i didn't get into but later
i'm gonna do a reported eight o'clock tonight with that when i come in and host a few hours so
what matters is intent in our heart king david did a lot of bad things as he made mistakes but he
loved god he didn't mean to be bad so god said you're a man from out art and so all i'm saying is
just keep moving forward because yes we've had big victories but now the counter assault's going to
happen and it's going to be through that process that we find out who we really are but we need
financial funding that is the easiest thing people can do other than sharing articles and videos to
really make sure that we can not just stay where we are but grow because the attempt is to shut us
down and kill us well i'm not going to just try to you know sit here and roll over or whatever i'm
going to expand in the face of the attack because as they're destroying us we're going to be building
up so fast and in the grace of god it's always happened that way our biggest growth spurts come
when we're under attack and we're now in the phase where one more growth spurter to
do it's it's there's no turning us back at that point that's why they're kind of foaming at the
mouth so they've got all these tv shows attacking me each week lying about us that's why i can't
even go out on the street now without being attacked a lot of folks pat me on the back but
like every tenth person starts screaming and yelling like a demon is because this is a revolution
against the globalist so today's the last day to order and get free shipping store-wide and we'll
still have free shipping a few days but to get it delivered before christmas we definitely have
we've got a lot of huge sales sometimes we have the biggest sale on this item or that item or
even four or five items but we have the most things for sale at 50 off it's now more than 80
items at 50 off more than 10 items at 60 off or more an info or store.com we're selling colloidal
silver as a lost leader the highest quality we're talking $15 less than whole food sells the exact
same stuff with another label on it and they do sell a good variety of it so if you have
bsos you buy for 25 you buy for us for 9.95 it seems the order of the year is toothpaste a super
blue four to five with colloidal silver and iodine it is we have for children as well thousands of
positive reviews for all of those the mouthwash as well highest quality by the folks that make
tom's a main but four to five with all this that's a great gift from the tree or in the stocking
that's what everybody seems to be buying right now and that's great and the massive numbers you're
ordering and it funds some of our operations but alpha power male and female enhancement the next
level 50% off brain force 50% off again just go look at it sell for 50% off secret 12 50% off
it's all there infowarstore.com or triple eight two five three three one three nine and those of
you that have already decided to shop with us buying these war bonds buying this it's done it
you've changed the world but now is the next level of the fight so I salute you and speaking of that
I don't know how much Matt can get into this right now Matt Dubigel who runs 1530 WCKG and
the FM station they've got he's got a plan that's about to be green-lighted right now as we speak
to not just the AM covers most of Chicago the FM part of it he's 102.3 he's got a plan to cover
it all and has to do with a name Trump so I guess he's ready to talk about it right now
and and I don't pay to be on WCKG but to help the station out and to do this we have made some
investments and that's what I'm saying the money coming in here is about warring against the globalist
defending ourselves and and and and taking care of the great crew and expanding that's why you
can know that we are committed 100% and here's just another example of what we're doing Matt tell
folks about Trump Tower. It's pretty exciting we got this FM and as soon as Trump was put in the
office things moved very swiftly so the FCC moved very swiftly and approved us to move our FM to
the top of Trump Tower now they could have approved us to move to the top of the Hancock we could
have gone to the top of Willis Tower Trump Tower is actually just the best location for this frequency
and so I can actually talk about it now and and talking about it I've been reluctant to talk about
it because the minute we start talking about it and and you've experienced it yeah and it's
going to happen and I've been trying to kind of muster up some uh illegal funds and things like
that because they come at you in different ways we've had a Muslim Islamic group buy up all the
property around our AM and try and force us out of where the AM property is all sort I mean
the stuff that has happened you wouldn't believe it's it seems like I've made it up they stripped
of our cheer sponsors you're a you're a you're a station manager and a guy that'll actually
come out in the open we learned to never even list our affiliates because they harass them
we just explain we don't list you because you they understand we got some huge 20,000 waters
and stuff that don't you know they get the game I mean this is a war but you've got the courage is
the point people well I'm just you know I people don't realize and in one day I'll tell you about
some of the other stuff that's happened this year to me personally which I'm not going to get into
here because it's not about me so the long and the short of it is is we've worked out the arrangement
with the Trump Tower by the way those people at the Trump Organization have their act together
it wasn't hard to do I'm actually going to be sending checks to the Trump Organization because
we have to lease the tower space at the top of the building and I have my Christmas list as we move
102.3 to the top of Trump Tower what that means is 102.3 FM with with with Real News with David
Knife from 8 to 11 by the way David did an amazing show if anybody wants to learn about
things besides just what's going on but like he talked about taxation and the history of
he's an engineer he's too smart for talk radio I mean the yeah it's like we almost don't deserve
this guy the show was phenomenal you can learn some things your kids can learn some things from
these shows we're going to be broadcasting those shows from the top of Trump Tower we'll be up
there by the end of January God willing you know we got to deal with unions and things but my
Christmas list is I got to buy a control arm for a few thousand dollars I got to buy an antenna
I got to order that today so we're going to be ordering all of that equipment to move to the
top of just be clear 1530 covers a lot of Chicago but you know you're talking about your your FM
transmitter covers a part of it this is going to cover all of it I put up the site map this is
gorgeous then we can really hype to all our listeners tune into the is it the same frequency
on top from tower now FM 102.3 will be from the top of Trump Tower yeah but so they'll be able to
listen in FM which is uh you know it's FM talk is kind of the thing reserved for sports and other
things this is going to be pretty groundbreaking we're going to be breaking in so so I've already
made a donation which you never asked for but you do you have the idea how do folks get the rest
of the equipment you need to have us go from covering part of Chicago to covering all of it
but anybody that wants to participate in any way can go to trump1530.com that's trump1530.com
just put in your email address I'll get back with you personally it's a skeleton crew here
it's me and two other guys and one of them is my son that helps us on the weekend so
it's a small group I'll get back to you personally trump1530.com and it's going to be an exciting
2018 man I tell you got a great response from 1530 over the eight years you've been carrying us
and I know instead of the you know them coming after you all folks should back off you didn't
and uh so I because you you predate when I stop saying who our affiliates are because they get
ratings they get support but as long as we will we say it nationally man the eye of Soran goes
and boy they come after your butt because I mean they know what they're doing this is a mafia of
slugs of global escum but Matt Dibbio hasn't given in to them so we salute you folks who support you
and absolutely so god bless you Matt thank you so much and I can't wait till you launch your own
show because you're a great talk show host with a few other folks on a round table because we're
wanting to go 20 hours live a day as well we don't compete with coast to coast they're great
folks so we're going to try to go to midnight every night and come on at like 5 a.m so that's 19
hours a day so look for big stuff with Matt Dibbio and others thank you Matt Merry Christmas
absolutely Merry Christmas to all my gosh can't believe you can actually say that's like an active
resistance like two plus two equals four George Arwell the modern political correct saying Merry
Christmas is the active freedom you know freak out and there's more Christmas songs they're
banning by the way I never even got to that coming up is the war room please spread these live links
info wars dot com four slash show it's an active resistance Merry Christmas follow you thanks for
the sport vitamin mineral fusion visit info wars life com to secure your chemister we have worked
for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful and affordable great
tasting multivitamin formula available vitamin mineral fusion drink mix and info wars life
dot com is loaded with a full month supply of essential vitamins minerals and amino acids
that your body absolutely needs in the history of info wars life we've brought out a lot of amazing
products like survival shield x2 super male vitality and so many others with its unique
delivery system and proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximize effects this formula
is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most important the
ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest quality lab standard
that means it's clean that means it's pure and rest secure you're finding the tip of the spear
in the info war that's info wars life dot com and vitamin mineral fusion take action now before we
sell out please listen carefully because i'm about to point out three things that will save you a
lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the info war a 360 win number one when
you choose auto ship before checkout we give you 10 off on your order at info warshore dot com
number two you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for auto ship
because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers number three we're giving you free
shipping on all orders above $50 listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy
to forget to reorder the products that you need each month just go to info warshore dot com select
your favorite product or products click on auto ship and choose how often you want us to send you
another order as you know i coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature in info
wars life dot com this is a sure win 10 off on auto ship win win win at info wars life dot com
free shipping on orders above 50 bucks and all out of stock items are never out of stock when you
sign up for auto ship you're listening to the alex jones show
