If you are receiving this transmission, you are the resistance you're listening to Alex Jones
Welcome to the Alex Jones show filling in for Alex today. I'm Owen shroyer Paul Joseph Watson
will be taking over soon in the second hour and if you want to talk about raw
unmitigated arrogance you want to talk about feeling like you are truly above
the rest of the population truly beyond reproach well you look at Hillary
Clinton saying why aren't I 50 points ahead you look at James Comey and Peter
stroke changing the terminology in the Hillary Clinton investigation so that
she did not get indicted but this is something that seems to be infecting
many Democrats if not all including Sheila Jackson Lee who apparently thinks
she is the most important person to ever step foot on an airplane here's a
report from John Bowne. Democratic representative Sheila Jackson Lee has
had a career loaded with grandstanding half-truths blanketed racism and sheer
hubris and frankly maybe I should offer a good thanks to the distinguished
members of the majority the Republicans my chairman and others for giving us an
opportunity to have a deliberative constitutional discussion that reinforces
the sanctity of this nation and how well it is that we have lasted some 400
years where we are right now has 42 statues showing you the moment of the
signing of the US Constitution on September 17th 1787 operating under
Constitution that clearly defines what is constitutional what is not he is
incompatible with the office and the leadership of this country and yes the
idea that his continuous assault on women only compiles the fact that I would
ask him it's a job that he does not seemingly like he needs to resign this
is a disgrace stop talking about foolishness be a leader and be the
commander-in-chief and stop all of this when are we going to get the kind of
leader that is deferring of the American people I am sick and tired of it I want a
president general lady is no longer recognized members are reminded to
refrain from engaging in personalities toward the president I've said the same
thing as far as 10 years ago to the German people and any population of
people that is a declining population that doesn't isn't willing to have
enough babies to reproduce themselves and I've said to them you cannot rebuild
your civilization with somebody else's babies you've got to keep your birth
rate up this Western civilization still is a bit is a superior civilization
congressman what are your thoughts about that casting aspersions on his so-called
Western civilization it is a racist unbelievable statement that should not
come out of the mouth of a member of the United States Congress I stand here as a
freed slave because this Congress came together are we going to be able to do
it today to free America I yield back now Lee's lunacy has reached a height
that challenges common sense the Daily Caller reported Jean Marie Simon 63
accused United Airlines on Twitter of bumping her from a December 18th flight
from Houston to Washington DC in order to accommodate Lee Lee responded with an
angry Twitter tirade of her own Tuesday accusing Simon of targeting her because
of a race Lee wrote since this was not any fault of mine the way the individual
continued to act appeared to be upon reflection because I was an African
American seemingly an easy target along with the African American flight
attendant who was very very nice Simon was on the last leg of her return trip
from Guatemala when the incident occurred in fact she spent much of the
1980s documenting war crimes there in the wake of a military coup that saw
thousands murdered raped and starved she first traveled to Guatemala at the
behest of Amnesty International Simon is designated as a hard-line demo right by
the deep well you just heard it Sheila Jackson Lee swamp creature
extraordinaire the louder they scream against Trump the harder they will fall
fuel your body with carnivore the new digestive enzyme product by info war's
life digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the
bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily
absorbable components they also help prevent discomfort from a digestion
caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut digestive enzyme
production declines as we age carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like
those naturally present in the body enjoy the full potential of protein rich
foods again you can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later
indigestion and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets just
one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and
absorption of amino acids the building blocks to your muscles carnivore also
contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can
fully digest all types of meals don't let them you'll go to waste use carnivore
by info wars life head to info wars life calm and secure your bottle now that's
info wars life dot-com
we've got it got it waging war on corruption it's Alex Jones coming to
you live from the front lines of the info war
boy I'll tell you a little global warming would sound pretty good right now
wouldn't it funny how that works Al Gore can you believe Al Gore was the vice
president I mean this guy is such a joke he predicted the polar ice cats would be
completely melted by now how does a man that pathetic become the vice president
welcome into the Alex Jones show filling in for Alex today Owen shroyer Paul
Joseph Watson takes over in the second hour we got some news out here today
of course global well not global but here in America we're gonna have some
record low temperatures it looks like for New Year's Eve Al Gore completely
embarrassed he's not choosing to make any statements you had a building in the
Bronx gets set on fire or caught on fire yesterday they're saying it looked
like it may have been a child playing with a stove I started to remember what
happened in I think it was in England when that apartment building burned it
was mostly inhabited by migrants and it still stands just like a a burned
building just standing there a total eyesore you've got New Year's Eve
security being ramped up because of threats of terror attacks it's so loving
though it's so tolerant you should be tolerant of the open borders that lead
to terrorism what's wrong with you you racist but perhaps more shocking than
Al Gore being completely wrong with his predictions on global warming with this
building that burned in New York City that I believe they said I think what
12 dead perhaps the Trump derangement syndrome that we thought had reached
peak insanity when they were literally screaming at the sky that was an event
for them to protest Trump screaming at the sky you caught a little bit of
Sheila Jackson Lee doing that in the last segment but how about this a
protester has decided to protest Trump by going to Disney World and yelling at
the robot Trump this is truly an unprecedented display of insanity
here is that video of this moron protesting a robot that I took an oath
35 simple words that have been repeated by every American president throughout
history
hi John lock him up lock him up lock him up lock him up lock him up lock him up
it's our chance for him lock him up lock him up lock him up lock him up
notice how no one's joining along lock him up you chanted that in the halls of
a Trump Rally of the entire halls were ringing with lock her up what to him up
lock him up lock him up lock the robot
I guess what this individual lacks in common sense and IQ he makes up for in stamina.
So we give him credit for that, but you know, this is this is actually a pretty sad story
here, folks.
Now, I don't know what Sheila Jackson Lee, I don't know what her deal is.
Is she a swamp creature that's freaked out because of the things that Trump is doing
behind the scenes?
Does she have her own crimes that she's hoping don't get exposed?
Or is she truly just another one of these complete bumbling morons suffering from Trump
derangement syndrome?
It's really sad, it's really sad that this is what the propaganda news has done to individuals.
It's really sad that people's souls are so sucked that they ignore all the evidence in
front of their face and instead go with their emotions that are triggered by fake news.
And so this individual, so brainwashed, so soul sucked, goes to Disney World to yell
at a Trump robot.
You can't make this stuff up.
And I really don't know what you do with a person like that.
Insane asylum, mental institution, you know, we shut a lot of those down in the 90s.
Maybe it's time to reopen some of these mental institutions.
If you're going to Disney World to shout at a robot, maybe there's something wrong with
you.
If you're Sheila Jackson Lee and you want to make a big scene of yourself on the floor
of Congress and you want to make a big scene of yourself on an airplane because of your
hubris, maybe there's something wrong with you.
We've reached a lot of turning points in 2017.
A lot of things where the genie can't be put back in the bottle.
And I think another one of the things that we're going to see here in 2018 is just the
continued of the Trump derangement syndrome, but perhaps even peak insanity levels, especially
if Republicans gained seats in Congress in the 2018 midterms.
Because just like these poor, soul-sucked, brainwashed zombies thought Hillary Clinton
was going to win and thus they freaked out, they threw temper tantrums, they cried, they
screamed at the sky, they still protest Trump, they believe fake news like Russian collusion.
Just like all of that because of fake news saying Hillary Clinton was going to win,
the same fake news is going to tell them that Democrats are going to take Congress.
The Democrats are going to sweep the 2018 midterm elections and then their hopes are
going to be blown back up that when they take Congress they can impeach Trump.
And when that fails and when they're faced with the second harsh reality that everything
they believed in was a lie, what are they going to do then?
We've already seen Antifa get violent.
We've already seen Black Lives Matter, a chance to kill police.
What are they going to do next?
And what is it going to take for the police, or again, I'm not kidding, maybe we need to
reopen mental institutions.
You see there's a weird thing you can do with an individual who thinks that they're invincible.
For example, look at food stamps.
We've been talking about all these people on food stamps that feel totally entitled
to food stamps.
They feel like their family is your responsibility.
How dare you expect me to care for my family?
I need my food stamps.
Just give me my food stamps.
We've played the clips over and over and over.
You've seen the stories of someone's food stamps getting denied at the grocery store
and then they tear the grocery store apart.
There's always something you can do to stop someone that feels invincible without actually
having to do anything.
This is all you've got to do to stop that.
You want to get food stamps, you're going to get drug tested.
How much do you want to bet half of food stamp recipients would no longer receive food stamps,
either A, because they failed a drug test, or B, because they don't want to take a drug
test.
It's the same type of situation.
If you're going to go to Disneyland or Disney World and yell at a Trump robot and cause
a scene, maybe it's time to lock you away in a rubber room for 24 hours.
You start doing that, all of a sudden the Trump derangement syndrome will disappear.
I just don't see how it gets any better, because 2018 is going to be another year of nothing
but defeat for these people.
They're going to be defeated in Congress, they're going to be defeated in the culture
war, they're going to be defeated in the information war, and we're, I mean, I guess it's bad that
Trump cut our taxes, I guess it's bad that the stock market is reaching records.
I guess it's all bad.
Why would you want to get on the winning team?
Why don't you just continue to hate America?
Because to you, that's the winning team, even though you keep losing.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some, awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10-year shelf life, NASA PAC technology, bacon.
Fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the PAC bacon, or warm and serve.
Lifesaving ready to eat bacon, 10-year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com.
Fullycookedbacon.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still
alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties.
Call Life Benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
Hello, Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by Big Brother?
Get VirtualShield.com, the world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Excuse me, sir.
Could you please take a picture of my family and me with my cell phone?
Sure, Mrs. Anderson.
Smile for the camera.
Too bad hackers never get proper permission to access your cell phone or computer camera.
Anyone is or could be susceptible to illegal spying.
That's why VirtualShield.com has developed Identisave, a new security software that
blocks camera and microphone access from unwanted spies.
Get started today at VirtualShield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30-day trial, VirtualShield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Alex Jones here to tell you about how you can help spread liberty worldwide while also
enjoying what I have found to be the best tasting 100% organic coffee on the planet.
For more than a decade, my favorite coffee has come from the high mountains of southern
Mexico where the Chiapas farmers grow their unique shade-grown Arabica beans.
We have now managed to secure the sought-after beans in a highly customized blend.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% Organic Coffee at InfowarsLife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick-me-up for hours without the headaches and heartburn
that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee, and it's taken us years to secure connections
directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two, and I don't think you're going to be disappointed.
Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of
my favorite coffee.
At InfowarsLife.com.
You deserve a deep rest whole sleep with Knockout by InfowarsLife.
Our organic formula is made from high-quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root
extract, L-Tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract, and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
InfowarsLife wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading
brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of Knockout.
Head on over to InfowarsLife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
No, we're not done with the liberal lunacy quite yet.
A man yelling at a robot, that's just the beginning.
Students support new Pocahontas policy.
I wonder if that's named after Elizabeth Warren, allowing applicants to self-identify as people
of color.
Who comes up with this stuff?
Ever wondered that whose brainchild is that?
So I'm going to just go ahead and say today on air that I am a Zimbabwean transsexual.
So welcome to the Alex Jones show.
My name is Owen Schreuer.
I am a Zimbabwean transsexual hosting the show today for Alex.
And this is just part of the new Pocahontas policy here at Infowars where you can identify
as whatever you want.
If you want to be a green badger, if you want to be an orange pumpkin, whatever it is, you
just identify as that and then therefore you are because, well, you're feelings.
But no, this is a serious thing.
At Brown University, applicants will have the opportunity to self-identify as people
of color during the application process.
So again, I'm thinking that this is directly, we should call this the Elizabeth Warren policy,
but the Pocahontas policy is just fine too.
But here's the clip from Campus Reform talking to the students about this policy.
I'm Cabo Phillips with Campus Reform.
Today we're at Brown University where a new policy was enacted giving students the ability
to self-identify as people of color on their application process.
What do students think of this new policy?
Let's find out.
The rule is giving students the chance to self-identify in their words as whether they
feel as if they're a person of color on the application process.
Some people are calling this the Pocahontas policy because students can simply check something
that they don't apply to.
What do you think?
You think it's a good thing or a bad thing?
Overall, I think it's a good thing.
I think this is a positive aspect.
It's intended to create an atmosphere of inclusion and support diversity and I don't see anything
wrong with that, including that would be a really good thing.
Hold on.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Pause it.
Think about it like this.
You've got all of these people at universities that will protest a Milo-Unopolis speech or
a Ben Shapiro speech or whoever's speaking on these campuses and they get violent.
Luchin Wintritt from the Gateway Pundit, they take his speech from him.
So you got all of these crazy liberals out there that want to protest free speech.
And I'm wondering if they would still agree with this policy if Milo-Unopolis showed
up and said he was black and he self-identifies as black.
And then when they protested him, he'd say, hey, you are all racists against black people.
I wonder how that would go if you turned the worm on him like that.
But see, here's their problem.
They don't have, they don't even have two-dimensional thinking.
They have one-dimensional thinking, fully one-dimensional thinking.
Hey, we're going to say that you can identify as whoever you want on your application because
of tolerance.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I don't see anything wrong with that.
Yeah, it's loving.
It's good.
And let's go back to the video.
Here they are.
Here's the actual morons that believe that.
Whether you identify as something, it should be their right to.
I think it would generally be a positive thing.
It should be granted all the options that they feel necessary to express themselves in that
way.
The goal is student comfort and attracting a more diverse student body than I don't
see this particularly harmful.
I feel weird talking about this as not a person of color.
But you could do like one, though.
Yeah.
See, exactly.
No, no.
One right there.
Oh, this is the perfect thing.
I love it when this happens.
I had this happen to me all the time when I'm out interviewing these brain-dead liberals
where some of them may actually have the ability to begin the process of second-dimensional
thinking, but they've never actually been challenged to go to that level.
There's a specific video where I'm talking to a guy here in Austin and I forget what
I asked him and I put the mic in front of his face and he's like, whoa, that's true.
Like how did you, what?
That's what happened to this guy.
He's like, yeah.
Yeah, you should be able to identify as whatever you want, but you know, it's kind of weird
for me as someone that's not a person of color to be saying that.
And so then the guy asking the question says, well, maybe you are a person of color.
Do you feel like it?
And then he's like, oh, so, so watch this again.
This is the moment.
These are, these are beautiful moments.
For the first time at this is, I mean, this guy is at Brown University.
Supposedly these are bastions of higher learning and this guy has never been challenged enough
to kick in to a second-dimensional gear of thinking.
For the first time in his life, probably this guy from campus reform kicks this guy's thought
process into second gear and he freezes.
Watch this.
You're talking about this as not a person of color and what if you feel like one though?
There it is.
He doesn't know what to do.
That's it.
He's trying to go into second gear and he can't do it.
He's never done it before.
He's at a university.
He's at Brown University, supposedly higher learning, higher education, and he's never
been so challenged that he's had to go into second gear of thinking.
This is so gold.
I'm telling you, everything, I just want these liberals to understand, man.
We're not your enemy.
We're really not your enemy, man.
Okay?
We're not racist.
We're not bigots.
We don't hate people.
We're just trying to get you to wake up.
That's all.
And I know it might be hard and it might be uncomfortable for you to actually have to
think beyond your feelings and to kick into second gear and have critical thought.
But I promise you, it is worth it in the end.
Just play this gold for me one more time.
I'm telling you, these students, these young liberals have never been challenged at their
universities to actually go into critical thinking and to go into second-dimensional thinking
because it's all about their feelings.
It's all about liberalism and tolerance and not offending anybody and not having differing
opinions because that might offend somebody.
And then here this student is, a campus reform reporter who's not even a professor at the
university for the first time ever causes his mind to go into second gear one more
time.
Watch this poor brainwashed student for the first time in his life have to kick his thought
process into second gear.
I feel weird talking about this as not a person of color and what if you feel like one though?
Brain freeze.
If the school came to someone who falsely claimed to be a person of color and said you're not,
what if the person said, I am, I identify that way?
I mean, here it is again.
This is incredible.
I don't think I'm allowed to change my ethnicity.
But why is it different than gender?
Oh, wow.
That's a really good question.
I think it's intended for those people that want to identify as a person of color or whatever
it may be.
Here's a racial identity something that is fluid over someone's life.
I'm losing it here.
I feel like people tend not to try and make up their identity.
I feel like something that people themselves know better than people who don't know them
and something that society likes to put on them.
I think that gender is something that is inside of you and that you feel, whereas ethnicity
has ties to culture and heritage and tradition.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know what?
I'm not sure.
Am I a male or a female?
Let me check real quick.
I think it's important.
It looks like I'm a male, but I'm feeling like a female today, so I'm a Zimbabwean transsexual
dog hosting the Alex Jones show today because of my feelings.
That's how I feel.
What?
Hey, Daniel Brieman.
Why new manna, storeable foods?
We believe in freedom.
America needs strong independent families to endure what's ahead.
And we take this charge seriously.
We got options, organic, no gluten without the chemicals, great taste and value.
New Manna is a no-lose investment for your family's food independence.
Get your new manna today, call 888-597-0775, 888-597-0775, online discounts available at
powerprepper.com, powerprepper.com.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still
alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk and no penalties.
Call life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all-new, supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without
the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
We have developed with the top firms in the United States powerful 50 billion live organism,
probiotic, floral life, that is so critical to having a healthy gut and a healthy life
and that has changed my life and so many other people's lives.
The other part is a compound like MycoZX that has all these key ingredients of organic herbs
and other systems that are known to break down this garbage in the body.
That's why as we go through Christmas and now into the New Year, we're extending the
free shipping and 50% off on all our best selling items while supplies last.
You can also get the two products together and get them at 50% off when you combo them.
So popular, sold out for more than six months.
Now back in stock for a limited time at infowarstore.com, infowarslife.com or by calling toll-free
triple-A-2533139 Choose to take control of your chemistry with
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra-pure
deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and
overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Oh and Troy you're filling in for Alex Jones today and you may or may not be able to notice
but I'm a bit under the weather today and I'm telling you if it wasn't for infowarstore.com
and the products there that I'm taking I would not be able to get on air today.
Specifically what I'm taking to get on air today.
Vitamin mineral fusion, chugging colloidal silver way more than you should.
I'm not recommending you do that.
Vitamin B12.
So I mean if it wasn't for brain force, forgot that yeah brain force, if it wasn't for just
the combination of products at infowarstore.com I don't even think I'd be able to get on air
today just because just the allergies are just so bad down here and it's just crazy
right now and then there's winter because global warming isn't working.
I'm a little ticked off.
I'm kind of a fan of global warming to be honest but if you haven't tried the products
at infowarstore.com I'm not sure what you're waiting for.
Just go look at all the reviews.
Don't take my word for it.
Go and look at all the reviews that we have at infowarstore.com and you can see for yourself
what people are saying.
Now right now we have some specials running.
Silver bullet 67% off.
I'd get a case of that.
That's an unbeatable deal.
Brain force is still half off, 50% off brain force plus our new product alpha power is
50% off and I actually had a couple people tell me that they took the alpha power and
they got nauseous.
What I would suggest if that is happening to you is don't take it on an empty stomach
because there's a lot of supplements out there that if you take them on an empty stomach
they will make you feel nauseous if your body is not acclimated to certain nutrients getting
in there, getting into your gut.
So if you are experiencing that I would suggest not taking them on an empty stomach but just
know this.
That's because they work.
These products are no joke.
So 50% off alpha power right now and you've also got the Gut Pack, the New Year's Gut
Pack right now that's Myco ZX plus fluorolife 50% off.
So if you're somebody that struggles with digestive health or you have a gluten intolerance
or something along those lines this is a great special for you.
The Myco ZX fluorolife combo at 50% off.
Now if you get just the Myco ZX that's 25% off if you get just the fluorolife I think
that was 33% off but if you get both of them combined that is 50% off.
That's the New Year's Gut Pack special Myco ZX and fluorolife 50% off but you know one
product that I'm trying to get far and wide with my friends and family is super blue toothpaste
because once you go super blue you're never going back.
And this is something that is a household item.
Everybody needs toothpaste.
Everybody uses toothpaste.
Why not shop at InfowarsStore.com.
It's just like the other day I ran out of hand soap and I'm thinking oh I need to go
get some hand soap from the store and then I remember wait a second we've got EmRick's
Essentials.
EmRick's Essentials at InfowarsStore.com.
All natural household products like shampoo, body wash, mouthwash, etc.
It's all available at InfowarsStore.com so before you go shopping for your next list
of groceries check out InfowarsStore.com and I'll bet you you find something on there
that's a household item that you always need and you always use and now you can shop with
us and the good guys fund this, help us grow and support the Infowar and you know Alex
pays it forward, builds new studios, hires more staff, gets more live broadcasts, does
more live broadcasts.
So that's what happens when you support us at InfowarsStore.com they're going through
EmRick's Essentials.
Look at all these essential oils they have.
I know people that are really into essential oils so why not go to InfowarsStore.com and
check out some of our essential oils and again don't take my word for it go to the InfowarsStore.com
and look at the reviews for Brainforce Plus.
Look at the reviews for SuperMail Vitality.
Look at the reviews for Silver Bullet and you will see that these products are no joke
and they truly do work.
Okay, in the last segment we played the campus reform video where students at Brown University
are looking at a new policy where they're calling it the Pocahontas policy.
I think they're naming it after Elizabeth Warren where you can just identify as whatever
you want.
You know identify on your application as a Native American like Elizabeth Warren did
when she lied about it then that's okay now.
Which again this shows you how they don't have a second dimension of thinking.
How they can't kick their thinking in second gear because these are the same people that
would have virtue signal all day long for minorities, virtue signal all day long to try
to give them more benefits and if you're white you know take a back seat but they don't
even understand.
It's sad.
They don't even have the second level of critical thinking to realize that this policy completely
destroys their liberal policies catered to minorities where they get all the advantages.
Because now if anyone can claim to be a minority then nobody's a minority.
But they don't get that.
And what I was breaking down that I thought was so powerful and then it actually happened
again and again and again and I was focusing on the first guy.
But this is so illustrative.
And I really want people that disagree with infowars, that think we're nuts, that hate
Trump, that are these indoctrinated liberals you really believe in in utopia.
Again, we're not your enemy.
I'm not attacking you.
I'm just calling it as I see it.
And I want to go back to this video that I shot in Austin, Texas.
The Harrison was my cameraman that day, Trump came to town to address Hurricane Harvey here.
And I ran into an individual who was protesting Trump and I asked him a couple questions and
you saw the exact same thing.
So what I want liberals out there that see this, I just want you to recognize something
here.
I'm not your enemy.
We're not your enemy.
We want to help you.
You have a serious brainwashing problem.
You have a serious issue of Stockholm syndrome.
You really have mental issues.
We really care about you.
I'm not trying to insult you.
This is not me being mean.
And just to prove what I'm talking about, let's roll this clip of the man protesting
Trump that I forced to think critically who had a total brain freeze.
All right, come on.
Hey, we found this man will talk to us.
So why should Trump be impeached?
Because he's lied a thousand times on record.
What does he lie about?
Can we look it up on his phone?
No, he's recording right now.
But you're the one saying impeach the president.
Yeah, yeah, because you're the one who wants to impeach him.
I mean, I can impeach him myself.
But you're out here with the impeach Trump crowd.
Yeah, I would love to advance.
You see this?
You see this?
Pause right here.
You see this?
This is, this is, this is the individual who's never been challenged to go to the second
degree of thinking here.
There's time being challenged and, and starting to go there.
Let's watch the rest.
Why?
Because we've got a liar.
I know.
So it keeps coming back.
So what did he lie about?
Let's look this up.
Okay.
Now he goes to his phone.
You're out here protesting.
You shouldn't have to look it up.
You know, you should already know your cause, don't you think?
You're probably, you know, right in some way.
I mean, if you have to look it up, it must not be that important to you, you know?
This sounds like a leading question.
I'll tell you what, I'll let you do some research and we'll come back.
How about that?
There he goes.
No problem.
Hey, thank you for talking.
So, so look.
I already tried to talk to you.
So that's enough guys.
So, but there's this, and I understand why, because we come on here, we call them libtards.
You know, but folks, what is the future of an individual like that individual or an individual
like we saw in the campus reform video that can't even critically think?
Yeah, look at his face.
I'm not insulting this individual, but look at that face.
He's, he's, that is the face of a man who for the first time ever has been challenged
to think beyond his own feelings.
And he realizes it and he goes, wow, yeah, you're probably right.
But think about it.
What is, what is the future of an individual who cannot think past one degree of thought
process?
What is the future of an individual who cannot think past their feelings?
And beyond that, what is the future of a country?
What is the future of a school?
What is the future of a group of people that cannot think past first dimensional thinking?
What is the future for them?
Not good slavery.
That's how you get tricked into slavery right there.
Mike in Arizona here on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save
America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a long time infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force
anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex.
Thank you.
I use the bio true selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks for big, normal toothpaste
fans.
The super blue is awesome.
Thank you so much, Alex, for the infowars life products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can
take our country back.
2017 has been a earth shaking year.
And 2018 guaranteed is even going to be wilder.
In fact, my good friend, Steph, I'm Malinou said it's going to be like the battle of
the gods.
Ragnarok.
So get ready, ladies and gentlemen.
And that's why, thanking you for all your support, we are extending free shipping store
wide and infowarsstore.com into early January and the massive 50 to 67% off all our best
selling items.
So, ladies and gentlemen, whether it's colloidal silver or brain force or micro ZX or fluorolife,
they're now back in stock.
They're all massively discounted with free shipping at infowarsstore.com.
Take advantage of it right through the new year in a salute to the info warriors and
into a thanks to all of you that have made this operation possible.
From myself, the entire info wars crew, thank you for your support.
Thank you for bringing America back from the edge of death.
And thank you for standing against the globalist and their bullying garbage.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need
every day.
B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12, optimal absorption.
B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body function with Secret 12.
That's infowarslife.com.
Dr. Group, you developed Living Defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system.
Right now, we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism.
Right now, with all the refugees spreading disease around, we have biological warfare
going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
We just came back in yesterday, Living Defense, infowarslife.com, and folks, you can't lose.
It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period, and you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
All right.
Let's look at some of this news that we have here today.
You've got a rare intersex shark, the first of its kind.
So yeah, I mean, I guess that's kind of rare, the only one, pretty rare.
You know, but this is probably a conspiracy theory like the gay frogs, and the atrazine
probably doesn't exist.
But now, for the first time ever, a intersex shark has been found with male and female
reproductive systems.
I'm sure that has nothing to do with the chemicals that we've intoxicated our planet with.
I'm sure it has nothing to do with that at all.
Nothing to see here, nothing to see with the gay frogs either.
Here's a story in the New York Times today, the year the news accelerated to Trump speed.
It really is mind boggling everything that got exposed in Trump's first year in office.
It's almost impossible to sit here and try to name it all, and that's because it was
breaking all the time.
I mean, just look at everything that was exposed with Barack Obama.
Look at everything that was exposed with Hillary Clinton.
Look at everything that was exposed with the FBI.
Look at everything that was exposed with the Me Too movement.
It's really quite incredible.
Meanwhile, half of abducted Iraqi Yazidi girls remain in ISIS captivity and sex slavery.
Thousands of kidnapped girls forgotten in hell.
And this was also a result of what Hillary Clinton's policy in Libya did where they have
slaves now.
But we're the racists because we call it out.
And that's a great point.
In fact, I was going to probably pop it on the show today about that that's why I came
in here when I saw you recovering.
And just the whole fact that you like the New York Times admits, news at Trump's speed.
We are taking control of the narrative, not just Trump, all of us by what we want to break,
what we want to focus on, not letting the globalists set the subjects anymore.
Their back is broken in 2017.
Now the big war is in 2018 with the floundering remnants of the globalist.
I completely agree.
And they can't keep up.
And that's why they're failing.
See, there is no one at the New York Times that could actually write a story where they
have to do some serious soul searching and say, wow, maybe all those negative stories
we wrote about Trump were inaccurate, considering none of them really caught any headwinds.
Meanwhile, look at all the momentum going against Robert Mueller right now, how it's
been discovered that that whole thing was a witch hunt beyond a witch hunt.
And that the same FBI agents that were trying to rig the election for Hillary Clinton, look
at James Comey, look at Peter Stroke, are the same people that are now behind the Trump
Russia probe.
Oh, but I'm sure that there is no bias there.
But look at this victory for Trump, China offers tax incentives to persuade U.S. companies
to stay.
Folks, there is a geopolitical climate change happening right now.
And you have to understand that what Trump did when he cut the corporate tax rate to
20% is he basically just kicked China in the groin.
Because now China does not have a stranglehold on manufacturing companies coming in.
So now all of a sudden, America gets this new boost to their economy, America gets this
new boost of manufacturing companies wanting to come and do business in America.
And that breaks China's will to dominate that sector, which is what they wanted.
And so now all of a sudden, with this whole North Korea thing, China doesn't have as much
power to wield as they had before when they could just dominate that and take all the
manufacturing.
But see, this is what the Democrats don't understand, but maybe they do understand and
perhaps they just want China to have the booming economy.
They don't want the United States to have a 3% GDP growth every year.
And in fact, I truly believe we will see, I mean, barring something catastrophic, we
will see probably a four, if not a 5% GDP growth within one quarter of Donald Trump's
first four years in office.
And I really believe that.
And that's what you do to build your country back up.
If you're an enemy of a country, what do you do?
You attack their energy sector, you try to destroy their energy supply, look at what
Obama did to coal.
Trump reverses that, brings coal back, GDP shoots back up, China's back's against the
wall now.
So I know that this is too complicated for the average, honestly, probably just the average
person, but the average liberal has no idea.
They couldn't even probably find China on a map, if you want to be perfectly honest.
But then you have this story, could the Dow hit 25,000 before 2018?
It's flirting with it.
I think right now it's at like 24,7 maybe.
I'm not sure what it currently stands at.
According to this story published this morning, it was at 24,8, well, wow, wow.
I just, President Trump man, you know, he's not perfect.
I'm not going to sit here and fanboy over Trump, but I mean, my goodness, can you imagine
if Hillary Clinton would have been president?
I can't even imagine.
Honestly, I cannot even imagine.
And you know, if Hillary Clinton would have won, none of this Weinstein Gate would have
happened at all, none of it, zero, Weinstein Gate would have never happened, Hollywood
would have never been exposed.
Because every time, every tactic that they use to try to take down Trump, whether it
be this Russian probe that's now been exposed as totally biased and now even beyond bias
with what appears to be traitors inside the government, you've got this Weinstein Gate
where Hollywood gets exposed as a bastion of sexual deviancy and sexual assault.
And you know, you've got some people calling it both ways, like, yeah, okay, these powerful
men in Hollywood were probably inappropriately abusing women, but at the same time there
were women in Hollywood that were glad to put themselves out there for a role or for
career advancement.
So it goes a little both ways, but this was the battle they chose because they thought
it would come back and land on Trump, which it's not.
It's not sticking.
So again, they're just exposing themselves.
A powerful person has been accused of misconduct at a rate of once every 20 hours since Weinstein
and not to politicize this, but just to call it as it is, 90% of these people are good liberals.
90% of these people hang out in the same circle of friends as Bill and Hillary Clinton.
A lot of these people are even donating to Bill and Hillary Clinton's campaigns, Obama's
campaigns, getting praised by the Obamas for how good they are, getting praised by
the Michael Morris for how good they are.
Oh, then they get exposed as sexual assaulters.
Never would have happened if it wasn't for President Trump.
So just remember, before you want to blame Trump of whatever it is you're going to try
to blame him of, you're probably the guilty party and it's going to come back on you,
Sheila Jackson Lee.
You might want to get out of office before you have a hard fall.
Now this story actually broke yesterday.
Date set for Trump's first physical exam is present.
I have a feeling that when we get these results, the physical exam is on January 12th.
I don't know when they'll make it public.
I have a feeling that these results are going to trigger the liberals so hard.
Now this is actually going to be interesting because you know that they're going to try
to spin this and say he's unfit, try to invoke the 25th Amendment, say he's unhealthy, he
can't handle it.
That's going to be the spin.
And then if they release the reports and he's fully healthy, healthiest president ever, what
are they going to do then?
So this is just another liberal breakdown waiting to happen here when Trump's health
is announced because honestly, I don't know how Trump does it.
I don't know how Trump works so hard.
I don't know how he sleeps four hours a day and is still able to do everything he does.
It's really quite shocking to me.
I could never do it.
And I'm 28 years old.
I couldn't imagine a 71-year-old man sleeping four hours a day and working his ass off.
But then again, as far as I know, this is the only president of the United States that's
sober.
I've never heard of a president that never drank alcohol or never touched any drugs.
Obama used to brag about that stuff.
So maybe that has something to do with it.
He's never intoxicated himself with drugs or alcohol.
But that's just incredible, and I'm expecting that physical to be sterling and for the liberals
to actually freak out as the mainstream fake news spin is, he's unfit.
He's unhealthy.
He can't make it.
We need to invoke the 25th.
Then the health report comes out, oh, President Trump is one of the most healthy 71-year-olds
probably walking planet Earth.
Paul Joseph Watson takes over on the other side.
This is the Alex Jones Show.
Climb to the top of the food chain with alpha power by InfoWarsLife.
For those who want to increase testosterone and energy levels, most men know that testosterone
levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of about 1 to 2 percent per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss.
Alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Alpha power now at 50 percent off and secure your bottle today.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Take it back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rust without
the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics
and now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic is Alex Jones.
Alex Jones sitting to my right and we are about to throw things over to Paul Joseph
Watson.
We wanted to get a little round table going here and I'll just start it with this, Alex.
I have never been more patient in my life because it's like they've fallen apart at
every angle.
They've fallen apart at Trump Russia.
They've fallen apart on global warming.
They've fallen apart on open borders.
They haven't succeeded anywhere, Alex.
We keep winning.
And that's because no one ever really challenged them and they had this con game going, this
illusion and the globalists had hijacked America and hijacked Europe and used those engines
in our good name to take over the world.
But ragtag groups for decades, going back to very gold water right through Ron Paul,
you name it.
Ronald Reagan when he was running for office talked about the globalists because of that
and then the new media like dredge report and info wars and then Breitbart and others
that came along later.
We normalized covering globalism and the new world order and what was really going on.
They thought they would just use the power of the appeal to authority of MSM to just
call us cooks, call us conspiracy theorists, but it doesn't work anymore, but they are
going to counter strike.
I mean, 2017 has been an amazing year for awakening, but I agree with Paul.
I think 2018 is going to be even more important than 2016 and 2017.
And so everybody better be watching their six.
And I think out on the offensive, Paul Watson, tell us what you got coming up today.
Alex, we've got the news out of Germany where Berlin is setting up a safe zone, a cultural
enrichment free zone to protect women from migrant sex attacks.
They don't say that directly, but obviously that's what it's for.
And what happened two years ago in Cologne, when up to 2000 women were sexually assaulted
by migrant men?
Of course, the same thing happened the next year that they had police out in force to
prevent it.
And the left said that that was xenophobic.
So we'll see if it's xenophobic, if these women run to the safety of these red cross
stations where they can seek refuge from migrant sex attacks.
We've also got the left being completely triggered by Trump tweeting about global warming.
This continues to rumble on.
They're claiming that he's saying you can't disprove global warming by citing the weather,
despite the fact that that's what they do every single day, even say volcanoes or manmade.
Yeah, any extreme weather event, even if it's in a, you know, an isolated example, they
say it's proof of global warming.
If you try to do that against global warming, no, no, no, you're insane.
You're anti science.
The insanity doesn't stop there, they blame, they blame migration on global warming.
They even say that migration is a result of global warming.
They open the borders up, they say come in, they drive down the wages, they exploit the
third world, implode them, write white papers, admitting they're doing a design, but they're
for public consumption, a dust storm, a volcano going off, an electromagnetic storm.
It's all us, the humans, it's all our fault.
What else is coming up, Paul?
Well, we've got a new prediction of terror attacks that they're saying that the ISIS
terror attacks are likely to increase in 2018 because they're being driven out of Syria
and Iraq.
Of course, the UK, along with a lot of other European countries are deliberately allowing
ISIS jihadists to return to the country, not just return, rolling out the red carpet in
some cases, giving them welfare, giving them housing.
So yeah, of course, the likelihood of terror attacks is going to increase if you import
terrorists.
It's a pretty simple equation there, isn't it?
We've got MSNBC saying that Democrats need to run on an impeachment platform in 2018.
That's all they're going to talk about.
So again, they've got no actual policy platform.
Absolutely.
All they've got is we hate Donald Trump.
It failed in 2016, it's going to fail again, but they've got nothing else to go with.
So that's all they're going to go with in 2018.
Absolutely.
All right.
Well, Owen, great job co-hosting throughout the week.
Kind of have this mixed deal.
Most talk radio doesn't do that different host over the show, but it's the Alex Jones
show.
It's Tim Fowler's live.
The listeners all know who it is.
The host, you know, they love the whole crew.
And so Paul Watson for the next two hours, then Rob Do's coming in in the fourth hour.
He's got the folks that on eight-channon, the rest of it, moderate the QAnon boards.
We'll talk about all that to take your phone calls on that subject and so much more.
Again, I'm Alex Jones.
Paul Watson is taking over.
And of course, Owen Schroyer has done a great job here in the first hour.
We'll be right back.
Stay with us.
Please listen carefully, because I'm about to point out three things that will save
you a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the InfoWare, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose AutoShip before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfoWareShore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
AutoShip because we hold back a surplus for AutoShip customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder
the products that you need each month.
Just go to InfoWareShore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on AutoShip
and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new AutoShip feature at InfoWareShore.com,
this is a sure win.
10% off on AutoShip.
And win, win, win at InfoWareShore.com, free shipping on orders above $50.
And all out of stock items are never out of stock when you sign up for AutoShip.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, InfoWare is gaining more momentum.
Our movement is gaining more momentum.
And now, thanks to you, we are setting new milestones.
You have made Paul Joseph Watson set a new milestone over the last week.
So we thank you for everything you do for us.
Without further ado, I pitch it to Paul Joseph Watson.
Take over, Paul.
Thanks, Owen.
Yeah, top story up on InfoWare.com this Friday, December 29th is this headline, Berlin sets
up New Year's Eve party safe zone to protect women from migrant sex attacks.
Of course, that's our headline.
They don't directly admit that that's the reason for this program in the actual press
release in the article put out by the BBC.
But the article reads, Berlin's New Year's Eve party at the Brandenburg Gate, obviously
an iconic location for freedom, not so much anymore, will feature a safe zone for women
to protect them from rape and sexual assaults by gangs of migrant men.
Women who feel harassed will be able to seek help from a special safety zone located on
Albert Strasser, which will be staffed by the German Red Cross.
Now, remember, last year, the one year anniversary of the clone sex attacks, they had police
out in force, and this is the footage you can see from the 2016 January mass molestation
of women outside the Cologne Cathedral.
Again, police stood down, they lied about it, they put out an NPR-style taxpayer-funded
documentary that said it was white German men responsible for the sex attacks.
Of course, that was complete nonsense.
The government itself admitted that the vast majority, almost all of the attackers were
North African migrants or asylum seekers, were talking women being grabbed, sexually
assaulted, in some cases, raped.
There was a woman who became pregnant after being pinned down and raped.
She had to have an abortion because of this.
Again, this is December 31st, 2015, clone sex attacks.
They tried to cover it up.
The year after they had police out in force and the left said, oh, this is so xenophobic.
How dare you profile the precious Muslim migrants, and yet they turned up again.
The next year they turned up in huge numbers, even after all the negative publicity as a
result of these mass sexual assaults the year before, so that you can't even have police
protecting women from being raped anymore without being called xenophobic in certain
European cities.
So now they've got the Red Cross staffing a safe zone.
Again, this is about segregation.
Segregation of women in major European cities during major events.
This is the Islamization of Western society.
Women who feel harassed will be able to seek help from a special safety zone, which will
be staffed by the German Red Cross.
While organizers will obviously never acknowledge it, the safe zone is blatantly designed to
protect women from sexual assaults by predominantly Muslim migrant men.
Now, if you go to the BBC article, which is linked from my article from Infowars, they
admit that this is a response to events two years ago in Cologne, which have since been
repeated in other cities.
Every time there's a music festival in Sweden, there's a new a number of sexual assaults
of women.
They call for banning old men because again, you can't say exactly what type of men are
doing this because that's xenophobic.
We can't actually crack down on the perpetrators now.
Just blame all men.
Just blame all men.
But even in the BBC article, they admit this is a response to Cologne when, quote, hundreds
of women reported being attacked by gangs of men with migrant backgrounds.
That's not Infowars.
That's the BBC acknowledging that.
Again, despite the fact that they had a documentary, a lefty taxpayer funded documentary in Germany
come out later and say that it was German white men that were responsible and it was
unfair to blame the precious migrants.
So they got the BBC being honest for a change, shocking footage and we were rolling it early.
We can roll that again that later emerged from the night of December 31st, 2015 in Cologne
shows women screaming as they're assaulted with police totally overwhelmed and unable
to properly respond.
One eyewitness, and we did an article about this at the time with the video, it was a
hotel security guard who fought off some of the attackers.
Now, remember, probably some of you will remember this article, they had a hotel security guard,
a big guy.
I don't think he was German.
I think he was an Eastern European who was actually in fist fights with some of these
migrants as the women ran behind him for protection because the police didn't show up for an hour.
So women had to literally run into the doorways of hotels and try to seek refuge there.
He said at the time that police told him the scene resembled a civil war, the few police
that were there at the time when it began.
Some women were pinned down and raped by the migrants with one victim even being impregnated
and later forced to have an abortion.
You can link through to that story in the article.
Despite the unprecedented chaos, the German media failed to report any attacks for days.
There was a huge cover up in mainstream media.
This came out instantly as it was happening on social media, but there was a lockdown
in the German media for days with them denying that this had even happened.
This is the same German media that works directly with the German government to cover up the
identity of migrants when they rape women in both mass mobilization cases and individual
cases across the country.
That was official government policy, remember, to cover up the identity of these rapists
for at least a year in Germany, and they did that for days on end after this mass mobilization,
which was one of the biggest stories of 2015 easily.
And yet they covered it up for days afterwards.
Nobody even knew about it until this deluge of social media reports just became impossible
to ignore.
Police, German police were ordered to subsequently remove the word rape from their initial report.
Again, part of the cover up because at the time Germany was being subjected to this great
cultural enrichment experiment overseen by Angela Merkel, who now herself has basically
admitted that it was a total failure, as have most of her government, her approval rating
is collapsing.
The AFD, the anti-immigration party, swept into third place in the German election because
of this completely failed policy that has seen German violent crime rates surge across
the country.
So they covered it up.
They covered up Cologne.
Cologne's pro-refugee mayor, you'll remember this one, Mayor Henrietta Recker, responded
to the incident by trying to absolve Muslim migrants of blame and was derided for suggesting
that women prevent further attacks by keeping them at arm's length, mob of 20 men surrounding
you as a woman, just keep them at arm's length.
That's the solution, isn't it?
Unbelievable.
German interior minister, Ralph Jager, also asserted that conservatives who criticized
the wave of migrants flooding into the country on internet chat rooms were, quote, just as
awful, as are his words, just as awful as the migrants who sexually molested women.
Absolutely incredible reaction from the German government.
Deny, deny, deny, cover up and then blame the people who are criticizing you.
Blame the people who actually want to stop this from happening again.
Despite virtually all of the perpetrators being asylum seekers and men from migrant backgrounds
and they had to admit, it took them about six months to admit it was true, but they
did eventually, and then the left came out and said, oh, but these aren't refugees, these
aren't asylum seekers, although some of them were, these are people who've been in Germany
for years.
Oh, great.
So these are the supposedly integrated migrants that are doing this.
Well, great.
That makes the problem even worse.
What are you talking about?
So after it was revealed, after they had to admit after about six months that it was
mainly migrants, North African migrants, Germany's public broadcaster later released
a documentary claiming the migrants were wrongly accused and that the real perpetrators were
white German men.
We saw this elsewhere in Germany as well when the crime stats came out, when it came out
that violent crimes against women particularly were through the roof and they did the same
thing in Norway.
So it's like Norwegian drinking culture that's responsible for this.
Again, complete cover up.
Feminist groups in Cologne, you may remember this video, also responded by visiting the
local refugee centre literally the day after and handing out roses to some of the very
same migrants who may have been involved in the attacks in order to apologize for xenophobia.
So that was their first instinct after what was it up to a thousand women raped, sexually
assaulted, groped, the local feminist chapter in Cologne, their first instinct was not to
go on marches, decrying this, demanding it never happen again.
No, it was to go to the migrant centre and give them flowers.
And anyone who criticizes this was bad, we're bad for saying this that you can't sexually
assault women on mass, we're bad.
Where's xenophobic, give roses to the actual migrants, some of whom would have been involved
in these attacks.
Again, this is the fetishization of Islam, the alliance between the far left and Islam
and that's seen no greater than in Germany itself.
Now as I mentioned earlier, the following year, of course they thought this was going
to happen again, we'll get into what happened the following year, this is the Alex Show
Show live break news at infowars.com, don't go.
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for
some unique holiday gift ideas, that's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products
for the archer, hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family.
Now through January, use the promo code holiday to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada.
And from all of us at slingbow industries, have a safe, joyous and peaceful holiday season.
Hello Mr. Anderson, the NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Tired of your internet activity being monitored by big brother, get virtualshield.com.
The world's easiest to use virtual private network.
Browse the web anonymously, leaving pesky advertisers and spies in the dust.
Get started today at virtualshield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30 day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Excuse me sir, could you please take a picture of my family and me with my cell phone?
Sure Mrs. Anderson, smile for the camera.
Too bad hackers never get proper permission to access your cell phone or computer camera.
Anyone is or could be susceptible to illegal spying.
That's why virtualshield.com has developed IdentitySafe, a new security software that
blocks camera and microphone access from unwanted spies.
Get started today at virtualshield.com.
Take advantage of our free 30 day trial, virtualshield.com.
You have the right to remain private.
Introducing FloraLife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
Gut probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases
directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
FloraLife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity,
immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
FloraLife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of FloraLife probiotics today.
That's InfoWarsLife.com.
I'm so excited.
The new product, InfoWarsLife.com, in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the
brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae, working with scientists and developers, non-GMO, made
right here in America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglinone to it,
which is the precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the
hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at InfoWarsStore.com and your purchase, FuzzyOperation.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign, and domestic.
Alex Jones, live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide from the InfoWars.com studios.
Well, live it is, December 29, 2017, as we edge closer to 2018, we're talking about a
top story up at InfoWars.com, where German women in Berlin have been offered the use
of safety zones during the New Year's Eve celebrations coming up here in a couple of
days' time, ostensibly to protect them from migrant sex attacks.
We've gone through the history, we've pointed out that last year there was a huge police
presence at Cologne, and these are the cities where, again, these migrant men turned up in
their hundreds, looking for what, a repeat of the same thing that happened the year before
in Cologne, when there were numerous sexual assaults, absolutely horrific rapes of women.
That's now looking like it may happen again, potentially.
So they're setting up these migrant, these women's safe zones to protect them from Muslim
migrants ostensibly in Berlin, there at the Brandenburg Gate and iconic site.
But again, you know, I don't understand, but we're told that Muslim migrants are peaceful,
they respect women.
So why do women need safe zones to prevent them from being sexually assaulted in major
European cities?
It doesn't make sense to me.
Jack Montgomery tweeted about this story, sharia by the back door, women-only party
zones in Germany, women-only concerts in Sweden, women-only train carriages in Britain, that's
being proposed, Westerners are being persuaded to accept Islamic cultural norms in the name
of public safety.
Again, it's all about bending over backwards to their culture, even though some cultures
are better than others, it's about complete capitulation.
And indeed, they asked a professor after the Cologne sex attacks in 2015, what he thought
it was all about.
He said the attacks were meant to send a message to Europeans that they cannot protect their
women.
That was the psychological aspect behind it.
According to that professor, now we're seeing again, bending over backwards.
Not any national conversation about should we stop importing millions of these people
every year.
They've had to do that actually in Germany now just because of the backlash.
But again, that's not the conversation.
The conversation is about again, bending over backwards, creating safety zone.
We don't need safety zones in major European cities during major celebratory events, New
Year's Eve.
We should not need that in Western countries.
This is not Egypt.
This is not Tahir Square for God's sake.
But again, it's about acquiescing to an invasive culture, not reasserting our own culture and
taking a look at these immigration policies that have caused this problem in the first
place.
No, we can't talk about that because as the feminist said, who gave out roses to migrants
the day after the mass militarization in Cologne, that would be xenophobic.
We have to have safe spaces.
Well, Viktor Orban has set up a similar of safe space.
It's called Hungary.
This is out of Breitbart, except the will of the people on migration, culture or hit
the road.
Orban tells Europe's leaders, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said that Europeans
are asserting their will by supporting leaders who reject mass migration and support Christian
foundations and gave warning to politicians who deny the natural order of democracy.
Of course, he's in alliance now with these other countries, especially Austria, Czech
Republic and others that have this alliance, which is based around rejecting mass immigration.
You don't see terror attacks in Austria.
You don't see terror attacks in Hungary.
You don't see mass molestations of women in Hungary either.
The conservative Fidez party leader told Kossel the radio listeners that 2.3 million Hungarians
took part in the national consultation against the George Soros-backed pro-mass migration
plan and Mr. Orban now intends to spend the next few months convincing his opponents that
Europe is right to protect her borders and her culture.
So will he be successful in using his own country as an example to say, look, we're
peaceful.
Women can walk down the street at night without fear of being accosted and assaulted.
Do you want to be like us or do you want to continue down this path of disaster, of cultural
suicide?
Asked by the 180-minute host what made him think that after two years, since the migrant
crisis, progressive leaders would listen now, Mr. Orban said, because in the meantime elections
are being held in Europe, those who argue for a mixed population and to abolish societies
based on national and Christian foundations in favour of living in multicultural societies
are continually losing ground in national elections, Orban observed, because we saw
that in no greater example than in Germany a couple of months ago with the AFD surging
into third place, he went on to say European people will assert their will.
Look at the elections that have been held in Europe over the last few months, I think
this process will intensify.
So Victor Orban set up a safe zone for women, it's called the entire country of Hungary
because he's not following the same disastrous policies that created these problems in the
first place.
London on the other hand, different story.
This is also out of Breitbart headline, delivery drivers reveal London no-go zones made too
dangerous to work by acid attacks and knife crimes.
Of course we had postal workers in Sweden repeatedly a few months ago and again more
recently come out and say look we can't do deliveries to certain no-go zones in Sweden
which don't exist according to the left in the media, Euro-Xenophobia or bigger if you
say they do, but the delivery drivers in Sweden are saying we're not going to go here.
The police are installing microphones on the streets to pick up the screaming of women
being raped because they can't have police stations in the area because they just get
attacked and fire bombed.
But again it's all conspiracy theory, no-go zones don't exist.
Well delivery drivers have branded large parts of London no-go zones in which acid attacks
and rampant knife crime have made them too fearful to work.
Again the no-go zones that they say don't exist, you're a conspiracy theorist as enophobic
bigger if you say they do exist.
The frequency of assaults using carotid liquid in the city, officially the world capital
of reported acid attacks has left drivers choosing to take a big pay cut rather than
braving dangerous areas of London at night.
So this would be very lucrative for some of these drivers but they're saying we're just
not going to do this, it's too dangerous now.
A quote, we used to work till 2am, now people are stopping before 10pm one moped driver
revealed to the sun, after 8pm or 9pm we're not going to those dangerous places.
Now they found out what exactly areas they refused to go to and well imagine my shock,
it was Hackney, it was Stoke Newington, Boroughs which local MP Diane Abbott both saw ethnically
drivers, noting just 36% of residents describe themselves as white British.
Another area described as one to avoid by the drivers is Bess Null Green in East London
which lies in the corruption plagued Islamist connected borough of Tower Hamlets, again
where the white population is basically shrunk to about 30%, white people, white British
people are a minority in London across the entire city.
These are the areas in which these acid attacks are taking place, also named by the drivers
were regenerated regions such as Elephant and Castle and Stratford, the latter of which
police say is hit by child sex grooming gangs, so again, you know, diverse culturally enriched
lovely places to live, sex grooming gangs, acid attacks and the like.
US President Donald J. Trump has previously called attention to some of the problems faced
by Britain and its capital city as a result of mass immigration, especially that of terror
attacks committed by Islamic extremists and of course, what was the reaction to that?
Well, the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, who calls London a beacon of diversity said that
Donald Trump was not welcome because he dared to tell the truth.
We'll be back on the Alex Jones show live in the next segment breaking news at infowars.com.
Don't go away.
It's a no brainer, a big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine
disruptors, pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon, get the original most trusted name in gravity
water filtration, Big Berkey.
And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN, call or click
1-877-99-Berkey or bigberkeywaterfilters.com.
That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
This is Dan Pillon.
Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay?
Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years.
I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless
case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX, that's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpillon.com.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Use your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
2017 has been a earth-shaking year.
In 2018, guaranteed is even going to be wilder.
In fact, my good friend Steph Ann Malanou said it's going to be like the battle of the
gods, Ragnarok, so get ready, ladies and gentlemen.
And that's why, thanking you for all your support, we are extending free shipping store-wide
at infowarsstore.com into early January and the massive 50 to 67% off all our best-selling
items.
So, ladies and gentlemen, whether it's colloidal silver, or brain force, or mycozx, or fluorolife,
they're now back in stock.
They're all massively discounted with free shipping at infowarsstore.com.
Take advantage of it right through the new year in a salute to the infowars, and in to
a thanks to all of you that have made this operation possible.
From myself, the entire info wars crew, thank you for your support, thank you for bringing
America back from the edge of death, and thank you for standing against the globalists and
their bullying garbage.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind super blue fluoride-free products.
Fresh Life brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano silver, and iodine.
Notice the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products.
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarstore.com.
That's infowarstore.com.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones show before we get back into the news and when I tell you about
some of the massive discounts we have at infowarstore.com with the new year's extended
specials.
We're still running these, it's time to start your new year, right?
We're extending some of the best specials of the year to help you start 2018 in the
right way.
With free shipping, you can put your best foot forward and spend less to achieve your
resolution for a healthier life, help support the show, and ring in the new year with these
incredible extended specials.
We have Myco ZX back in stock, 25% off, free shipping, super male vitality, 50% off.
That is huge with free shipping, silver bullet, even bigger discount, 67% off with free shipping
and again, Brainforce Plus, the one that the left really gets triggered by whenever I talk
about it, even though I take it and it's really good and it really helps me.
Brainforce Plus, 50% off right now with free shipping at infowarstore.com.
That is really the product that I personally recommend with pleasure.
Out for power is 50% off, we're going to talk about that in a minute as well.
Male force is 50% off, number of other massive discounts right now.
Get all these and much more with free shipping again, free shipping on all of these discounts
at infowarstore.com.
That is the new year's extended specials.
Alpha Power is the newest supplement in the Infowars Life line.
It's available to you right now at 50% off.
The brand new vitality formula developed to help boost your performance and energy levels.
It's got a powerful set of ingredients, all natural ingredients including niacin, zinc,
LJ100, organic macaroot concentrate, honey goatweed, leaf and stem.
This is absolutely packed.
Alpha Power works synergistically with super male vitality to help you become a true alpha
male and take charge of your energy to defy age.
You can try the super alpha male combo pack and receive 50% off of each when you buy them
together.
That's a double discount.
Don't fall short on energy in the fight against age and globalist tyranny.
Show the world what a true alpha male looks like today with Alpha Power from Infowars
Store.com.
Again, massive discounts.
Please continue to support this network.
You've done great in doing that in 2017.
Help us get to the next level in 2018 by getting all the great products at infowarstore.com.
I want to finish up with some of the cultural enrichment news.
I often say some cultures are better than others.
Now we have this headline out of the independent Pakistani woman gang raped on orders of village
council after marrying man of her choice.
Sounds really reasonable.
That doesn't it.
A woman in Pakistan has been gang raped on the orders of a village council after she
married a man of her own choice according to local media.
The alleged assault occurred in a city district.
I cannot pronounce and won't even attempt to do so.
Near Faisalabad, less than 100 miles from Pakistan's border with India, they expressed
Tribune reported.
News have reportedly arrested three suspects, including two brothers, over the rape of the
19-year-old woman.
The teenager said in a press conference her father had brought her back home after village
council members promised the family could give her away in a traditional ceremony.
Again, this is the culture we're importing into the West and the left says it's so progressive.
But the council allegedly kept her captive and allowed three men to rape her.
Again, perfectly reasonable.
The news channel reported she later escaped captivity.
DNA testing reportedly confirmed she was gang raped, a family of appeal to authorities
to hold the council members responsible.
But again, maybe that's just part of their culture.
We shouldn't be xenophobic bigots and say that gang raping women as a punishment for
them wanting to marry the husband of their choice is a bad thing.
No, we should be progressive.
We should tolerate that.
Not just tolerate it.
Let's bring it in.
Let's start saying that the hijab is a symbol of feminism, even though the very first feminist
groups in the Middle East tore it off in protest, even though people in ISIS-occupied areas
of Syria and Iraq, the first thing they do when they're liberated from ISIS is remove
the hijab.
No, it's progressive.
We should tolerate it, not just tolerate it, but promote it.
Now, we have gang rape being sanctioned by local councils, and this has obviously been
happening for decades.
In Pakistan, so why do you think when we import these people, they think it's perfectly fine
to sexually assault women who don't wear the veil, but then let's fetishize the veil.
Let's embrace it, which is what the left is doing.
Let's have Barbie dolls released, hijab Barbie to normalize it all, when this is the culture
from which it emerges.
Now, I've quoted Muslim reformists, people who were in a position to know and say, no,
this is the modesty culture.
The gang rape springs from the exact same well that the hijab does.
But no, let's embrace the hijab.
Let's exalt Linda Sarsour as the leader of the resistance, even as she tweets about
removing the vagina of her critics of Ayan Hirsi Ali, who's been targeted to death, for
death by Islamic extremists.
No, let's exalt those people.
Let's buy hijab Barbie, and let's normalize all this.
That's what the left wants to do.
That's why they've allied with Islamists.
That's why ISIS in its own manifesto said, hey, we broadly share the same goals that
the far left in America does.
They want to bring down America.
They want to bring down the capitalist system.
So do we.
Let's recruit them.
Let's give them weapons.
That was in their own propaganda leaflet that they put out.
We reported on it.
Then you had, of course, the FBI field member, which we reported on, where they said, Antifa
members were going out to Syria and other places and meeting with Islamic terrorists
for training.
That was an FBI field manual.
We put it in a recent article about that subject.
So that's why they're aligning because they broadly share the same beliefs, because I'm
not talking about liberals.
I'm talking about the far left, the militant Antifa types broadly sharing the same goals,
the destruction of Western civilization as Islamic radicals.
So is it any surprise that they're glorifying, that they're embracing, that they're promoting
this kind of modesty culture that leads to the gang rape of women by local council decree
in countries like Pakistan?
Some cultures are better than others.
CNBC reports terror attacks are likely to increase in 2018 with ISIS and al Qaeda both
still dangerous.
The caliphate may be in ruins, but that doesn't mean ISIS is gone forever.
Terror attacks are likely to increase in 2018 as the destruction of the Islamic State's
physical stronghold in Iraq and Syria will strengthen its will to strike out abroad,
experts say.
ISIS will want to show that they're still in the fight and their followers remain as
fanatical as ever, said Louis VIII, a former British Army intelligence officer.
The number of attacks globally will likely increase as the group switches focus from
the war in the Middle East to international terrorism.
Adam Dean, Executive Director of the Counter-extremism think tank Quillian, makes a similar argument.
He said, quote, we're going to see without a doubt more attacks in the West.
Dean said ISIS is now more focused on revenge and warned against the false sense of victory
that many expressed after the death of Osama bin Laden.
So ISIS is losing its territory in Syria and Iraq thanks to Trump dropping bombs on them
rather than leaflets, which is what the Obama administration did.
So they're all making their way back to the European countries from which they emerged.
And we're letting them in, we're rolling out the red carpet and say, by all means, not
only come back in, but we'll give you welfare, we'll give you housing, we'll give you jobs.
Meanwhile, people who've actually lived in Britain and fought for Britain in sporting
events, patriotic people are being deported.
Oh, but if you're an ISIS jihadist, you can come straight back in, you know, Sadiq Khan
says Donald Trump's not welcome, while literally he's over 400 ISIS jihadists have poured
back into the UK while we face this unprecedented threat, while we have jihadists roaming the
streets after three major terror attacks this year in the UK alone.
Now we have the highest proportion of ISIS jihadists being allowed back into the country.
Insanity.
We'll be back in the next segment to talk about it.
We'll also talk about what happened in Cairo today when more Christians were massacred
by an Islamic extremist.
This is the ideology that we're importing in the West, that the far left is embracing.
It has to stop.
This is the Alex Giorgio Library News at infowars.com.
We'll be back.
We'll be back, don't worry.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars, biome defense
probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have
been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defense is an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over
23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading
probiotic on the market.
For your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength, at infowarslife.com today
and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first round of the
public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info
war.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by info wars life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so
you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste, use carnivore by info wars life.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now, that's infowarslife.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Remember the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air.
Another Matt, go ahead.
Yeah, hey listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of Info Wars
and I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely
fantastic and that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the Info War.
It might seem like a simple thing but they particularly these slogan t-shirts that you
guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well thank you, my favorite new one is the don't tread on me but said it says won't tread
on me and it's a big day glow snake, Gadsden snake and then it's got the American flag
infowars.com on the right arm.
I mean that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise
free speech.
The newest one is trigger warning t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt which is the symbol
of a trigger with a yield sign and then infowars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the month available exclusively at infowarsstore.com.
We are listening to the Alex Jones show.
Alex Jones, the cure to fake news coming to you live from Austin, Texas.
We're live, it is the Alex Jones show December 29, 2017 edition before you get back into
the news.
I want to tell you about two great products we have at infowarsstore.com and this really
helps us out when you get these products.
We have the real red pill, 50% off for the holiday season, it's part of that New Year's
discount special.
Other competitors products are as much as $100 but we're excited about this formula
so we want you to try it a two month supply for only $39.95 so it's basically less than
$20 a month supply for this.
Without the essential building blocks, amino acids and hormone precursor, pregnenolone,
your body is unable to even create the basic hormones it needs to operate.
This is the true ultimate building block, the missing link that is overlooked across
the board, consulting top scientists, physicians, researchers, we have put together the real
red pill.
It's one of a kind, all new heart and brain formula designed specifically and exclusively
for infowars life.
The main ingredient here is pregnenolone, a little known neuro steroid with so much
potential and science behind it.
Pregnenolone levels decrease with age, studies have shown that levels can decline by as much
as 60% between the ages of 20 and 75.
So without these essential building blocks, your body lacks what it needs to function
at optimal levels and studies have shown that low levels of pregnenolone are associated
with fatigue, low brain function and unhealthy aging.
So this is really going to give you the boost that you need, it's going to give you that
missing ingredient that your body just doesn't have.
Now, although it's called a neuro steroid, it's actually totally safe, pregnenolone
is generally regarded as safe in the US and allowed for all athletes internationally
by the World Anti-Doping Agency.
The real red pill also provides, we always pack these products with it as much as we
can.
It also provides essential trace minerals and B vitamins that are all required for
optimal cognitive function and heart health.
I need to get some of this ASAP, these vitamins and minerals work synergistically with pregnenolone
to deliver results that you will have to experience for yourself to believe.
Look at the five star reviews over at InfowarsStore.com again, their independent third-party reviews
overseen by a third-party site, not ours, we can't just delete bad reviews if we get
them, they are the best reviews because that's organically what people are saying about
this product.
It is the real red pill, 50% off for the holiday season, again, support this network by getting
the real red pill at InfowarsStore.com.
We also have Carnivore, the all-new enzyme formula, which is 33% off again as part of
the Christmas special.
Fuel your body with Carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfowarsLife at 33% off
again.
Combining that with the healthy heart, the cognitive functioning, the digestive enzyme
assist that you get with this product, again, is key in the digestion process, increases
the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
Again, that's a major issue.
With food, sometimes you can't get the nutrients or vitamins out of it because your body can't
break them down.
Sometimes they're toxic in some cases, so this helps the body with that function.
Digestive enzymes also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of
undigested food particles in the gut, so if you've got a problem with the stomach pains
in digestion, then this could be a big help for you.
It is Carnivore, 33% off with the Christmas special discount right now at InfowarsStore.com.
Please support this network as it's under constant attack by getting the products.
Again, I'm at this point over and over again.
The reason they were able to take down other networks or at least hamstring them is because
those networks were dependent on outside advertising.
I'm talking about the likes of Breitbart when they have huge leftist, autistic, screeching
boycott campaigns against certain news outlets, against certain companies, they're successful
to a certain extent because those outside advertisers just cave to the pressure.
They don't know that it's an organized boycott, they just freak out and pull their advertising.
We're not reliant on that.
We're not dependent on that because we have these products in-house.
We're only dependent on you, and you as our audience, we know you're not going to be influenced
by unhinged, screeching leftist outrage mobs that try and bring down different opinions
by sabotaging them financially.
Of course, we've had that happen in other areas, but not with the products because we're
only dependent on you, and that is why we appreciate you getting those products at InfowarsStore.com.
Let's get back into a few news stories.
I'm going to save the freak out over Trump's global warming tweet until the top of the
hour because that's going to be a long one.
Let's get into a few small stories right now.
Government kills nine in attack on Egypt Church.
Again, the Coptic Christians being slaughtered.
This is barely even a news story anymore because it becomes so prevalent.
A government open fire on a church south of Cairo on Friday killing at least nine people.
In the latest apparently, he had his attack on the country's Christian minority.
Again, people don't care about minorities when they're not Muslims or in other cases,
but faith when it's Christians, who cares, right?
They're Christians.
That's the general attitude amongst many on the left because these attacks are so common
place now.
They're being ignored.
Health Ministry spokesman Khalid Magad said, to state television, the gunman was shot dead
after killing nine people and wounding others, including a police officer.
But the Interior Ministry said in a statement that the assailant wanted jihadists implicated
in attacks on police had been wounded and arrested.
One footage posted on social media appeared to show the bearded gunman wearing a bulky
ammunition vest sprawled on a street, barely conscious as people restrained his arms and
then handcuffed him.
The Islamic state group's affiliate in Egypt has killed dozens of Christians in church bombings
and shootings over the past year and has threatened further attacks against the minority.
Again, huge amounts of Christians being driven out of the Middle East, being driven out of
North Africa, and again, it's barely a footnote.
What's the biggest story of the year?
Oh, it's the Me Too movement.
This has never been the biggest story of the year.
It's been the biggest story of the year for the past 10 years, even since the Iraq war
when Christians were driven out of the region.
But again, now it's barely a footnote.
Spotnik News reports, US reportedly evacuates Daesh leaders, that's ISIS.
I don't know why news organizations continue to use the term Daesh because it just confuses
people.
It's ISIS.
Leaders from Syria's Dayazor region again, US helicopters have evacuated ISIS leaders
from several areas across the Syrian province of Dayazor to the country's northeast, Syria's
Sana'at news agency has reported.
Now, remember a few days ago, we had the Russian general come out and say, why are ISIS Jihad
is still being trained by the US military in Syria?
We've got elements of the deep state, which Trump obviously has no control over, that
still wants to overthrow Assad as part of that disastrous regime change policy that Hillary
Clinton and Obama were following.
And in some areas, they're still training and protecting ISIS Jihadists.
Remember the whole, oh, should we arm the Syrian rebels debate when the Syrian rebels
were in alliance to, were defecting to ISIS for years while that was still going on?
Well, now it appears that they're protecting them.
They're evacuating them.
They're getting them to safety to get medical treatment.
The article continues, Sana'a reported that according to residents, the Jihadists were
evacuated Wednesday and flown to safety in Al-Hassika province, much of which is presently
under the control of Kurdish and US forces.
Sources said that several US helicopters had conducted low altitude flights into the
Alsat camp for temporarily displaced persons landing near the Al-Hassika dam in southern
Al-Hassika province, bringing in terrorist leaders reported to have joined a new group
of militants supported and organized by the US.
So obviously they're going to label them something different than ISIS and say, oh, these are
the moderates.
They're still Jihadists.
They're all Jihadists.
They're all in league with each other.
They either fight each other to see who can control the caliphate or they're just defected
to each other.
And in some cases, it appears that the US elements of the deep state are still not only training
but protecting those rebels when they need medical treatment.
In recent months, the Syrian government has repeatedly accused Washington of providing
various forms of support for ISIS and other terrorist groups operating in Syria, including
intelligence which allowed militants to attack Syrian army positions.
So again, they're giving intelligence to the terrorists who are attacking the Syrian army.
According to Damascus, US air power has been used on numerous occasions to rescue terrorist
leaders from their imminent destruction at the hands of the Syrian army and even to stage
accidental attacks on Syrian forces as they advanced against the militants.
So because back at the start of the year, we had this huge furore over Trump bombing
the Syrian airfield.
Again, that was his deep state handlers convincing him to follow the same disastrous policy that
Obama and Hillary Clinton have been following, that the likes of John McCain support too.
It appears that at least in some areas of Syria, that policy is continuing with these
rescues of ISIS fighters but they're just going to label them moderate rebels, they're
going to call them by a different name and everyone's going to look the other way.
But certainly Syria and Russia are ringing the alarm bell over it once again.
We'll be back in the next segment of the Alex Jones Show to talk about how the left is
freaking out over, you guessed it, Donald Trump's tweet once again.
We'll be back, don't go away.
We have developed with the top firms in the United States powerful 50 billion live organism
probiotic fluorolive that is so critical to having a healthy gut and a healthy life and
that has changed my life and so many other people's lives.
The other part is a compound like Myco ZX that has all these key ingredients of organic
herbs and other systems that are known to break down this garbage in the body.
That's why as we go through Christmas and now into the new year, we're extending the
free shipping and 50% off on all our bestselling items while supplies last.
You can also get the two products together and get them at 50% off when you combo them.
So popular, sold out for more than six months.
Now back in stock for limited time at InfoWarsStore.com, InfoWarsLive.com or by calling toll-free
AAA-2533139.
Introducing Fluorolive, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLive after
years of research on the human microbiome.
Not all probiotics are made the same.
Fluorolive probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach
and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted
delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolive supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity,
immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Fluorolive is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care, and a 50 billion
probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfoWarsLive.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolive probiotics today, that's InfoWarsLive.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
We're live, and once again, Donald J. Trump has trolled the left with one of his tweets
and seized control of the news narrative.
This headline is up on InfoWars.com.
Trump global warming tweet prompts mass triggering.
President Trump's tweet poking fun at global warming alarmists has prompted a mass triggering
with the blue check Mark Brigade, once again, losing its stuff over Trump trolling.
Trump tweeted the following late last night, here's the tweet, from Donald J. Trump.
He said, quote, in the East, it could be the coldest New Year's Eve on record.
Perhaps we could use a little bit of that good old global warming that our country,
but not other countries, was going to pay trillions of dollars to protect against.
Bundle up.
Oh, you can imagine the seething, autistic screeching that immediately followed this
tweet.
A selection of those tweets in this article, and again, this is the overarching point.
They use weather to prove global warming when it goes in their favor.
Whenever we have a hot summer, whenever we have a heat wave, the left, the global warming
alarmist pointed at it and say, oh, look, this is proof of global warming.
It's so hot.
Trump does the same, the same thing, but on the flip side said, look how cold it is.
Maybe we need some more global warming.
They say, how dare you?
You're unscientific.
Bigger.
How dare you claim that weather has any relation to long-term climatic trends?
That's what they do every single frigging summer.
In fact, you had Chris Silesa from CNN tweet in response to this.
He said, quote, by the Trump logic, a warm summer would be in controversial evidence
that climate change is real.
That's literally what the left claims every time there's a warm summer, they want to have
their cake and eat it.
Of course, they also claim that cold winters are part of global warming.
They claim that mild winters are part of global warming, just any weather whatsoever, any
kind of hurricane season, any kind of extreme weather event, whether there are a few of
them, whether there are lots of them.
Either way, it all proves that man-made global warming is real and you need to give us your
tax money to sort it out.
You need to give us those lucrative government grants over and over again.
You need to pay those exorbitant, soaring electricity bills.
I, Spain, look at Spain, for example, they had a green economy all based around this
pseudo-scientific fraud, 25% unemployment rate.
That's what it resulted in.
It resulted in a 50% unemployment rate for young people.
They've got abandoned factories all over the country crumbling, falling apart, and they're
all reliant on green energy, which is largely useless.
It takes more energy to power a wind turbine than the actual energy you get from it.
And what's the result?
Exorbitant, skyrocketing electricity prices.
I have to pay my parents' electricity bill because they can't even afford to pay it on
their pension.
They live in Spain.
Only out of control.
But now Trump dares tweet about it in a jokey fashion and the Blue Checkmark Brigade just
lose their stuff.
I mean, let's go back to this article.
Let's see some of these responses, the mass triggering.
Daniel Dale said it's funny when Trump made his Paris court announcement, the White House
evaded for days as reporters asked whether the president still believes global warming
is fake.
He just tweeted it out.
David Frum.
This is what David Frum said.
Now bear in mind, David Frum is a neocon.
He was George W. Bosch's speech writer before the invasion of Iraq.
He responded to this, and this is a funny thing that you see now.
All these neocons trying to come back to prominence, having had their ideas completely annihilated
by the course of history, they're trying to come back to prominence by ingratiating themselves
with the far left.
David Frum said, when the alien archeologists study the ruins of human civilization, this
will take a prominent place in their notebooks.
That's George W. Bosch's speech writer for the invasion of Iraq.
You know, if anyone knows about ruining civilizations, it's David Frum.
Unbelievable, we'll get more into this.
On the other side, this is the Alex Cherm Show, why breaking news at infowars.com.
Don't go away.
Mike in Arizona here on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save
America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force
Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex.
Thank you.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the infowars life products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all as educated patriots help our other countrymen and women understand
that there's a bigger problems going on and if we can get our houses in order and be good
to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
Whenever we have a hot summer, whenever we have a heat wave, the left sides it as proof
that manmade global warming is real, that we need to hand over more of our tax dollars
to solve it, that we need to support the scientists who get by with lucrative government grants
year after year after year, pushing this pseudo science.
So weather proves global warming if it's hot and if you're arguing for manmade global
warming, but try and flip that around and say, look how cold it is, doesn't this disprove
global warming?
How dare you challenge our orthodoxy, they will come after you.
This is what's happening right now in the aftermath of this Donald Trump tweet.
We have Al Gore, of course, who was one of the cult leaders for this entire ideology
stretching back over a decade now.
Al Gore came out and predicted over and over again that the North Pole would be completely
ice free.
He's been proven wrong again and again and again, which is the point.
All these climate scientists, Al Gore, whoever you want to look at, Paul Ehrlich, all of them,
going back to the 60s, they all predicted catastrophe and they all cited certain dates
by which that catastrophe would happen.
None of it happened.
They were caught lying, deceiving over and over again.
Why is anyone still listening to these people?
I remember being a kid, being like eight, nine, 10 years old, and hearing on the news,
oh, the North of England is going to be like the South of France within 15 years, but complete
BS.
Obviously, you have minor fluctuations in temperature.
You have big fluctuations in temperature in climate, depending on the behavior, the activity
of the sun, which is the biggest driver of climate.
Even the UN's own reports, even their own bias reports, say that human activities responsible
for about 6% of temperature change over the course of about 100 years.
Even those figures are skewed.
We have the decline scandal, the whole climate gate issue, where they were caught changing
temperature measurements to fit in with their doctrine.
These are liars.
These are deceivers.
These are pseudo scientists.
We have this article out of Gateway Pundit.
We flashed back to this every year because he's been proven wrong every single year.
Nine years ago, Al Gore predicted North Pole would be completely ice-free by today.
Nine years ago this month, Al Gore predicted the North Polar Ice Cap would be completely
ice-free in five years.
Gore made the prediction to a German audience in 2008.
He told them the entire North Polar Ice Cap will disappear in five years.
In fact, we have a video of this, which we can go to in a second, where he made the same
prediction in 2009 that the North Polar Ice Cap would be completely ice-free, would be
completely disappeared, melted, by now.
It didn't happen.
Let's go to this clip.
This is from 2009.
This is Al Gore.
Here it is.
Some of the models suggest to Dr. Mazlowski that there is a 75% chance that the entire
North Polar Ice Cap during some of the summer months could be completely ice-free within
the next five to seven years.
Within the next five to seven years, again, that was 2009, so he said by 2016, 2017, the
North Pole would be completely ice-free in the summer, it would be completely melted.
He said that for numerous different years as well.
It didn't happen.
In fact, at the end of the summer this year, we had this article out of zero hedge in convenient
record Arctic sea ice growth in September.
So again, you've had the same thing for the Arctic, the North Pole.
We've had expansions, rapid expansions in sea ice, depending, again, on the behavior,
the activity of the sun.
Yes, sometimes it shrinks down, sometimes it rapidly expands.
But again, we're seeing it again after this Trump tweet where they're all claiming, oh,
the weather's not proof of climate change, oh, but it is if we say it is in summer, because
that goes in our favor.
What's up with that, which is a scientific blog, breaks it down with a headline, record
breaking winter cold.
Don't worry, the climate explainers have it covered.
The article reads, does record breaking winter cold cast doubt on climate predictions of
milder winters?
So again, remember, global warming was supposed to bring us milder winters.
Should any weather or climate shift cast doubt on the dominance of that wicked little trace
molecule, carbon dioxide, apparently not according to leading climate explainers.
It's cold outside, but that doesn't mean climate change isn't real.
That's a headline out of USA Today.
So what happens if global temperatures take a real plunge for a sustained period?
Don't worry, the explainers have that one covered as well, but they've got everything
covered.
It's cold, it's mild, it's hot.
Extreme weather events, no extreme weather events have got it all covered.
It's all global warming.
Whatever happens, just conveniently, it's all global warming.
Shut up, don't talk about it, you're a denier.
James Hansen.
Now he was on this whole Gaia train where they basically said that part of the human
population may need to be wiped out for the good of the earth.
James Hansen, former NASA GISS director, published a paper which suggests global warming will
trigger a short ice age in the near future.
If we get an ice age, that's also because of global warming and your sinful lifestyle.
It's your fault for having too many hot baths, as Prince Charles once said while he lives
in opulent luxury in mansions around the world.
They've got all the bases covered.
Global warming is an infinitely flexible, unscientific, unfalsifiable theory which can
be stretched to accommodate any observation.
Some climate scientists even shamelessly reject the very concept of scientific falsification
with regards to the conduct of climate science.
So no matter what happens to the weather, the climate explainer shamelessly cobbled together
an explanation which blames bad weather on your sinful lifestyle.
It's all your fault and whatever the weather does, that's proof of global warming.
Whatever the observation, the climate explainers have their theory, their infinitely adaptable
theory which they claim is science.
Warm weather confirms their worst fears.
Cold weather is waved away.
Whatever the observation, the explainer shamelessly adapt their theory to provide an explanation
based on their scientific theory which cannot be falsified by any conceivable observations
even in a brook plunge into a new ice age.
So even if we had a new ice age that lasted for decades, they would still continue to insist
that global warming was responsible, oh and by the way, these are the same people who
back in the 70s, you had Time Magazine, Newsweek, a front page cover stories about this who back
in the 70s were saying that there was going to be a massive trend of global cooling, that
that was what humanity was responsible for, that's what we had to tackle in the decades
going forward.
And again, proven spectacularly wrong, so why is anyone listening to them now?
Look at this headline out of the sky, new scientists predict mini ice age could hit
UK by 2030, a mini ice age that would freeze major rivers, could hit Britain in less than
two decades, according to research from universities in the UK and Russia, they see a flashback
headline where they predicted a global cooling back in the 70s were proven completely wrong.
But now a mathematical model of the sun's magnetic activity again, the sun is the main
driver of climate suggests temperatures could start dropping here from 2021 with the potential
for winter skating on the River Thames by 2030.
When did we last have skating on the River Thames?
It was during the last mini ice age, what now 400 years ago, where we have artist representations
of people ice skating on the River Thames in London, because it was a period called the
Mourn de Minimum where sun activity was low.
Again, the sun is the main driver of the climate, a team led by math professor Valentina Zarkova
at Northumbria University built on work from Moscow to predict the movements of two magnetic
waves produced by the sun, it predicts rapidly decreasing magnetic waves for three solar cycles
beginning in 2021, the lasting 33 years, very low magnetic activity on the sun corresponds
with historically documented cold periods on Earth.
You could go through history, hundreds and hundreds of years ago, we swung wildly between
warm periods and cold periods, they see Time Magazine, the global warming survival guide.
The current propaganda phase is global warming.
If we have a mini ice age, they'll just switch it back and say, oh, by the way, you're also
responsible for this.
Whatever happens, ice age, heat wave, cold weather, hot weather, you're to blame, give
us your money, stop having hot baths, wear the elite, we're going to tell you how to
live your life, while we live in opulent luxury, screw you, that's basically the message.
This is the Alex Jones Show, I will be back with more news after the break, breaking news
at infowars.com, don't go away.
Heart disease is on the rise, clogged arteries, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels
may not be fully detected by you, but the symptoms are there.
Loss of energy, blood sugar, spikes and drops, poor circulation and irregular heartbeat are
just a few of these that can alert you that something is wrong.
Here how heart and body extract is making a difference in thousands of people's lives
across America.
Enter your two month supply today by calling 866-295-5305 or order online hbextract.com.
Heart and body extract 866-295-5305 or hbextract.com.
The answer to being in control of your own healthcare is freedom from insurance.
Become part of a group of self-pay patients that come together to share in each other's
medical expenses.
People share amounts begin at $107 a month and $347 for families.
Choose from three health sharing programs.
Holistic treatment may be eligible for sharing.
See guidelines.
Discount programs available for dental, vision and pharmacy.
Go to libertyoncall.org.
That's libertyoncall.org.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still
alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk and no penalties.
Call life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without
the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract.
It gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
I want to plow into all of this, but I'm gonna spend a few minutes here first just encouraging
listeners to understand that when you buy t-shirts or water filtration systems or books
or videos or other material from infowarstore.com, you are funding the revolution.
I mean, I cannot say it any clearer.
And so it is essential that you purchase the products at infowarstore.com.
I don't want to thank everybody that has, but we've got the best fluoride-free toothpaste
with colloidal silver and with high quality atomic iodide in it.
You cannot beat that.
For children and adults, we've got the best mouthwash designed by Dr. Jones.
That's my dad with colloidal silver and iodide on as well, infowarslife.com or triple-A-253-3139.
And your purchase of the products stands with us, stands with America, stands with Trump,
stands against the globalists and their satanic pedophile armies.
And that's who they are, and they know we know who they are, and they're coming back
against us so we need your support.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
From the front lines of the Information War, it's Alex Jones.
Watch me, watch me, I got it.
We're live on the Alex Jones show.
Before I get back into the news, I want to tell you about another great product that
we have available right now for 33% off at infowarstore.com.
This is fluorolife, the only digestive probiotic formula right now at infowarstore.com.
33% off thanks to stress, high carb diets, unnatural ingredients, fluorite tap water,
bad outside bacteria and toxins.
The good probiotic bacteria in our gut is constantly under attack.
That's why scientists work day and night to create fluorolife currently at 33% off a powerful
probiotic formula to help boost your gut health and support a healthy immune system.
Life goes above and beyond many natural probiotic formulas with 20 of the most potent strains
on the market.
With these powerful ingredients, this formula can boost your gut health and essential process
for optimal health.
You've heard Alex talk about how important gut health is for your body, and that is fluorolife.
It is 33% off at infowarstore.com.
Part of the massive discount we have running the New Year's Extended Specials, where we
have everything from super male vitality at 50% off to silver bullet at a massive 67%
off brain force plus at 50% off.
All of these with free shipping, this is the New Year's Extended Special.
It's not going to stick around long.
What do we have just a few days left of the year, but you can take advantage of those
huge discounts, support the network and get free shipping on everything at infowarstore.com
while supplies last.
Let's get back into some of this news talking before the break about global warming and
the left asserting how much they love science, how scientific they are, how bigoted, uninformed.
In some cases now they're claiming that Trump's mentally ill because he made fun of global
warming because he suggested for a moment he committed the thought crime that it may
not actually be a thing given these massively cold temperatures we're experiencing, not
just in America, but also in many parts of Europe, but the left, they're all about science,
right?
They stand on the side of science unless you're talking about gender and sexuality, in which
case there are 75 different genders, in which case chromosomes don't determine sex.
That's what they literally said.
These are the scientists.
These are the pro-science leftists.
They stand firmly on the side of science.
They're meticulous.
They also say that chromosomes don't determine sex.
Yes, this is actually a news story.
Biology professor lectures state rep on sex determination stuff.
The San Jose State University biology professor recently accused the Texas state legislator
of being bigoted for tweeting that there are only two genders.
How dare he?
In case you forgot how many genders there are, that's the tone in which they tweet.
Human state representative Abrisco was hit back, but the backlash was monumental after
he attached a picture of the XX and XY chromosomes.
He committed that particular thought crime.
Describing herself as a geneticist, Rachel French, the professor, the biology professor
responded to the tweet with an extended harangue in which she impugned Cain's motives and derided
his understanding of biology.
This is what she tweeted, bear in mind, this is a biology professor.
This is who's teaching your kids right now, quote, hey, geneticist here, you disingenuously
and for bigoted purposes oversimplified a complex phenomenon.
She went on to tweet a few notes, one sex and gender aren't the same thing.
Again, that's that incredibly deluded argument that there are untold genders that toddlers
can be gender fluid.
We had Lewis Hamilton, the Formula One champion, having to apologize for ribbing his nephew
because he was wearing a princess dress.
He said, boys, don't wear princess dresses.
He was castigated.
He was crucified.
He was forced to recant for his thought crime.
And this is what this biology professor is saying, sex and gender aren't the same thing.
And two, chromosomes don't determine sex.
She literally tweeted that out.
This is a biology professor saying that the XX and XY chromosomes don't determine sex.
Most unscientific, incredibly obscure thing you could ever say as a scientist.
Chromosomes don't determine sex, but these are the people who stand with science.
Where unscientific ill-informed bigots for questioning global warming, they're scientific
and they say chromosomes don't determine sex.
These are the people who are teaching your kids.
Absolutely incredible.
Oh, by the way, Elizabeth Warren tweeted that she was all about the science.
This is the woman who claims, of course, Native American ancestry.
There's no evidence for that whatsoever, but she's all about the science too.
Absolutely insane.
Idiot protest Trump by yelling at his robot doll during Disney World Show.
This is one of my favorite headlines of the week by far.
Trump derangement syndrome claimed another victim after a former executive assistant
at NBC decided to protest the president by yelling at his animatronic robot doll during
a show at Disney World.
Now you've probably seen this robot doll.
They have a big show, all the past presidents reading a statement, all the robots, they
all look really lifelike, realistic, probably apart from the Trump one, which looks like
it was a Hillary Clinton doll that they had to reconfigure after she lost the election.
Some people have claimed that.
So all these presidents, of course, current and former get up and give this speech, all
these robots, very lifelike, it's quite a good show, quite an interesting show.
But Jay Malski decided to assert himself as a member of the resistance by getting up at
this Disney World Show, bearing in mind he'd be surrounded by parents with their kids,
frightened kids.
Who's this screaming idiot, daddy?
He got up and started screaming, lock him up at a robot.
He literally did that.
While other audience members probably concerned about their fright and children told him
to shut up, one of the audience members informed Malski that he was literally yelling at a
robot telling him he's not real.
He tweeted, Malski, the brave resistance member tweeted, I protested real Donald Trump at
the Hall of Presidents, cuz, cuz, I'll never get this close in real life, probs, hashtag
lock him up.
Now the responses to this tweet were monumentally funny, as you can go and see for yourself.
One person pointed out Disney World is a private park and has a set of guidelines and standards
to ensure guests have a good experience, that video is disgusting and immature, families
trying to enjoy their vacations, not listen to your friends' ridiculous shouting.
While Malski doubled down in response to this by suggesting that his process was legitimate
because Disney is a public institution because it's a publicly traded company, so this guy
literally thinks that because Disney is on the stock market, that means it's a public
institution, yeah, that's the level of intelligence that we're dealing with here.
In a tweet that was subsequently deleted after he started to get attention for this, Malski
posted a picture of the Trump robot and remarked, okay, are we allowed to say that we want to
murder this?
So he literally tweeted his desire to murder a Trump-like robot before he even did this.
This is the level of sanity, this is virulent Trump derangement syndrome on display.
He's come out since and given an interview with a bar left SJW outlet, heckler of Trump
animatronic at Disney World responds to haters, he said, check your privilege, well check
your intelligence because you're a complete dunderhead and you've been ridiculed beyond
all expectation.
This is the Alex Show Show Live, we'll be back in the next segment with more breaking
news which you can find out in 4Wars.com.
We have developed with the top firms of the United States powerful 50 billion live organism
probiotic fluorolive that is so critical to having a healthy gut and a healthy life and
that has changed my life and so many other people's lives.
The other part is a compound like Mycos EX that has all these key ingredients of organic
herbs and other systems that are known to break down this garbage in the body.
That's why as we go through Christmas and now into the new year, we're extending the
free shipping and 50% off on all our best selling items while supplies last.
You can also get the two products together and get them at 50% off when you combo them.
So popular, sold out for more than six months.
Now back in stock for a limited time at M4WarsStore.com, M4WarsLive.com or by calling toll free
triple A 2533139.
2017 has been a earth shaking year.
In 2018, guaranteed is even going to be wilder.
In fact, my good friend Steph on Mylon who said it's going to be like the battle of
the gods, Ragnarok.
So get ready ladies and gentlemen and that's why thanking you for all your support.
We're extending free shipping storewide at M4WarsStore.com into early January and the
massive 50 to 67% off all our best selling items.
So ladies and gentlemen, where it's colloidal silver or brain force or micro ZX or fluorolife
they're now back in stock, they're all massively discounted with free shipping at M4WarsStore.com.
Take advantage of it right through the new year in a salute to the M4Wars and into a
thanks to all of you that have made this operation possible.
From myself, the entire M4Wars crew, thank you for your support.
Thank you for bringing America back from the edge of death and thank you for standing against
the globalist and their bullying garbage.
Vitamin mineral fusion, visit M4WarsLive.com to secure your chemistry.
We have worked for years with our chemists and scientists to create the most powerful
and affordable, great tasting multivitamin formula available.
Vitamin mineral fusion drink mix at M4WarsLive.com is loaded with a full month supply of essential
vitamins, minerals and amino acids that your body absolutely needs.
In the history of M4WarsLive, we've brought out a lot of amazing products like survival
shield X2, super male vitality and so many others with its unique delivery system and
proprietary manufacturing process designed for maximized effects.
This formula is the platinum standard of multivitamin mineral products and this part is most
important.
The ingredients in vitamin mineral fusion are either plant derived or of the highest
quality lab standard.
That means it's clean, that means it's pure and rest secured, you're finding the tip
of the spear in the M4Wars.
That's M4WarsLive.com and Vitamin Mineral Fusion.
Take action now before we sell out.
We are back live on the Alex Jones show getting right back into this news and of course a
couple of days ago we had CNN literally hiding in bushes to get footage of Donald Trump's
golf swing behaving like crazed buddy boiler stalkers stalking their ex-boyfriends.
Well now we have this headline, CNN's quest for truths behind truck blocking view of Trump
golf course stretches into second day CNN's quest to uncover an explanation.
They see them hiding in the bushes trying to get a shot of his golf swing.
Absolutely incredible but they had a larger objective with this.
They would on a quest to uncover why a truck and if a truck was blocking their view of
Trump's golf course, well this stretched into a second day on Wednesday and once again
bore no concrete answers but rest assured CNN's on the case.
Noah Gray, a producer for CNN who tweeted a picture of a white box truck in front of
hedges adjacent to the golf course on Wednesday tracked down what looked to be an identical
if not the same truck parked Thursday in a parking lot at the Palm Beach County Sheriff's
Department.
When asked about the truck, again this is an important national security issue, the Sheriff's
Department told CNN it did not order the truck to obstruct the media's view of the President.
Gray noted a spokesman for the department, Todd Barbera reiterated that denial on Thursday
saying the management team didn't order the truck.
So they were on it Wednesday, they were on it Thursday no doubt they're still on it today.
Was this truck used to block the media, the massive story that CNN's hot in the case of
Trump. CNN's John Berman who sat in for Anderson Cooper on his 360 evening program on Thursday
said that the truck which was in a lot behind a fence was parked in such a way that they
could not compare license plates.
This is completely obsessive crap.
Berman also said that where the truck was parked on Wednesday outside of Trump's golf
course, only Sheriff's Department vehicles had parked there previously.
This is how beset they are with every tiny frigging nuance of Donald Trump's life.
It's ridiculous.
The truck blocks CNN's view of the golf course one day after the network touted exclusive
footage of the President hitting the links.
Remember before he was even inaugurated where Trump, I think as Trump went to dinner with
his family and the media thought, oh my God, he's gone to dinner with his family.
That level of obsession hasn't decreased a year later. Let that sink in.
CNN reached out to the Secret Service, listen to the Secret Service's response.
This is funny.
For comment on whether it had anything to do with the truck, the driver of which in
the video could be seen blocking a view of his or her face.
The Secret Service responded in a statement, quote, the USS Secret Service is in the business
of protection and investigations not in commissioning vehicles to block the media's view of the
President's golf swing.
And I think that underscores the ludicrousness of this obsession.
Hiding in the bushes, crafting conspiracy theories about Trump using a truck to block
their view.
There was another one a couple of days ago, an Associated Press article asking, why does
Trump only stay at Trump properties, Trump owned properties when he's in D.C.?
Well, the answer is obvious because your relentless hysteria, your obsession, your relentless
hysteria about his presidency being illegitimate makes it unsafe for him not to stay in Trump
owned properties.
We don't want a James T. Hodgkinson mark two on our hands, do we?
You've radicalized a significant portion of these idiotic resistance members, some of
whom are quite prepared to carry out violence.
So why do you think Trump's careful about where he stays, where he appears in public?
When your level of obsession, your level of hysterical obsession comes down to hiding
in bushes and crafting insane conspiracy theories about trucks and the Secret Service being
in on it and all that kind of stuff.
When you've got that level of obsession, when you've tried to delegitimize the very
legitimacy of his presidency, of the election itself, you're going to have crazies out there
who are willing to take a pop shot and your rhetoric is partly responsible for that, as
we saw in the case of James T. Hodgkinson when he tried to shoot up a bunch of Congress
members.
So why do you think he stays at Trump owned properties in D.C.?
Not Trump Derangement Syndrome, professor who blamed Trumpism for Las Vegas massacre
resigned.
A far left Drexel University professor known for making inflammatory remarks on social
media is resigning from his teaching job, blaming a right wing internet mob for alleged
harassment.
The same blame excuse they come out with every single time.
You write absolute crap on the internet, you're going to get crap back, it's called being
a public figure, having an opinion on social media, you're going to get some back.
Whenever the left does it, whenever they get some heat back, oh, it's harassment, because
there's no flakes.
This is the same guy who tweeted that he wished for white genocide over Christmas.
That was his Christmas wish, a time when people come together, there's this unity of humanity.
We can drop the politics just for a few days, get together and celebrate the core principles
of what it is to be a human now.
We want white genocide.
That's the mindset.
George Sikorello Meyer, an associate professor of politics and global studies at the Philadelphia
School will be leaving next year.
They finally got rid of him after all these ridiculous statements on Twitter.
On Christmas Eve, he said all he wanted for the holidays was a white genocide.
This is the guy who said he wanted to vomit or yell after seeing an airline passenger giving
up a first-class seat to a US military service member, voluntarily, by the way.
That's a nice gesture, isn't it?
Giving up your first-class seat to a US military service member, no, it made him want to vomit
and yell.
Oh, but Sheila Jackson Leak and just steal somebody else's seat, and that's perfectly
fine.
And they're racist for complaining about it.
This is the new life.
He's finally been made to, and those comments aren't even the worst of it.
In fact, you can go and look, you can go on Twitter, I think there's a Twitter account
called farleftwatch, which tweeted out some of his past statements.
Absolutely insane.
Anyone else would be banned for them on Twitter.
Imagine wishing black genocide.
You'd be banned in a heartbeat, and rightly so.
This guy tweeted that a year ago.
Nobody touches him.
He's sacred, but now he's finally been forced to resign from his job.
He's whining a bitching about harassment because people dared to challenge his dumb-frigging
opinions on Twitter, boo-hoo.
See you more on bye-bye.
The American Mirror reports CNN's Don Lemon, Trump saying Merry Christmas is a dog whistle
to base.
President Donald Trump wants Americans to feel free to say Merry Christmas again, but
CNN's Don Lemon thinks that's a dog whistle to his base.
CNN had a clip from Trump pointing out that people are saying Merry Christmas again since
he took office, and he said, quote, this is a line that we've heard from Donald Trump
many, many times.
Why does he continue?
This is a dog whistle to the base because no one has ever stopped saying Merry Christmas.
So the left are coming out again, they're saying, don't be stupid.
We never stopped saying Merry Christmas.
The war on Christmas isn't a thing.
Forget about it.
Stop obsessing about it.
What's your problem?
Oh, by the way, they're also saying, we're triggered by Trump saying Merry Christmas.
We say it promotes white nationalism and we're implying that it's racist.
So anybody who complains about Merry Christmas being frowned upon, they're insane.
They're conspiracy theorists.
Oh, by the way, we're going to frown upon you saying Merry Christmas and say you're
racist.
For doing so, Newsweek article claims Trump uses Merry Christmas to promote white nationalism.
So again, Don Lemon is up there saying there's no war on Christmas.
Nobody says saying Merry Christmas is a bad thing.
Meanwhile, the same mainstream media is saying that anyone who uses the term Merry Christmas
is promoting white nationalism, that Donald Trump is a dog whistle for white nationalism.
This is out of Newsweek.
This came out like a week ago.
How Trump and the Nazis stole Christmas to promote white nationalism, the author and
several academics linked Trump's repeated Christmas wishes to a desire to exclude other
religions and foment a culture war.
So again, there's no war on Christmas.
Nobody's telling you you can't say Merry Christmas.
Oh, by the way, if you do say Merry Christmas, you're racist and a white nationalist.
Absolutely incredible mental gymnastics from the left and Don Lemon had an entire panel
where they were up there saying, oh, nobody's attacking Christmas.
Oh, by the way, if you do vehemently say we should all say Merry Christmas, you're a white
nationalist.
Oh, you can't have it both ways.
Absolutely incredible.
We'll be back in the next segment.
The final segment of the Alex Jones show, breaking news at infowars.com.
Get the discounts, massive Christmas discounts right now at infowars.com.
We'll be back.
Stay tuned.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by info wars life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root
extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed
of life, we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax
and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day.
Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond
other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue.
That's infowarslife.com.
I'm so excited.
The new product at infowarslife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to
the brim, filled to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic that doesn't have any stimulants in it, but
boy does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
And frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients, but
it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae, and I came
up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers, non-GMO, made right here in
America, 120 capsules, and ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglonone to it, which is the
precursor to all the hormones that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your
glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at infowarsstore.com and your purchase of the operation.
Maximize your potential and take your body back with super male vitality.
We're breaking the conditioning and fighting back against the globalist war on male vitality.
Our ultimate non-GMO formula is sourced from powerful organic herbs that have been gathered
from around the world and then concentrated for maximum potency.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using
synthetic chemicals.
InfoWarsLife wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance
and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Adjust your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body.
Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and
water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives
you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus.
Secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Discover trends and global developments years before they happen right here on the Alex Jones
show.
It is the final segment of the Alex Jones show because War Room with Owen Troyer is
coming up next.
But I want to tell you about the specials available last call for the specials for this
hour at infowarsstore.com.
These are the new year's extended specials.
It's time to start your new year right.
We're extending some of the best specials of the year to help you start 2018 in the
right manner, free shipping on all these products.
They include supermail vitality, 50% off with free shipping, silver bullet, 67% off, Brain
Force Plus, 50% off, Alpha Power, 50% off.
That is a new product.
So even on the new products, we've got huge discounts.
The real red pill, 50% discount off, free shipping on all these.
You've got all the super blue products at 50% off, Secret 12 at 50% off, Carnivore
and Floralife, 33% off, and much more right now with the new year's specials with free
shipping on all these products at infowarsstore.com.
Please support the growth, the survival of this network.
We're only beholden to you.
We don't get caught giant checks by George Soros.
We're not dependent on Gulf state dictatorship money like CNN.
We have to produce puffed pieces for Bahrain as they torture protesters like CNN does.
We're only dependent on you, which is why we remain independent with our content, with
our output, which is why we remain only dependent on you, not dependent on outside advertisers,
which is why they find it hard to sabotage us financially.
You are the foundation of this network and you support it by getting the products at
infowarsstore.com, huge discounts, take advantage of them today, infowarsstore.com.
Now I want to talk about this article, which actually was up at the Daily Mail, which is
a little bit confusing because normally they get most of this stuff right.
This is by David Mark Tosco, who breathlessly tweeted, exclusive, a White House intern flashed
the white power sign while posing with Trump and the rest of his intern class last month.
So he thought he had a big exclusive on this dark, shady expression of white supremacy
amidst Trump's inner circle.
I think they changed the headline later on the Daily Mail to try and water it down because
they realized they put their foot in it.
The headline of the Daily Mail is exclusive, white power at the White House, Trump intern
flashes alt-right symbol used by notorious extremists during group photo with the president.
A former White House intern is coming on a fire after flashing an own white power sign
during a photo with President Donald Trump.
Jack Brewer, who graduated from Emory University in Atlanta, is clearly bucking orders, personally
given by the president, to give a thumbs up in the picture that was taken in the White
House in November.
So this is his big, big exclusive, a month-old story of a young guy doing the OK hand sign
during a photo.
That's your big exclusive, is it?
Absolutely incredible stupidity beyond the pale.
Even the ADL.
I mean, do you Google for God's sake, the ADL came out, what, a year ago, nearly a year
ago and said, the OK hand sign is not a white supremacist hate symbol.
That was one of the headlines out of the Independent Anti-Defamation League says OK hand sign,
not a white supremacist hate symbol.
So even the ADL, which, you know, its entire foundation is based on creating hysteria over
supposed hate symbols, supposed hateful messages.
Even the ADL, which makes its money off doing that, its very existence is dependent on fanning
the flames of that hysteria.
Even they said it was not a white supremacist hate symbol.
And they said that nearly a year ago, like, can you use Google.com?
Oh, the big exclusive, somebody did the OK hand sign a month ago, whoop-de-doo.
They've ruined this guy's life.
The top thing that's going to come up when anybody searches this guy, when he's applying
for a job, is that he's a white supremacist, turns out he's Jewish.
Daily Mail did an update story on this, White House intern Jack Brewer, accused of flashing
white nationalist sign by Daily Mail, tells me he was simply emulating POTUS, Donald Trump
who's also done the same OK sign on numerous occasions, and he has Jewish heritage.
This guy's Jewish.
White Toaks came out with a tweet in response to this, addressing the writer of the Daily
Mail article who fell for this stupidity and seemed incapable of doing a basic Google
search.
He said, David, the slightest due diligence would have shown you that this is not true.
It is not a hate symbol.
You've caused irreparable damage to this intern's reputation and future career prospects, retract
an issue of apology immediately.
Whether they've done that in a time since this came out yesterday, I didn't have a
chance to check, but that's the case.
If damage this guy's reputation, any potential employers are going to look and see, oh, he's
a white supremacist.
No, he's not.
This was a 4chan troll to get you to say that doing that is a white supremacist hand sign,
and you fell for it over and over again, just because a bunch of people on an internet forum
say it's white power doesn't make it so, it's the OK hand sign, and even the ADL acknowledges
that fact.
So you're literally spreading fake news and ruining this guy's life.
And as far as I've seen, there's no retraction yet.
Remember back a thing is about six, eight months ago, Mike Sernovich and Cassandra Fairbanks
got up in front of the White House press briefing room altar there, the lectern, and did the
same thing.
And then the independent came out two days later and said, oh, my God, look at this bombshell
proof of white supremacy.
These are the same people who are actually attacked by the alt-right on a regular basis.
But no, they collectivize, they lump everybody in, they try to demonize Trump supporters
by saying they're white racist nationalists for doing that, the OK hand sign.
This is fake news.
This was fake news nearly a year ago, but they're still prouting it.
They're still pushing it.
They're ruining this guy's reputation.
They're ruining his future career prospects.
Stop being idiots and falling for every single frigging 4chan troll.
It's quite simple.
Moving on, MSNBC contributed to urge us Democrats to run on Trump impeachment.
This was James Peterson, who was asked by Steve Kornacki, his impeachment part, the
message for 2018 for Democrats.
He responded, it absolutely should be.
So again, the Democrats have no actual policy platform.
They're running on being the anti-Trump party.
Even though that specific reason was why they lost in 2016, we should welcome this.
Any Trump supporters should love this.
They still have no ideas whatsoever about how to reach the middle and working class with
actual policies.
They're absolutely terrified that the Trump tax cut will resonate with people in the working
and middle class as it already is.
What's their response?
Should we get an actual policy platform that addresses this, maybe cater to these people
who voted for Trump for that very reason because they've been abandoned economically?
No.
We're just going to continue artistically screeching about how evil Donald Trump is, about how
we should impeach him.
They've got nothing.
They've still got nothing.
It's not going to translate into votes.
It didn't before.
It's not going to do it again.
Will they actually get a policy platform this time?
It remains to be seen.
Farmers markets are now racist, by the way.
Another thing you can add to the list.
Farmers markets are insidious white spaces, normalized white eating habits.
Those are the kind of people who attend farmers markets.
They're racist.
You can't attend them anymore.
Farmers markets normalize the food consumption habits of white people and contribute to the
oppression of minorities, according to two professors at San Diego State University.
Again, these are the people teaching your kids.
Farmers markets are one such environmental improvement that can lead to gentrification.
Bosco and Joss are, argue, saying farmers markets are exclusionary since locals may
not be able to afford the food and all feel excluded from these new spaces.
So the author of this article, Chris Menahan, points out, when white people move out of
a city, it's white flight, when they move in, it's gentrification, and when they move
to another country, it's colonization.
So basically, any behavior while white is racist, this social exclusion is reinforced
by the whiteness of farmers, the professors argued.
Whiteness of farmers markets and the white habitus that they can reinforce, the professors
say, describing farmers markets as white spaces where the food consumption habits of white
people are normalized.
God forbid, would you have something that caters to a certain segment of the population?
As you would with Mexicans or black people, now it's okay for them, but white people,
it's racist for them simply to turn up at a farmer's market.
So white people casually eating food is now racist, another one to add to the list.
Fitness coaches guilty of perpetuating fat oppression, professors warn, I can't figure
out which is the funniest here.
We've got a biology professor saying the X chromosome, the XY chromosome don't deserve
insects.
We've got professors saying that farmers markets are racist.
We've got other professors saying that fitness coaches, people in gyms who try to help people
lose weight are now perpetuating fat oppression.
Once again, these idiots are teaching your kids.
I'm just going to wrap it up for the show, Owen Troyer is coming up, Ballroom Live, don't
go away.
We have developed with the top firms in the United States, powerful 50 billion live organism,
probiotic, floral life that is so critical to having a healthy gut and a healthy life
and that has changed my life and so many other people's lives.
The other part is a compound like Mycos EX that has all these key ingredients of organic
herbs and other systems that are known to break down this garbage in the body.
That's why as we go through Christmas and now into the new year, we're extending the
free shipping and 50% off on all our best selling items while supplies last.
You can also get the two products together and get them at 50% off when you combo them.
So popular sold out for more than six months.
Now back in stock for a limited time at InfowarsStore.com, InfowarsLive.com or by calling toll free
AAA 2533139.
Please listen carefully because I'm about to point out three things that will save you
a lot of money while you get high quality products and fund the Infowar, a 360 win.
Number one, when you choose auto ship before checkout, we give you 10% off on your order
at InfowarsStore.com.
Number two, you're also able to get items that are out of stock when you sign up for
auto ship because we hold back a surplus for auto ship customers.
Number three, we're giving you free shipping on all orders above $50.
Listeners have been requesting this for years because it's so easy to forget to reorder the
products that you need each month.
Just go to InfowarsStore.com, select your favorite product or products, click on auto
ship and choose how often you want us to send you another order.
As you know, I coined the term 360 win and with the new auto ship feature at InfowarsLive.com,
this is a sure win, 10% off on auto ship.
Win, win, win at InfowarsLive.com, free shipping on orders above $50 and all out of stock items
are never out of stock when you sign up for auto ship.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Welcome everyone to the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show.
This is normally is called Overdrive and I'm your host Rob Do.
Thanks to Paul Joseph Watson and Owen Schreuer for sitting in.
I'll let you know that Owen will be in about an hour.
We're going live at Infowars.com forward slash show for the war room.
But for the meantime, I will be here for the most of this hour.
I'm going to be conducting an interview with two individuals known as Pamphlet Anon and
Baruch the scribe.
And these two individuals reached out to me, they're moderators on 4chan and 8chan and
Reddit and they mainly deal with cultivating the news that QAnon has been putting out.
If you're not aware who QAnon is, we're going to go over that.
I really wasn't aware until I found these two Jerome Corsi stories back in December.
I'd kind of heard about QAnon, but I wasn't really paying much attention to it.
I don't really get on a lot of 4chan boards or anything like that.
But here's an article from December 22nd QAnon links resignation of Google Schmidt to Trump's
executive order.
And the executive order they're specifically talking about is the executive order blocking
the property of persons involved in serious human rights abuses or corruption.
And that is what he actually signed it on December 20th and December 21st.
It went in and then immediately Eric Schmidt resigns.
So it was a very short post.
It's in the article.
You could read it.
The executive order allows the Treasury Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of State
to confiscate U.S. assets of anyone materially assisting, sponsoring or providing financial
material or technological support to those engaged in human rights abuses and or corruption.
So I covered that a few days ago on the war room.
And people are speculating now that it has to do with Schmidt's womenizing.
And who knows how many flights he took on the Pito Express or if he did go on it.
And then a few days later, five days later, of course, he put out this article QAnon exposes
dim conspiracy to frame Trump claims Google Schmidt played pivotal role, which would make
a lot of sense because Hillary has said many, many times when she went in when she arrived
at the DNC to run for president, everything was in shambles.
And then Eric Schmidt came in and helped organize her voter databases, her online strategy,
how she was going to win billions and billions of dollars behind this failed candidate.
And she couldn't beat one man with his Twitter and his private jet.
So what it shows you is the awakening that's happening.
And so these two individuals that are going to come on, they're a part of anonymous is
really about, it's just another manifestation of the global awakening that really took
place this year.
It's going to turbo charge next year, where we're already seeing the fall of mainstream
media happening happening in real time every day.
Something happens where we just take a brick from their facade.
But let's go into this article.
According to the cryptic narrative, Schmidt played a major role in Hillary Clinton's 2016
presidential campaign.
And in the subsequent conspiracy to promote the crowd strike analysis of the DNC email
heist and the fusion GPS dossier.
So that may be one reason why Schmidt is getting out.
And because he knows that his time has come.
Also shockingly, QAnon directly suggests that the heist of the DNC emails, including emails
from the Hillary campaign chair, John Podesta, weren't inside job by Seth Rich, an IT employee
of the DNC who became disillusioned with Hillary.
Rich realized they were colluding and it's Bernie Sanders.
We've talked about that.
This is information.
I think most of our audience already knows.
So shockingly QAnon also claims Debbie Wasserman Schultz put out a contract to MS13 gang members
to murder Seth Rich.
That would be bombshell if we were able to get bona fide evidence of that.
At this point, it's just a claim on an anonymous board.
So we're going to talk to these two guests coming up at least for the next three segments.
And then also, if I have time, I'm going to get into the lawsuit Judge Roy Moore filed
because it shows bona fide election fraud.
You're not going to want to miss this.
Tell everybody right now.
Go to infowars.com forward slash show.
We're going to start breaking open some bombshells.
Thanks for watching.
Feel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by InfoWars Life.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process and increase the bioavailability of
nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food
particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now, while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability and absorption
of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates, so
you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste.
Use carnivore by InfoWars Life.
Listen to InfoWarsLife.com and secure your bottle now, that's InfoWarsLife.com.
Clashing through the lies and disinformation, it's Alex Jones.
So just a quick show note to the crew in there.
I didn't have much time to talk to them before I came on.
From time to time I'm going to be referring to things on my computer and feel free to
go to it.
And I also want to show my menu bar so people can follow along at home because we're going
to be jumping between Reddit and 8chan posts and jumping all over the place.
And if you haven't been into this culture, it can get a little confusing.
My two guests are going to say you should lurk instead of post and ask questions.
Just kind of watch and you'll see how things play out.
But if you go to reddit.com forward slash r forward slash cbts underscore stream, it
will take you to a sticky post that went up this morning by Pamphlet Anon.
Basically talking about this information.
And if you want to post things on here, this is a good place to post your information that
you have.
What we're trying to do here is to reach out to patriots out there who might not be aware
of this system set up because when I was talking to the two guests earlier today, they said
we wanted to start doing these to get people to come out and bring out more information
to help connect more dots because they're only interested in the truth.
They're not getting paid to do this.
They're doing this as volunteers.
But there it is at CBTS stands for calm before the storm.
There's also a CBTS underscore stream forward slash wiki forward slash FAQ, which also
has basically a primer if you need more information.
And then somewhere in this also there's this Q this Anon file, which is basically everything
Q has done.
And it's about 500 pages on it's a PDF and I'll be referring to that from time to time.
So there you can see the calm before the storm CBTS when you see that that's what it stands
for calm before the storm and I'll go to pamphlet first.
And where do you want to start with this?
Why is Q Anon so important to where we're at today in this global situation?
We find ourselves in with Trump coming in and really taking it to the globalists.
Okay.
Well, first of all, how are you doing, man?
I'm doing great.
Thanks for joining me.
Awesome.
Yeah.
Okay.
Q Anon is important, I think, because one of the early on in his post was that this is
going to be the biggest Intel drop in awful world history.
And I think that's absolutely true.
This is far bigger than it's far bigger than anything that's come before it.
And it encompasses so many different, you know, many different groups of people in power
that it's just mind boggling.
And the things that he's revealed are just, it's shocking to people.
What do you think the biggest bombshells that he's dropped so far?
Matt, what do you think?
Hey, Rob, great to be on your show, yeah, it's terrifying.
The fact that the world is run by Satan worshipers, which Alex Jones has been saying for decades.
So I think if you've been listening to info wars, then you'll know this already.
It's just we've had confirmation now from this individual who is obviously one of President
Trump's right hand man.
And I'll say this, I'll go back to the top of this PDF if you download it.
It's fairly large, but I think it's worth it.
And one thing that's great about this is it takes everything offline.
There's a picture.
One of the first Q posts is a picture of Trump and Stephen Miller, I believe Kushner's in
here and they're all giving the thumbs up.
And if you follow the thumbs, it makes a Q, which I think is that was his first sign to
come out.
But this is also a picture inside Air Force One.
And I mean, to you guys, what does this prove to you that this guy is deep inside Trump's
inner circle?
Or is he one step removed?
What do you what do you think?
A picture man, I think it's just more like a funny, you can't really draw any firm conclusions
from that, but it's definitely interesting, and also another point with that, the file
name of that image, I believe had the words do it, which is just, that's great.
But there are a lot of other things that came up after that picture that really do prove
him to be what he says he is.
Right.
Now, his first post was on October 28th.
So he hasn't been posting for that long, barely.
I guess today would be three months or yeah, actually yesterday was two months.
I'm sorry.
Two months.
That's right.
His first post was talking about Operation Mockingbird and Hillary Clinton is going
to be detained, not arrested.
And then we've seen Hillary Clinton wearing a boot, which some people claim she's hiding
an ankle bracelet, one of those ankle braces that don't allow you to leave the, you know,
your general area, your country or whatever.
Where do you think that lies?
And I know that that's kind of speculation at this point, but then we'll get into some
of the hardcore things that we can prove.
If you want to take it.
Yeah, Rob, so the way Q has been leading has been really interesting.
What he's done is most of the time he's been asking questions that basically answer themselves.
So if, you know, if you've got that PDF in front of you or the map, he, you know, he'll
fire up a whole lot of questions.
Was the election supposed to be rigged?
Did good people prevent the rigging?
Why did protest former panel to investigate?
I'm just reading Q's 12th post here up on the, up on the web.
Why is voter surrounded by highly respected generals, who guards former presidents?
So what he's doing is he's giving us background information directly because of course, you
know, each, the next question answers the previous question.
So he's giving us information, which is very difficult to pick up via a semantic analysis
through surveillance software is pretty bad at that at the moment.
But what he's also doing is asking us, is giving us riddles that we need to solve so
that we can then dig deeper and find out what is the truth behind what he's making.
Right.
And in this first post at the very bottom, so he's got Mockingbird at the top, then he
has Mockingbird 103017, which would have been two days later after he made this post.
He also started talking about Soros's money.
Why did Soros donate all of his money recently?
Why would he replace all of his funds in a RC?
What does, what does RC stand for?
I'm sorry, which poster you're looking at?
I'm looking at his first post October 28th, the very first one.
Yeah.
Right.
The very first one.
What?
Where is HRC?
Is that what you're asking me?
No, no, no, RC.
He just says RC.
Why, why would he place all his funds in a RC and then it's at the very bottom?
Registered charity.
Okay.
George, George Soros transferred his personal funds into his Open Society Foundation.
Right.
Obviously a bit of a panic move to try and protect it, but yeah, I don't think it's going
to work.
And so you think he might use this executive order to go after George Soros as well?
I think he already has.
Okay.
Now, you were telling me earlier that there was a post that it took you a month to figure
out what he was saying and what page number is that post on and we'll go to it and we'll
show it to everybody.
Oh, wow.
That, okay, that, that is a little bit tricky.
I'll tell you what, Rob, I'll tell you what the most spectacular example for me is.
Okay.
Is the Lord's Prayer.
Q on November the 15th, you know, dropped some information for us in his usual style.
So he begins by, as usual, asking a whole lot of questions, who financed 9-11, who has
been laden's handler, why were the clowns in America tasked to capture, hand capture
kills, if some have been laden?
Right.
Why not military intelligence?
Well, yeah, I saw this question and then our father, who walks in heaven, hello be
thy name, thy kingdom come, he writes out the Lord's Prayer.
And yeah, I don't think we really even noticed that and that, okay, so that's now November
the 15th.
All right.
Hey, we're about, we're about to go to break.
I'll let you finish that up on the other side.
You're watching the fourth hour of the Alex Jones show.
I'm your host, Rob Dew and fours.com, four slash show is the free stream.
Send out to everybody.
No.
Want revenge on the common housefly?
Well, after 10,000 years, someone has finally come up with a better way, the bug assault,
a miniaturized shotgun, which utilizes ordinary table salt as ammunition, non-toxic and no
batteries required.
So much fun.
You'll forget you have a wife and kids.
Get a 99, 95 and free economy shipping, use discount code GCN and get an extra 10% off
your purchase at bugasalt.com.
Fire your fly swatter.
Get your bug assault today.
Fully cooked, ready to eat bacon.
I'm talking thick meaty, center cut, presidential bacon, savory and delicious.
I buy some, I use some, I store some.
Awesome.
No refrigeration needed with a 10 year shelf life, NASA pack technology.
Bacon, fully cooked, fully hydrated, ready to eat right from the pack bacon, or warm
and serve.
Life saving, ready to eat bacon, 10 year shelf life bacon, ships free at fullycookedbacon.com,
fullycookedbacon.com.
Water is the single most important thing your body needs, so you want to be sure it's the
best for you and your family.
Since 2005, thousands have depended on Berkey purified water.
The Berkey guy provides the lowest price filtration systems in every size.
For incredibly delicious water now and in an emergency, get to goberkey.com, or call
877-886-3653, 877-886-3653, goberkey.com.
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure, then check out slingbow.com for
some unique holiday gift ideas.
It's slingbow.com, where we have some innovative new products for the archer, hunter, or bow
fishing enthusiast in your family.
Now through January, use the promo code holiday to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada.
And from all of us at Slingbow Industries, have a safe, joyous, and peaceful holiday season.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotrue Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic
mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra
pure, deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence
every cell, tissue, and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones, you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight
gain, and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
Proper B-vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B-vitamins we need
every day.
Secret XII combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B-12 for optimal absorption.
Being deficient in B-vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory, and lethargists.
Secret XII Up Up Up Optimal Absorption B-vitamins help the body convert food into energy by
supporting your intercellular processes.
B-vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system
up up up optimum levels.
Secret XII is an easy way to increase your vitamin B-12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support Optimal Brain and Body Function with Secret XII.
That's infowarslife.com.
the free stream you need to send out to everybody.
We are talking with two moderators on 4chan and 8chan and Reddit who basically have been
cultivating and curating the QAnon posts, and we were focusing on a post from Tuesday,
the 14th of November, and it is, if you're reading along at home, you can find it on
page 175 in your textbook of QAnon posts.
It starts off with who financed 9-11, who was Bin Laden's handler?
Why was the clowns in America, that's CIA, tasked to hunt, capture, kill Osama Bin Laden?
Why not military intelligence?
If we found Osama Bin Laden, eliminated security, why would we not kill him and not take him
alive?
Why wouldn't we want to capture him and extract more information?
And he also says it leads to an end game talking point, I guess you could say.
Perhaps someday, we will understand, people will understand, they had a plan to conduct
another mass extinction event, World War I, World War II, orchestrated by planned select
families.
That's the stuff we know.
But then he goes in to the Lord's Prayer, and Baruch, why don't you break that down?
Why do you think it's important, we were, as we were going to break you, we're kind
of getting into that.
Why was it so important that he go into the Lord's Prayer at the end of this?
Yeah, Rob, so, yeah, you're absolutely right.
So, some good questions from Q to make us think, go do research, and then he talks
about the Lord's Prayer, and yeah, I didn't get it.
I thought that was, I thought, okay, Q is a Christian, maybe the Catholic.
I mean, he has, he has, you know, he has thumbs up, another post to, you know, a Catholic
prayer.
So, I thought, oh, that's cool, great, you know, he's a Christian, that's brilliant.
And then on November the 7th, I think it was, so, sorry, I think it was December the 7th,
so holiday.
So, a few weeks later, the Pope announces that he wants to change the Lord's Prayer.
And yeah, so now a couple of people noticed that, I missed it, but then Q popped on two
days later and said, future proves pop.
Why was the Lord's Prayer posted?
Which version?
Why is this relevant?
And I was absolutely thought, basically Q knew somehow the Pope was going to change
the Lord's Prayer.
So, here's a person, here's an individual who has somehow inside knowledge of the most
secret inner working of one of the most closely guarded places in the world, which is the
Vatican.
That was very, very impressive.
That was amazing.
That was the most spectacular proof I've ever seen.
And you notice he didn't give it away up front.
He didn't say, oh, the Lord's Prayer is going to be posted, guys, keep your eyes open.
No, because that would just alert, you know, whoever's watching, the bad guys, because
the bad people do watch these forums as well.
So, Q gave us this perfect method of proof, which he could then go back and say, see,
hold yourself, that, yeah, the staggering, that Q knows the Pope's mind.
Yeah, exactly.
And he has made some predictions on that FAQ.
He predicted President Trump's Twitter being shut down, I think a couple days before.
He predicted the upheaval in Saudi Arabia.
He predicted an incident with a helicopter at a Rothschild estate in the UK days before
it happened.
He predicted a terrorist attack by Bangladeshi National involving fireworks the day before
it happened.
I mean, this is incredible stuff.
He would have to be getting this, you know, distilling info from the NSA, presidential
briefings.
I mean, where would you, how would one find information like this?
You would have, you would have to be getting almost like tuned into the consciousness of
the world, it seems like.
Yeah, I think you're absolutely right.
This is a man or a team who is standing right next to the president and who knows exactly
what the president is doing at all times.
You can't just suck this out yet, Sam.
This is hardcore prediction of the future.
And that's very important.
I mean, like you were saying right at the beginning of the show, these are anonymous
posts on 4chan and 8chan, which are famous for being anonymous hotbeds of discussion
and all kinds of stuff.
So when somebody says, oh, yeah, I belong to the intelligence services and this is good
information, of course, nobody's going to believe it.
But when they start predicting the future, that's a different story.
That's when you start taking them really seriously.
Yeah.
And I think that's why it took a couple months for him to rack up some of these predictions
and then people started really taking notice.
Jerome, of course, he's been taking notice as well.
He's been writing articles.
I'm sure he'll be writing one about this interview today.
Here's a post from Monday, November 20th.
It's a really long post, but talking about what is a key, what is a key used for using
these question things.
But then he goes into the MSM.
But he also makes a little nod to the alternative media.
Why are non-MSM platforms cast as conspiracy and or non-credible?
This is page 178 if you're reading along in your book at home.
What power of influence was recently discovered re 2016 election?
That's the people.
That's the people power of what he's saying.
How much power influence does Twitter, Facebook, Reddit have in influencing the minds of people?
Has the stranglehold of MSM been diminished?
What is open source?
It moves on continuing on the next page.
Let's see who guards the narrative.
Does the MSM shelter and protect select party members?
I.e. Hillary Clinton.
What prevents a news organization from simply making up sources and stories?
Absolutely nothing.
And we've seen it all over the place.
What if Hugh Hefner was a CIA?
What is a honeypot?
So baby Hugh Hefner, I guess he's alluding to he was a guy who was procuring women for
these different Hollywood elites.
Notice how once Hugh Hefner died, every the me too movement just exploded.
So it was like he was the spirit of Hugh Hefner or Hugh Hefner himself was keeping a handle
on that.
What do you think of all this that I've just brought out?
Yeah, that's right.
That revelation about Hugh Hefner was breathtaking.
So basically the plan was, Hugh has always worked on the CIA apparently, according to
Hugh and I believe him, basically, you know, somebody, a celebrity, a congressman, a senator
that's invited to a Hugh Hefner party, obviously there's a lot of girls, and they're provided
with a private space.
And guess what, it's all on the hidden cameras, and the girl was underage, although she didn't
look it.
You have now got that person for life because of blackmail.
And that's how it works, blackmail.
I believe the CIA needs only a budget of $10,000 to $20,000 per country to entirely undermine
the elected representatives of the people through sexual blackmail.
It's a very powerful method, and it's how this whole web has spread across the world
and spread across Washington, DC.
And we're now undoing it, thankfully.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, we saw, there was speculation why we went into Panama to go after Noriega
was that, and this comes out in John Perkins' book, Confessions of an Economic Hitman,
that he had an island off the coast of Panama, Considora Island, and he had pictures of
George W. Bush getting it on with people and doing drugs, and then that's why we bomb
certain buildings because they held those photographs because we weren't in the digital
age yet.
It was all analog.
We'll be right back with the rest of our interview from Barik Describe and Pamphlet
Anon.
You're watching info.org.com forward slash show, the fourth hour of overdrive of the
Alex Jones show.
Stay tuned.
Hello, Mr. Anderson.
The NSA has noticed how much time you spend on conservative news sites.
We have no choice but to consider you a domestic terrorist.
Most people think life insurance pays after you're dead.
That's true.
But did you know you can have tax-free access to your life insurance while you're still
alive?
You can use the life benefits of your life insurance to grow your money with certainty
and guarantees.
No stock market risk, no tax risk, and no penalties.
Call life benefits if you'd like a free book about how this can be done.
Call 702-660-7000.
That's 702-660-7000.
2017 has been a earth-shaking year, and 2018 guaranteed is even going to be wilder.
In fact, my good friend Stephon Malanou said it's going to be like the battle of the gods,
Ragnarok.
So, get ready, ladies and gentlemen, and that's why, thanking you for all your support, we
are extending free shipping store-wide at info.warstore.com into early January and the
massive 50-67% off all our best-selling items.
So, ladies and gentlemen, where it's colloidal silver, or brain force, or micro-zx, or fluorolife
they're now back in stock, they're all massively discounted with free shipping at infowarstore.com.
Take advantage of it right through the new year in a salute to the info warriors and
in to a thanks to all of you that have made this operation possible.
From myself, the entire info wars crew, thank you for your support.
Thank you for bringing America back from the edge of death, and thank you for standing
against the globalists and their bullying garbage.
Support good oral health with our one-of-a-kind, super blue fluoride-free products.
InfoWarsLife brings you a revolutionary toothpaste blend with iodine and nano-silver designed
to deliver a powerful clean.
Enjoy a minty fresh flavor made with peppermint oil or try our bubblegum flavor.
Pair this groundbreaking toothpaste with the super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and super
charge your oral health.
Our amazing mouthwash features natural oils and ancient ingredients used since aboriginal
and biblical times.
Instead of containing fluoride, our super blue line is loaded with the good halogen iodine
and an array of other beneficial compounds that have been hand selected for their oral
health benefits.
Super blue fluoride-free mouthwash and toothpaste are the first and only to contain all of these
natural ingredients.
Xylitol, nano-silver, and iodine.
What's the difference with our super blue fluoride-free products?
Refresh your breath and invigorate your oral health routine at infowarsstore.com.
That's infowarsstore.com.
I can Arizona here on the air worldwide.
Go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week.
Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save
America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime infowarslister, I want to say thanks for the awesome brain force, anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the anthroplex, too.
Thank you.
I use the bio-true selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal
toothpaste fans.
The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the infowarslife products.
They are quality.
I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
And because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women
understand that there's a bigger problems going on, and if we can get our houses in
order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
Rob Dew here with the fourth hour of Overdrive of the Alex Jones show.
It is my pleasure to be with you.
If you ever need to get ahold of me, you can always hit me up on my Twitter, at D-E-W-S-N-E-W-Z,
Dew's News on Twitter.
Yesterday, I was hosting the War Room, and we put out a video about the Roy Moore lawsuit
because as quickly as it came out, the Secretary of State finalized the election and said it
was going to be certified, and we're not even going to look at this allegations of voter
fraud.
Well, I would encourage everybody to go to this.
Roy Moore lawsuit proves election fraud in Alabama Senate race.
You need to learn, so whether or not this election gets overturned is irrelevant.
What we need to learn is the bag of tricks, which is what QAnon is teaching us.
He's teaching us about the bag of tricks.
So the big thing on here, and I'm going to go over this just for a second, and then we'll
get back to our guests, is this graph.
And in Jefferson County, if you can zoom in on this graph here, there are 20 precincts
in Jefferson County where people that voted straight Republican ticket, Roy Moore got
34% less votes than those who voted straight Republican ticket, which is a statistical
impossibility.
In fact, he says it's one in 15 billion, the guy who did this, this was, what's his name?
By Phil Evans.
Phil Evans was the researcher, computer programmer who's looked at election fraud.
So there were 20 of these precincts, and the total votes that he got less were 13,000
votes that went to Doug Jones.
So if he got 13,000 less votes, that's a 26,000 vote difference, because if you take
those from Doug Jones and give them to Roy Moore, it's a 26,000 turnaround, which would
have made him the winner of the election.
So they don't have to take every state, they don't have to touch every voting machine.
It's only certain machines.
There were also allegations in the lawsuit that talk about how there were, they found
bundles of pre-filled out ballots that had Doug Jones already filled out in them.
Of course, they destroyed them all.
We could believe that, but it's an 80-page piece.
I went over it pretty thoroughly.
You should check out that video, Roy Moore lawsuit proves election fraud in Alabama Senate
race.
Now let's get back to our guests.
I want to go over, actually, I want to ask you guys this question, and you can both answer
this.
You reached out to us.
You wanted to come on to talk about this, and from what you were telling me, the purpose
is to wake other people up that this forum exists, and for others to, I would say, the
older generation.
I'd like to say the older generation isn't as internet savvy, especially on these different
board services, but they have a lot of human interaction, human networks going along.
And so we need these people to start getting involved to help fill in the dots.
But why don't you guys say it in your own words, each take a minute, talking about why
you want more people to get involved in this quest for truth.
Yeah, thank you, Rob.
So the power of the chant, you know, like four-chant, eight-chant, we've got all these
young men, basically, who are, like, obsessed with winning, obsessed with finding out the
truth, obsessed with investigations, and they've done amazing things for us.
They've found out so many, so much helpful information and a new snippet that confirm
what QAnon has been planning, but the story behind QAnon is so big that we need to get
it out to as many people as possible, which is why we're going wider.
We're talking to YouTubers, we're talking to InfoWars, we're talking to all the independent
media.
We're not talking to mainstream media.
We don't care about them.
We're talking to the people.
We're available to answer your questions directly on the subreddit.
Maybe let me just pass over the pamphlet here, who can tell us why we did what we did.
Yeah, sure.
How am I coming through, guys?
Oh, you sound great.
You're good now.
You sound great.
Awesome.
Million bucks.
Very nice.
Very nice.
I mean, up to this point, this whole thing with QAnon has been more or less restricted
to the chans, and that's a very specific subset of the population.
It's a very specialized subset of the population, too.
They're very good at what they do, but they're not everybody, and there are a lot of people
out there that just cannot work on, they just cannot function on the chans the way these
people can, but they're a massive untapped resource themselves.
They have all sorts of connections, I mean, a lot of them could be retired, intel or military.
There's so many people out there from older generations that are not involved in this
fight, and what we're trying to do is get them all of the information.
All of these people who work on these boards, they're incredible, man.
The information they put together, it's phenomenal, totally phenomenal, and we're trying to get
that information into a format that these older generations and people who can't understand
the chans and the way they work, get it into a format they can understand and teach them
how to spread it.
Excellent.
All right.
I want to go to the latest, this is the latest email posted in the PDF that you can download
off of the subreddit, the com before the storm subreddit.
It says, we are moving fast.
Remember, not all within the C-A, which is C-I-A, D-J, DOJ, F-I, F-B-I are bad apples.
Fast cleaning top, i.e. Rosenstein McCabe is what I think that reads into, or restructuring
one to two, which is interesting, operations 24-7 speed, which is another term for cameras
to start rolling.
So guys, what do you think is in store in the next couple months going into 2018?
Well, one thing that I've heard, I believe, Steve Bannon talk about, I've mentioned this
before in a number of our previous interviews, they called the first year of Trump's presidents
here the year of salvage, trying to salvage everything they could, seeing what was even
worth salvaging and then trying to get it back into working condition and taking the
mess that Obama and Bush left them and seeing what they can do with it.
And then the year 2018 is supposed to be all about being savage and laying into their enemies.
And we're trying to get into that fight with the president and just take it to him.
Go ahead, Baruch.
Yeah, I think that's absolutely right there.
If what Q is claiming is true, which I have 100% belief, I have 100% confidence that
he is carrying the truth, then the crimes by the so-called elites who rule over us are
also unimaginable that we're going to need all the help we can get to educate the world.
I mean, it's going to be terribly shocking.
I think that Steve Bannon quoted absolutely right this year was the year of salvage.
It was the year of the operation to clean up the world, and then next year will be the
year of justice, where we see all these people dragged into military tribunals and we will
hear and see all the evidence of their unspeachable crime for ourselves.
But the more people we tell now that that is going to happen, the easier the blow will
be, which is, Q has given us very specific orders that on the chance, on a chance, especially
he said, you guys need to tell people, you need to red pill the normies, as you would
say in Chad's speech.
You need to tell people what's really been going on.
You need to tell them what are so-called elites, like Obama, and the Clintons, and Joe Biden,
and all this elite, super elite crowd, what they really get up to in their spare time.
And that's what we're doing.
Well, and I think that's the big key.
We can expose the pedophilia, which kind of leads into a pitot gate and pizza gate.
If you can expose the Satan worship, if you can get people to understand that your world
leaders don't think and act like regular people, they're not regular people.
These are predators.
Going back to that post from Friday, December 22nd, why do the clowns do with all the access
codes and tech?
Who controls North Korea?
Who really controls North Korea?
What families are protected using leverage, bank, financial leverage, nuke strike package
leverage?
Who is Iran protected?
Why is Iran funded by the U.S.?
Because we need enemies.
What news about Iran broke?
So this is just a few days ago.
Drugs?
What about WMDs?
Why did Brennan and others provide false intel about North Korea's capability in Iran's tech
and nuclear development?
Plate is full, people.
We need to have faith.
We'll be right back with our final segment with our two guests, Anonymous, 4chan, 8chan,
and Reddit moderators.
We'll be right back.
Pamphlet Anon and Baruch Describe.
Thanks for watching m4s.com forward slash show.
It's the free stream.
You got to get out to everybody.
I'm so excited.
The new product at m4slife.com in a glass bottle, two month servings filled to the brim, filled
to the absolute top, the real red pill.
This is a heart and brain pill, a new tropic, but it doesn't have any stimulants in it.
But boy, does it stimulate because it's beyond that.
Quite frankly, I just went off what I saw medical doctors prescribing to their patients,
but it wasn't prescription, but they were charging people $100, $200 for the formulae,
and I came up with our own formulae working with scientists and developers.
Non-GMO made right here in America, 120 capsules.
And ladies and gentlemen, you add the preglenone to it, which is the precursor to all the hormones
that your body has to have to even make the hormones in your glands.
It is amazing.
Red pill now available at m4sstore.com and your purchase fuzz the operation.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air.
Another Matt, go ahead.
Hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a long time listener of m4s, and I just
wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the m4.
It might seem like a simple thing, but they're particularly these slogan t-shirts that you
guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you.
My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me.
And it's a big deglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag m4s.com
on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise
free speech.
The newest one is trigger warning t-shirt, trigger warning t-shirt, which is the symbol
of a trigger with a yield sign and then m4s.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at m4s.com.
We have developed with the top firms in the United States powerful 50 billion live organism
probiotic floral life that is so critical to having a healthy gut and a healthy life
and that has changed my life and so many other people's lives.
The other part is a compound like mycozx that has all these key ingredients of organic
herbs and other systems that are known to break down this garbage in the body.
That's why as we go through Christmas and now into the new year, we're extending the
free shipping and 50% off on all our best selling items while supplies last.
You can also get the two products together and get them at 50% off when you combo them.
So popular sold out for more than six months now back in stock for limited time at m4s.com
m4slife.com or by calling toll free triple A 2533139.
Welcome to the top of the food chain with alpha power by info wars life for those who
want to increase testosterone and energy levels.
Most men know that testosterone levels begin to decline starting around 30 at a rate of
about 1 to 2% per year.
This drop can show signs such as fatigue, low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss.
Alpha power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on
the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated
into their most potent forms, including uricoma, longia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo
from Peru, horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with alpha power.
Alpha power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
We're listening to the Alex Jones show.
One of the great things about working here at info wars.com is things never kind of stay
the same.
In fact, back over here is where my cubicle used to be where I used to help produce the
Alex Jones show when it was back over in where we now have our podcast studio.
Now this is the main studio.
We have another studio across the hall that Owen Schreuer is about to go live from.
We've just built another studio that's even bigger than this one.
And how do we do that?
We do that with your support.
We don't get funding from the government.
We don't have Uncle Scrooge benefactors.
I guess Uncle Scrooge is the wrong metaphor, but we don't have benefactors dropping money
from the sky.
No, we get support from the people out there who want the truth, who crave the truth and
want to wake up others because that's we're all in this together at the end of the day.
That's why we have our two guests on.
And I just want to tell you that we have some New Year's specials.
We were extending them till the end of the year, got free shipping on just about everything
in the store.
Myco ZX is back in stock.
It's 25% off, but if you get it with the Floralife Combo Pack, it's 50% off both of them together.
So Floralife's 33% off, Myco ZX is 25% off, but if you get them both together, 50% off.
That's a great deal and really great for your health because the Myco ZX goes after the
bad Candida and the fungus and mold that's inside your system and the Floralife helps
replenish that good bacteria that you need to help digest your food.
That's the basic building block of all your health is having good digestion.
That's where your digestive system lives.
And then I'm just going to read off the rest of the things that are 50% off.
It's an amazing list.
Supermal Vitality Brain Force, which by the way, I took my two brain force right before
we started.
You can hear the can shaking right here.
Just opened it up.
Here's the cotton that I pulled out right here.
I mean, just had my two brain force.
I feel great, ready to rock and roll, alpha power, 50% off, cell force, 50% off, survival
shield X2, 50% off, vitamin mineral fusion, 50% off, the red pill, 50% off, all super
blue products.
That's the toothpaste, the mouthwash with colloidal silver.
I'm getting so excited.
Colloidal silver and iodine in them, secret 12, 50% off, all info, war's life, select
storeable food, 50% off.
And let's go with the other ones that aren't 50% off.
Univore, floor life, 33% off, pro pure products, 25% off.
All these are with free shipping, DNA force, 33% off, silver bullet, 67% off.
It's like less than $10 a bottle for some of the most powerful colloidal silver on the
market.
$9.95 a bottle.
Don't stop.
Go to infowarstore.com, check out our great deals, free shipping.
You can't beat them anywhere.
So use some of that money you got from grandma for Christmas and help us out.
Appreciate it.
Now, how do I know that the world is waking up?
It's stories like this from Axios.
Facebook stopped putting disputed flags on fake news because it doesn't work.
Because more people clicked on those stories because they knew it was a bogus flag.
They can see through the BS, Mark Zuckerberg, Zuck, Zuck, Zuck cucked himself.
You could say right there, Facebook stopped putting disputed, so we beat them and less
than like, they put this out two months ago.
It didn't even take that long.
That's how easily we're destroying the lies.
So let's go back to my two guests, Pamphlet Anon and Baruch Describe.
They're both 4chan, 8chan moderators, also on Reddit.
Once again, I want to tell people where they can go to find out all the information on
QAnon.
It is reddit.com forward slash r forward slash cbts underscore stream.
It's kind of a long one.
But once you get that, put that in your browser history and you can go to it at any time.
And it's the subreddit com before the storm.
And I want to go back to that last, from the Q map, from that PDF, or he says, have faith.
We don't live, I know people want to have everything like a drive through mentality.
I order my food and I get it.
It's not like that.
Things take time.
We have to have faith.
Guys, go ahead and each take a couple of minutes, explain why people need to have faith,
but why they also need to get active.
They can't just sit on the sidelines and wait for things to happen.
Yeah, sure.
You're right.
I mean, it takes time, but it does take work.
It takes a lot of work.
The amount of work that the people who are involved in this put into this is just incredible.
And the work they do is, like I said before, totally phenomenal.
But man, some of the things that some of the truths that get revealed through this are
distasteful things, they're disgusting things.
I've seen things I wish I could unsee, man, it's six stuff.
And I think it's important that people really pay attention to this because this stuff is
really terrible stuff.
And it's going on right under our noses where we've been letting it happen for so long.
And people have been trying to get the word out there, but nobody has really truly paid
attention.
And I think the biggest thing about this is that people finally are starting to wake up
to it.
Go ahead, Bruce.
Yeah, I completely agree, man.
It's a lot of sick stuff.
Q did warn us.
He said, in fact, he warned us in one of his posts while back, he said, difficult to swallow
but important to progress though.
And I thought, yes, you're going to tell us the truth, aren't you?
Do the elites worship Satan?
Sorry, I don't have it right in front of me, so I'm paraphrasing, but I'm pretty close.
Do the elites worship Satan?
I mean, do they go to Epstein Island?
That's Jeffrey Epstein, the man who is at the center of the Peterphal scandal during
Bill Clinton's presidency.
What do they do there?
What symbol is on the top of the temple on Epstein Island?
So yeah, these are unimaginable horrors if you've never been exposed to them before,
but they need to be faced.
There is an awful lot of information out there.
The problem is, because it's so horrifying, it attracts a lot of disinformation.
Thank you to the clowns for that, but there is a lot of good information.
I would recommend reading the books by people like Kathy O'Brien, people like Bryce Taylor,
and going into them with a mindset that this woman is telling the truth.
And then you can start red-pilling yourself very quickly.
He mentions Snow White, let's see, I don't know, maybe 20 times in his posts.
He also mentions the Godfather 3.
What does that represent in these?
He mentions the Godfather 3 almost as many times as Snow White.
So go ahead, what does that represent?
These are the lovely little cryptic clues that we love to spend hours and hours trying
to unravel.
So Snow White is the CIA supercomputer called Hammer, H-A-M-R, and it's hosted at Amazon's
data center.
And Snow White in the seventh world is the CIA, we believe, again, this is not confirmed.
We believe that it's their supercomputer infrastructure that they use to conduct domestic
surveillance, which of course is entirely illegal, but that's never stopped them before.
So Snow White in the seventh world's reference is to the clowns in action.
His film references are fascinating.
There's the sum of all peers, which as you know, is about a suitcase nuke, it's a Tom
County story about a suitcase nuke that goes off on the continental US.
And Jack Lyon discovers that it was a terrorist group because of the uranium signature.
Very good book.
One of my favorite novels of it.
Then there's the Hunforell October, where it's just like maybe a little piece of the
plot is the key that we need to grab.
But on our channel, on our channel, Summon On will know that, oh, this book really refers
to this, and then we'll find the right answer.
So I can't tell you for sure what we're up to, I think we had October means the torpedo
that comes back and destroys the Russian set.
Right, right.
Hillary and Obama's Russian marriages is actually backfire.
Is their torpedo and it's coming around because they did the maneuver, Trump did the maneuver
and it's pop.
Yeah.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Godfather III, a number of possibilities.
The plot is the Pope, obviously, the Pope is obviously asked Michael Corleone.
For some financial help in exchange for control.
So is it as simple as that or is it as simple as one of the, one of the very first lines
in the movie where Michael says, children are the most precious wealth in all the world.
You know, the only treasure we're having is there's something like that.
I mean, is that for him?
We don't know yet, but we will because he will turn up again and he will explain this.
So we're confident that yeah, all the answers are coming.
Excellent.
Yep.
I want to remind everybody where they can go.
We got it like a minute left.
Yeah.
Listen, if I could, if I could expand real quick on what I said before, I think, I think
it's really important to mention that this is not just Trump supporters involved in this.
This is people from all sides that are waking up to what's going on here.
And I think it's important that we recognize that.
And we were, a lot of us really need to kind of bury the hatchet, especially for something
this big.
Because we're fighting evil.
We need to come together for this man.
Yes.
This is sick stuff.
And it really needs to be taken care of.
Gentlemen, thank you for joining me.
We definitely have to do something in the New Year long form, commercial free, hopefully
in our new podcast studio, which can all be built thanks to you by going to infowarstore.com
and checking out some of the great deals.
Happy New Year, everyone.
I'll see you in 2018.
It's going to be a great year.
I can't wait.
infowarstore.com forward slash show war rooms up next.
Not a group.
You developed living defense for us.
It took you over a year to do it.
Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in
my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere.
These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the name in there.
You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing the parasite plans at least twice a year.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday.
Living defense infowarstore.com.
And folks, you can't lose full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast infowarstore.com.
Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
Top scientists and researchers agree.
We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick,
and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it.
Fight back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the
crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called Black Pepper Fruit Extract.
It gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal.
Brain Force Plus, secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
We're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
