You want answers? Well, so does he.
Live from the Infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
Folks, I have plugged maybe two hours, I mean two minutes in the last two hours and I need
to fund the operation plus we got some great products.
So ahead of William Benny joining us, former head of the NSA with some bombshell news on
the whole Russia investigation, I'm going to talk about some of the unbelievable sales
and exciting things that are going on right now at InfowarsStore.com.
My friends, we're in the middle of the Second American Revolution.
The globalist social engineers are trying to play us off against each other in a big way.
They're trying to play us off according to race, according to region, according to ethnicity,
background, sexual orientation, male, female.
And again, it's in the WikiLeaks, it's in the Facebook documents.
It's in their own admissions that they're cold, bloodedly doing this.
And it's up to us to understand they're doing that and to transcend it and to educate others
about what's happening and what is unfolding.
The divide and conquer we're witnessing is a desperate last ditch attempt.
To have this country, forget that we were under globalist control.
Forget that the social compact had been broken.
Forget that we had been deindustrialized and to basically grab victory from the jaws of defeat.
We've beaten the globalist.
The fact that we're aware of their multi-ansional operation, the fact that we're aware of their
private fellow reserve, the fact that the public is becoming more and more informed,
that's the end of their operation.
So if we can beat their censorship, if we can reach out to other folks that aren't awake yet,
and if we can elect good people to public office but also rebuild our industrial and cultural base,
America's best days are ahead of us, not behind us.
To quote Merle Haggard, the late great,
we don't have to keep rolling downhill like a snowball headed for hell
with no chance for freedom or the Liberty Bell.
It's here.
But at the same time, the globalists are trying to cut off the funding
of organizations and institutions and operations that are telling the truth
and that are exposing their narrative in real time.
That's why this Christmas, it is more important than ever to support info wars
because you're supporting yourself and you can beat the crowds, beat the traffic,
beat the high prices, beat the garbage, beat the additives
and get from the biggest budget to the lowest budget high quality products
that you, your family, your friends, your loved ones, that those that you're giving gifts need.
We have 70 plus high quality supplements that we produce, that we develop with top firms
and other high quality brands that we also carry at infowarstore.com
and we have Patriot Apparel that helps you meet like-minded people,
support the broadcast and spread the word. High quality water filtration, air filtration,
non-GMO, heirloom seeds and so much more.
If you'll just do some of your Christmas shopping for your loved ones at infowarstore.com
you'll get them original, healthy, high quality, low cost products
that will make their lives better and at the same time defeat the globalists in the information war.
Don't shop with the globalists, don't trade with the enemy as much as you can
and none of us are perfect, support independent media that stands up for what's right.
You can shop at infowarstore.com or infowarslife.com
or call toll free, triple A, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
You can also give infowarstore gift cards to friends and family.
That's a great way to get them to visit the site and find out about the political message
while they're getting high quality products at the same time.
And we also now have Patreon points where you get 5% off of every purchase
added to your account for future purchases.
That is a high end system at 5% compared to most rewards cards.
That is on the very high end of the spectrum for the level of 5%.
So please do your Christmas shopping at infowarsstore.com
and help find the tip of the spear against the globalists.
We've got a lot of huge sales that are 50% off on some of our best selling products.
So Merry Christmas and thanks for the support.
Fuel your body with carnivore, the new digestive enzyme product by infowarslife.
Digestive enzymes assist in the digestive process
and increase the bioavailability of nutrients by breaking down foods into easily absorbable components.
They also help prevent discomfort from indigestion caused by fermentation of undigested food particles in the gut.
Digestive enzyme production declines as we age.
Carnivore is filled with digestive enzymes like those naturally present in the body.
Enjoy the full potential of protein rich foods again.
You can eat protein heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion and discomfort
commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Carnivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by infowarslife.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's infowarslife.com.
From the front lines of the information war, it's Alex Jones.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, into the third hour.
I'm your host, Alex Jones, and we're joined by really an American hero,
William Benny, former technical director of the National Security Agency,
one of the most famous code breakers in U.S. history and the equivalent of a multi-star general
when he was heading up that agency.
He's also been a whistleblower to Congress, been SWAT-teamed, been targeted, been persecuted,
but never charged with anything because it was all intimidation.
Exposedfacts.org, a goodamerican.org is the award-winning film he's in.
He was also the main technical director and fact director for Oliver Stone's incredible film, Snowden.
So much of what we now know about the illegal spider had been used against us for the political class
is thanks to him, Mr. Drake, Sybil Edmonds, and many others.
But he is the chief whistleblower out there, ladies and gentlemen.
He's going to be talking about PGKnowledge.eu today and some of the important work he's doing.
But first off, he hasn't talked a lot about this, but today he said he's ready to talk about it
in light of the whole Russiagate investigation.
He wants to get into that, and his meeting with the CIA director, Mr. Pompeo, a few weeks ago.
So we're going to talk about how that meeting took place and as much as he can now reveal to this audience today.
So thank you so much, William Benny, for joining us to discuss this.
Well, thanks for having me, Alex.
Well, you've got the floor. Where would you like to start?
Well, I think we should start with the research we've been doing on the data,
allegedly coming from a hack by the Russians to the DNC server.
This was the data that was made available from Guccifer 2 that talked about the leak or the hack that he called a hack
on the 5th of July of 2016.
That data he made available for us to look at, so we started looking at it.
And the first thing we found was the speeds were rather high for a transfer across the web to Europe from the US.
In fact, the speed, I was here in Europe with Duncan Campbell reviewing all this data again.
And we found that the highest speed that that data ran from was taken down off the server, supposedly.
This is also, this is all alleged now.
So it was a 49.1 megabytes per second, which is roughly a little over four times the rate that we could get by a transfer.
We also attempted to transfer data across the Atlantic to Europe to various places in Amsterdam, the UK.
One of the fellows even looked at transferring it to Belgrade and also Albania,
but there was pointless even try because the network couldn't even handle it anywhere near it there.
So the highest we got was roughly one fourth the speed necessary to transfer the data,
which meant it was impossible to go across the net.
But it is, however, they're compatible with a download to a thumb drive.
So if you had a USB thumb drive, you could download it at those speeds.
So what you're saying as a technical expert who tested it,
this was an inside job just like Snowden doing on a thumb drive at point blank range.
The speed that this was basically impossible to be an outside hack,
which is what we know from British ambassadors from spies from other leaks.
Can you then quantify why Trump wanted you to meet with Pompeo to explain this to him?
Well, he, well, director Pompeo said to me when I first sat down,
he said, the president said, I should talk to you if I wanted to get facts about the Russiagate.
That was really a shocking statement to me because what that really says to me is the intelligence agencies
aren't even telling the president or the head of the CIA the facts in the case.
I mean, if they ask me what the facts are, why aren't the intelligence agencies,
the FBI, NSA, CIA, the members of the CIA telling even their president or the chief of the CIA, the central intelligence agency.
And I know it's all classified, you can't get into it, but I mean, a lot of this is public now.
The president has the code keys, he's got authorization, he could go in and see all this,
but of course it was the Obama holdovers, we know, up until Trump got into office that were still there with the keys spying on the president-elect.
We now know that.
Yes, for example, early on when the conversation between President Trump and the president of Mexico and Australia were released,
I mean, that's a clear indication that that kind of information to me came from NSA
because any communications of the president leaving the White House are encrypted.
So the agency that has the keys and provides the equipment and the keys for the president to communicate is NSA.
So they would be able to decrypt and translate all those conversations.
So they certainly are a prime suspect for releasing that.
But let me get back to that hack in July of 2015-16.
There's more to it than just that.
When we looked at the data, there were two batches of releases.
The main one came from the, was dated the 5th of July.
There's a later one dated the 1st of September, also from Guccifer 2.
But when you looked at them and you, if you only looked at minutes, seconds and milliseconds, those two data sets merge.
They merge bit right together like a glove and on a hand.
So that you basically would have one continuous set of information.
So it means to us that Guccifer 2 is playing games and that this wasn't even a hack.
You don't even know if it was a hack of the DNC or if it was something downloaded, transferred somewhere else and then downloaded again.
Sir, I know this is simple for you as a top expert, but just explain.
Not only transfer rates showed how to be done point blank at the computer at the server itself,
but also the data, the way it was taken down and put down together was all done together, congruent at one time.
Yeah, and it basically says that Guccifer 2 is playing a game with us, right?
They're playing a game with us and everybody else.
Because it's not the Russians that can be inside these secret facilities, obviously, getting the info.
Yeah, well, that, plus all of the indications are that it wasn't even a hack at all in any way, shape or form.
Wow, so you explain this to Pompeo, please continue.
Yes, and also I said that if members of Congress are going to call this an act of war,
then they ought to do like President John F. Kennedy did and President Reagan.
Kennedy released the photographs of the missiles in Cuba during the Cuban Missile Crisis because it was something that was very serious.
And also when the Russians shot down the Korean South Korean airline over South Korean island,
he released the ground to air control of the fighters giving where the ground control ordered the shoot down of the plane.
So those were serious situations and they basically declassified classified information so that they could show how serious the situation was
and prove it to the American public and everyone else.
Incredible. Now, I know you're a scientist, a computer scientist, so you just go off the facts, but just big picture.
Looking at this with William Benny, who's blown all this wide open, the president wanted you to go talk to the head of the CIA.
He doesn't even have the keys to the NSA.
He can get into all this. They've got him sequestered, but he's getting enough info to know he needs to talk to you.
Showing again the whole Russia things made up, it was an inside job of people trying to expose the criminality of Hillary and what was going on.
Yeah, there's really no guarantee that even if he asks for all the information about Russia that's held by NSA or the FBI,
that they'll even give it to him because they don't, you know, if they don't want to give away information to anybody,
they can keep it and hide it internally. They don't have to share it with anyone.
Couldn't the president appoint you as a special investigator and you've got the clearances to go in there and investigate for him?
Well, I don't have the clearances anymore.
But the president could get those for you.
Yes, yes, he could. Yes. That's true.
Would you take that job if the president authorized you to?
If he wanted me to do that, I would do that. Yes, absolutely.
And that'd be their worst nightmare. I mean, we can't trust the former head of the NSA. Who can we trust?
I mean, it's just a bunch of politicos in there with the code keys.
Samantha Powers, all of them in there meeting with the former CIA director and everybody to set up Trump.
I mean, these people are just have committed incredible crimes, in my view.
We'll be back with William Benning, a true American hero.
There's John Wayne, the actor, then there's the real John Wayne's, and William Benning's one of those.
We'll be right back, folks. Stay with us.
Matt and Ohio, you're on the air. Another Matt, go ahead.
Yeah, hey, listen, I just wanted to say real quick, I'm a longtime listener of InfoWars.
And I just wanted to say that the t-shirts that you guys are offering are absolutely fantastic.
And that really is a great way to deal with this battle in the InfoWars.
It might seem like a simple thing, but they particularly these slogan t-shirts that you guys got up right now are absolutely amazing.
Well, thank you. My favorite new one is the don't tread on me, but said it says won't tread on me.
And it's a big Daeglo snake, Gadsden snake, and then it's got the American flag, InfoWars.com on the right arm.
I mean, that's a great way just to meet like-minded people and spread the word and also exercise free speech.
And the newest one is Trigger Warning t-shirt.
Trigger Warning t-shirt, which is the symbol of a trigger with a yield sign and then InfoWars.com on the back.
That is the new shirt of the mind available exclusively at InfoWars.com.
Introducing Floor Life, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWars Life after years of research on the human microbiome.
Not all probiotics are made the same.
Floor Life probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics, so if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Floor Life supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining, and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
This is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfoWarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of Floor Life probiotics today. That's InfoWarsLife.com.
And let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts, and entire meals.
Woo, that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation, like canning or dehydrating, you know, like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest right freeze dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color, and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation. Harvest right is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at InfoWarsStore.com.
Michael ZX is back. And just like we're game changing when it comes to politics, when it comes to the economy, we're game changing on supplements.
I want to bring you products from the best research out there, from the best labs, the best laboratories, the best scientists that really change lives.
Because I want you to get a great effect. I want you to have a great life, be healthy. I want you to see the results, so you reorder it and tell your friends and family about it.
We say a fungus is a scourge, molds a scourge, and you can't battle it with this in your sinus or other areas, but in your gut, the main area you can.
Michael ZX, available exclusively. Been out for over six months at InfoWarsLive.com, or by calling toll free, triple A, two, five, three, three, one, three, nine.
Ladies and gentlemen, I only bring you products I use myself. I only bring you products that have been proven, that have dynamite effects.
Michael ZX is back on stock right now at InfoWarsLive.com. Secure yours today.
Live from Austin, Texas, broadcasting worldwide, it's Alex Jones.
Ladies and gentlemen, William Benny, the former head of technical, actual operations of the National Security Agency, the man behind the movie Snowden, the main expert on that, is our guest this segment and next.
He is on the road in Europe. He thinks his computer battery will probably last about 45 after or so, but if it cuts out, he'll be gone.
This is so huge, okay? He's one of the leading experts in the world. The president wanted him to meet with the CIA director because they're trying to understand what's going on, because this is so complex and the agencies don't tell each other a lot of information.
And so here is William Benny looking at the supposed Russian hack they're saying. They've never proven, Guccifer 2.0 was a Russian, but now we know what British ambassadors and others have said they've been told.
They've said they've met with the supposed Guccifer and that it was a group of U.S. intelligence operatives and people that were upset about what was happening.
I have had high level contacts confirm that to me back during the election, and I know that people like Eric Prince got information that I had separately had but not released about it and that Eric Prince knows.
So all I'm saying is this is not a secret. This has been in British and German newspapers, but not really in our news. It's a huge scandal. It's the key to understanding Russiagate and how they're trying to remove our president with zero evidence.
They've got NSA transcripts of General Flynn not doing anything wrong, but then an FBI agent who worked for Hillary who's disgraced is the one that wrote up the forms claiming what he told them didn't match the NSA spine.
So this is huge, huge news and blows the whole Russian narrative wide open. William Benny, please break this down and get into other angles because again, you're the expert.
Well, we're looking at other evidence also that technical evidence that looks like even earlier claims might be a total sham also.
So in other words, it looks like most virtually all this data has been a fabrication that's been created as a diversion basically so that we can pay attention.
It's like we're playing the Wizard of Oz game. Pay attention. Don't pay any attention to the man behind the curtain. Look at all the aside show that's going on.
Pay attention over here and don't look at me. So I just think that this whole thing has been a setup from the beginning and it's being right now.
The technical evidence is starting to show that improve that and we'll be publishing information about that hopefully very soon.
Wow. Was your whole meeting with Pompeo.
I mean, did he say it was off record or what else can you tell us about this amazing meeting requested by the president?
No, he didn't. He didn't say it was off the record or anything. He just said he just said he wanted to talk to me about getting the president asked me and him to talk to me about getting facts about rush gate.
So I just told him everything I knew at the time and we're getting more and more information that kind of corroborates everything we've been saying about it being a fabrication.
And we'll be adding that publicly shortly, I hope. So it's a matter of verifying everything we've done. We don't want to say something that we can't actually show and prove.
Well, I know that you've received classified awards. You can't talk about those, but it's been reported that you've gotten some of the biggest awards in the country you can get.
I mean, you were running operations against the Russians and so you'd be the expert to investigate the Russians.
But from your spy chief gravitas, when you say it looks like it's a setup beyond just an inside job, without getting into statecraft and things, as an expert, what are you seeing?
There are people in other countries involved, like in the UK, with the supposed report from the British intelligence, you know, that kind of thing.
And also internally, if you believe Sy Hirsch, what he's saying is people in the FBI know exactly who leaked the data and they're not talking about that.
And so there are people in the FBI, people in lower ranks in the CIA, also people in NSA who are involved in all of this.
So those are the three agencies of the main ones who made up the intelligence community assessment, where they claimed 17 intelligence agencies, well, it was really only three.
And it was handpicked people from those three to come up with a predetermined outcome, which is what they did. And they wrote a 14-page ICA intelligence community assessment paper that started out by saying,
we have high confidence that, and it's our judgment that we have high confidence that the Russians had to hack.
But then at the very bottom, page 13, it says, please don't interpret our judgment that we have absolute facts to prove that this is absolutely true.
So what they're saying is, you know, this whole report was a big sham, and they had no evidence whatsoever, nothing to back up any claim they were making.
And it was just, you know, another fabrication. So it just shows you the extent of the organization behind this charade.
Well, I know where to look out of these 17 agencies, it's that handful of people that put out the hoax and all 17 agencies all concurred,
and then who put out these scurrilous fake reports. And I think you start with them in your investigation of who really cooked all this garbage up.
If you were speaking to the president, and he obviously listens to what you have to say and what you write, what would you say he needs to do next?
I would say he needs to clean house. He's got to start firing people who are in charge of these agencies and replace them with people who do a proper job.
And that means cleaning out the internal internally, the cleaning out the agencies and making sure they start to obey the Constitution, which they're not doing now.
And that includes the Department of Justice. I'm not excluding them either. They're a part of this charade too.
In one form or another, they're covering up for the people who are involved in this, because if the FBI knows who did it, they also know at least some of them.
Now, whether they're telling anybody, that's another story.
I wonder how they think they're going to get away with it when it's the Clintons that have this huge history with the Russians and uranium one and their foundation.
And then you've got Trump surveilled. We learned by Obama when he first got into office. I was also on the list.
That was a whole data leak that came out of federal law enforcement. And there were hundreds of thousands of names and phone numbers of mine that were private.
And I even had some of Trump's private numbers. Those were his numbers at Mar-Lago and also one of his private numbers at Trump Tower.
I never even had the nerve to use, but we got the list. And I was like, well, that's the number I got for him at Mar-Lago.
So they were illegally surveilling him all these years and intensified during the campaign. And then they can't even find anything.
That shows he's got a pretty good record of their illegally spying on him and nothing's there.
Yeah, but it also shows all the illegality that they've been involved in, including violations of the 1st, 4th, 5th and 6th Amendments trying to use his communications without warrants against him in terms of charging him with something.
That is a clear violation of the founding principles of our nation. And this is fundamentally treason at the highest levels in my view.
You're right. William Benny's our guest. I think it's fair to say that the House of Cards is coming down. I mean, it's coming out. They surveilled them.
It's in the Flynn documents. They got caught lying. So what do we do legally now to make sure that they end up getting in trouble before they launch the next part of their fiction, as Ron Paul called it last week.
As you called it, a charade where they're planning to indict the president for obstruction of justice.
The word is as early as Christmas. And I reported that Friday they now NBC News yesterday said that that is the word. They're looking to indict the president.
We'll be back with William Benny.
Super male vitality was developed to activate your body's natural processes instead of using synthetic chemicals.
Info Wars life wants to bring you the highest quality products.
Our unique combination of ingredients is designed to assist the body in regulating proper balance and creating superior vitality in males.
Support your body and mind and take yourself to the next level.
Boost your vitality and energize your life.
Take control of your body. Grab a bottle of super male vitality today at infowarslife.com.
That's infowarslife.com.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Starters don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
You deserve a deep restful sleep with knockout by Info Wars Life.
Our organic formula is made from high quality natural ingredients such as Valerian root extract, L tryptophan, lemon balm leaf extract and melatonin.
Knockout packs a powerful punch to get you through the night and achieve proper sleep.
Millions of people around the world experience daytime drowsiness, but with the rapid speed of life we need to be able to keep up the pace.
Our natural mixture harnesses the power of 10 known ingredients to let your body relax and get the sleep you need.
Wake up refreshed and take on the day. Info Wars Life wants to bring you a sleep support formula that goes above and beyond other leading brands at an affordable price.
Get the sleep you deserve and experience the power of knockout.
Head on over to infowarslife.com and say goodbye to fatigue. That's infowarslife.com.
Discover and try a bag of the Patriot Blend 100% organic coffee at infowarslife.com.
This coffee gives you a long, smooth pick me up for hours without the headaches and heartburn that so many other coffees give me personally.
Hands down, this is my favorite coffee and it's taken us years to secure connections directly to the Chiapas Mexican farmers.
Drop by the site today, order a bag or two and I don't think you're going to be disappointed. Available in original or with our immune support infusion blend.
You will be supporting a free press all the while enjoying a truly great tasting cup of my favorite coffee available at infowarslife.com.
Every question they don't want you to ask, he has the answer they don't want you to hear. He is Alex Jones.
And that doesn't mean I have all the answers but the amazing guest we have like William Benny and Dr. Ron Paul and others, they do have the answers.
And I was just on the website PGKnowledge.eu and the Good American and a bunch of others and they've got the documents and the breakdowns of the fraud that it was an internal deal.
There was no Russian hacking. They're just involved in a giant hoax and they want to basically have it where any surveillance of their illegal activities supposedly Russian because they're committing all these crimes.
But again, William Benny is our guest PGKnowledge.eu, the film, A Good American. In the nine minutes we have left sir, please break down the great work you're doing in Europe.
Again, it's so important the president asked you to meet with the CIA director and just other key facts that folks should be made aware of.
First of all, I would recommend that they take a look at the Good American movie. It's only something like $4 to look at Netflix and so on on web and you can access there.
It really gives you the background. My career in NSA give you the idea how intelligence works, but also it leads you into understanding how they're doing this mass surveillance and what it means and how it can all be pulled together.
And then, of course, it also gives you the idea of how they're violating the Constitution and everybody's rights even though they don't know it.
But they shouldn't go around saying things like I'm not doing anything wrong so I have nothing to fear simply because they're not really free to have free thoughts and be creative and innovative without having the government watch you.
Because if you start doing something that is not compatible with their thinking they'll come after you just like they did us.
And so they made it impossible fundamentally for us to do the kind of analytic job that we had developed inside NSA and do a similar job outside commercially or even with other departments of government they wouldn't let us do it.
They got us fired and contracts terminated and it was all series of things they did first at the NGO and then at INSCOM then at Customs and Border Protection and so everywhere we went they made sure that we couldn't succeed at that job.
So eventually and then the Department of Justice started coming after us trying to put us in jail with fabricated evidence and we stopped all that by telling them that we had exculpatory data and evidence then that they were doing their effort was malicious prosecution and then they finally left us alone.
So in the end you know after so many years at that we basically found an opportunity over here in Europe where they value privacy more and we decided to come over here and do this job over here put together systems that will allow us to analyze massive amounts of data and pull out only what's necessary
and what's relevant and make sense of massive data which we could have done in the US about 20 years ago but they denied it and kept us from doing it.
So we're over here now doing that and we're looking at commercial applications, insurance and banking and all kinds of applications on massive data around Europe.
So basically the trailblazing research you did that could actually target real terrorists, real criminals and not violate everybody's privacy at the same time really stopping disasters.
You've run into folks in Europe that are actually looking at allowing you to actually try to build that.
Yeah and they're actually helping us by you know they're organizing and we're forming a company and they're backing us and financing it so yeah absolutely.
That's amazing.
A good American is amazing.
I had to come over here to do it you know.
What's the matter with America?
Well as you warned previously as a whistleblower and then in interviews and here and then of course the movie Snowden, the political class is making hundreds of billions of dollars off this giant super spy grid that spies on everything.
But then it's so massively over targeted it then does nothing to actually stop real problems.
It violates everybody's rights and then lets the political class use it in political campaigns not just against Republicans but the Democrats and the CIA have used it against Dianne Feinstein and others and it's all admitted they've illegally done it.
And it's now this nightmare with a new super class with God like omnipresent surveillance powers.
Drag netting their political opposition.
It's just astounding.
Yeah and it they're acting like they have no respect for the law and they're above the law and nobody's going to do anything about it.
I mean here you have these people lying directly into Congress and everybody knows it they got caught at it and still nothing happens.
Now what is the matter with the Department of Justice.
Why aren't they holding these people accountable.
I mean they certainly do that with whistleblowers who are exposing the problems and the crimes.
Anybody who exposes something you step on them and everybody else who commits them you give them right to act.
I was about to say Loretta Lynch.
At first they lied about the tarmac meeting.
Then when it came out it was totally illegal.
He was under criminal investigation by her.
The FBI documents have now been released by the FBI.
They're trying to find out if it was a cop or whoever to get them fired to cover up the crime.
They're admittedly obstructing justice right there.
It's just incredible and then the very Mueller that covered up Uranium One and criminal investigations and red-handed Russian payoffs for our strategic Uranium talk about takeover.
They then he kills the investigation and now he's the guy trying to indict Trump.
Right and you can also don't forget that Mueller and Comey were the two of the main players back in as early as 2001 and 2004 in the Department of Justice and the FBI who actually were using the stellar wind program.
They illegally acquired data against individuals inside the United States for common criminal activity.
And of course then they did the parallel construction of the DEA and the rest of it.
And then so they were in charge I guess later when you got SWAT-teamed too right?
I mean these are monsters.
That's right. They're basically criminals. That's all.
Gosh. And they know it's criminal what they did and it's all come out. Wow.
Well I tell you we can just get rid of these guys.
That's why I'm calling our Department of Justice now our Department of Just Us.
Wow. Well sir I'm just blown away by your courage and Mr. Drake's courage and all the others and what you've gone through and how they tried to put you guys in prison.
That's a whole other story but then patriots inside justice would leak that you'd been set up.
So there is a God. There is justice but good men and women have to stand up and have to tell the truth.
I hope this whole Clinton globalist Bush establishment swamp face sucker can finally be removed off our face and I think it says a lot about Trump that he had Pompeo meet with you and that he's the target of these people.
I mean I think it says a lot about Trump that he's doing that.
Yeah I think they're really afraid of him and what he'll be able to achieve.
They're also afraid of him because he might see through them which I think he does and start to break up their game.
That's one of the things they don't want to happen.
I mean the thing that they fear most is sunlight on the activities they've been performing and they want to keep it.
That's why the mainstream media is one of their main targets so they won't broadcast any other opinions or views other than the ones they want shared.
So I think the basic problem with why they hate Trump so much is because they fear him so much.
That's right and as you've said now Google Facebook Twitter they're using NSA style tools to spy on liberal conservative you name it outside speech
and then censor us in real time not just keep you off mainstream news not just keep me off
but then censor us in real time not because we're fake news but because we're researched real news.
Yeah that's right and you can't have that in a controlled environment.
That's also what one of the reasons one of the things I said about the bulk surveillance is one of the main objectives is population control.
Now also to make that happen you have to control the narrative that's fed to the larger population of the country
and that takes the mainstream media and that's basically what's happening. They are in fact controlled by the by the government the shadow government
than those who want to control the narrative.
And now they admit they want to sew it up in free speech and authoritarianism now they have their spy grid in place.
This is this is really happening like history shows it would.
Well you're really a hero and you don't want to hear that but you really are a hero and you've been vindicated and everything.
You're a real class act William Benny. Thank you for your time and Godspeed.
Well thank you.
Folks learn more at goodamerican.org or pgknowledge.eu.
It's up to us now to spread the word. Thank you doctor.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo. Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and BioTrue Selenium at infowarslife.com.
We are extending free shipping store wide at infowarsstore.com into early January and the massive 50 to 67% off all our best selling items.
So ladies and gentlemen whether it's colloidal silver or brain force or mycozx or fluorolife they're now back in stock.
They're all massively discounted with free shipping at infowarsstore.com.
Take advantage of it right through the new year in a salute to the info warriors and into a thanks to all of you that have made this operation possible.
From myself, the entire info wars crew, thank you for your support, thank you for bringing America back from the edge of death and thank you for standing against the globalist and their bullying garbage.
Hey did you know that you can now preserve your own food for up to 25 years and still maintain its nutrition and flavor.
That's right now's the time to build your own food storage with Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers.
Go to infowarsstore.com to learn more and check out this innovative and smart technology that's easy to use.
And let me tell you something, it is perfect for freeze drying fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, desserts and entire meals.
Woo that's what I'm talking about.
And when compared to traditional methods of preservation like canning or dehydrating, you know like what you get at the grocery store, there is no comparison.
Harvest Rights Freeze Dryers retain 97% of the food's taste, color and nutritional value and have a shelf life of up to 25 years.
Now that's what I call the miracle of food preservation.
Harvest Rights is truly the world's best, most affordable freeze dryer.
So what are you waiting for? Check it out right now at infowarsstore.com.
I am very proud to announce the introduction of the highest quality info wars biome defense probiotic.
We wanted to come out with the largest spectrum of high quality known probiotics that have been proven to improve overall digestion and health and detoxification in the body.
Biome defends as an exclusive blend of 50 billion live and active cultures from over 23 different probiotic strains that are known to support digestion and intestinal function.
Our researchers are confident that we have been able to develop what will be the leading probiotic on the market.
Secure your biome defense in ultra strength or regular strength at infowarslife.com today and get started supporting your digestive system naturally.
We've been testing this formula for years, but this is the limited first run to the public, so please take advantage of it today, support your own health and support the info war.
Defending the Republic from enemies, foreign and domestic, it's Alex Jones.
It's coming out that these FBI agents that are having to leave the whole fake Mueller investigation didn't just exonerate Hillary and cover up for her when her and her aides lied,
but they praised DOJ official after defying Trump travel ban that the Supreme Court has now again completely authorized.
And of course we knew that would happen. It's clear in law, but I've got a bunch of news on that front right now.
The first thing I want to get at here though is that this Mueller thing is completely transparent.
And that's why the media now goes into this whole hoax mode of fake news that Trump got caught working with the Russians during the campaign and Flynn's going to testify to it because it's all they've got and they did that on purpose.
So you've got to know they did that on purpose to test it to see if folks bought it and then to suspend their head investigator who's famous for doing that stuff for four weeks to gauge it.
They're testing right now. And so get ready for some other whoppers because a lot of psychological studies show you put big enough lies like that out.
It just creates the perception, even if people find out it's not true, it still gives those that want to buy into it a subconscious hope.
It's very, very delusional behavior, but they're getting ready with the indictment for obstruction, so they need to kind of have that background out there.
Now, I didn't cover this a few days ago when they attacked me because there's a new attack every day, but Newsweek and everything else put out lies about yours truly.
Because media matters run by George Soros put out a story attacking me. So when they do that, all the other minions go, oh, our boss said, do this, let's follow it.
And they said that I put out a vile anti-lesbian rant where I said, lesbians want to eat people's brains.
No, I said, then you've got the rich executive types like 50 shades of gray that want to torture you.
They trick you into a bondage setting and then they torture you. I was talking about the whole bondage situation where people end up getting in bad situations when they get tied up.
So I was mixing the two things together. I don't hate anybody, they're gay or lesbian or any of that, but it's a fact that in the gay or straight bondage movement,
if you study criminology, not just here, but in Europe, it's really bad in England and really bad in Germany.
Like one of the main guys in the Scorpion said, no, I've been to parties and clubs where they kill people and folks, they do and it's coming out.
Gay, straight, you name it, I'm just saying bad stuff. So the media that ended that together to make it sound like I'm seeing lesbians are eating brains.
No, I said, globalist devil worshipers do stuff like that.
And there's been cases of psychopaths that do eat people's brains while they're alive.
It was the guy up in Milwaukee, Jeffrey Dahmer. So that's how desperate fake news is.
InfoWars host Jones vile anti-lesbian rant. Jones impersonates a liberal lesbian eating brains.
Well, they got a problem. Somebody else put out fake news about it, about what I talked about it, and they got it right, but also wrong.
Alex Jones's Harvey Weinstein comments are vile beyond belief where I talk about how they train you to get tied up like 50 shades of gray, but then you end up getting tortured and killed.
You go to California, you're there, you're going to be a crack whore and they're done using you. They're going to put you in a snuff film for European consumption and they're going to torture you to death.
I'm talking about general evil, heterosexual, homosexual, you name it.
And then here it is, studies that prove domestic violence is LGBT issue.
The part about lesbians was about most studies show they have the highest levels of domestic abuse.
It's just what it's in the news. So it's not just like men hurt women or vice versa.
It's that this goes on with women too. Women aren't perfect. Let's all stop bashing each other and just realize the facts.
Now, the reason I raise all that, and here it is, Soros fund manager, rate, beat, playboy models, $27 million lawsuit, Soros fund manager, blah, blah, blah.
You have this other group, branding women, using women to recruit them.
And you had Hollywood star females that were second in command, former Smithfield actress, second in command in sex cult, torture cult.
I mean, I'm just reading the stuff. Hollywood actresses, sex slavery, enslaving other women.
I'm just telling you, this is what's at the bottom of the barrel is men and women torturing people.
Lesbian women, straight women, gay men, straight men. It's going on. It's happening. That's what I'm saying.
And then it'll be, Jones went back to attacking the lesbians again.
Yes, there are lesbians who do bad things. There are straight people who do bad things. I'm sick of it.
Everybody knows I'm not on some kick against lesbians or anybody else.
I'd be a big hypocrite if I was. I like women. I get it.
So the point is, is that now there's this story on info wars.com and news wars.com that just broke. Hashtag me to female singer accused of rape by farmer colleague.
It's moment of reckoning coming for female predators.
And folks, I see the police reports, the news, but it's always back in the paper or I know folks it happens to where you get the butch chick.
And then she beats up the non butch chick and you know, smacks around her rapes her and that's what's being reported here.
Singer Melanie Martinez has been accused, again, that's allegedly going on here, of rape by former colleague.
Suggesting that me too, reckoning is also coming for female predators in the entertainment industry.
Musician Timothy Heller accused Martinez of raping a tweet on Tuesday morning in which included a detailed story, and it's a woman that goes by Timothy Heller, about how the abuse began and the unspecified date.
And kept hitting on her, kept grabbing on her, and then finally raped her, reportedly.
Now, who knows if that's true or not? You know, if I question it, now I can don't rape.
No, I mean, about half the rape allegations you hear out there end up to be fake. That's well known in criminology as well.
Does it lessen the real rape? No, but it turned out the whole lacrosse thing, raping the black lady was fake.
It's just, this is how people get attention. I'm not saying this isn't real, because it kind of fits the whole MO, but we don't know.
I'm just getting at the fact that that story is up on infowars.com, and the Huffington Post got it right that I talked about people like Harvey Weinstein in Hollywood end up getting women into bondage.
And a lot of times when they finally get them tied up the fourth or fifth time, sometimes they never come back.
And I told you that back before it had come out. He'd raped women, reportedly. I'm not saying he's doing it. I'm saying that type of stuff goes on.
So that was the same thing I broke down. They say, oh, he said a horrible thing about Harvey Weinstein, which wasn't even true.
But at least they got the quote that it was about men, 50 shades of gray stuff, being training for kidnapping women and forgetting women in bad positions.
So look out, men or women, don't go into dungeons with people you think you know even four or five times and then get chained up on the fifth time.
That's what psychopaths do. And a lot of people come up missing because of that.
And movies like 50 Shades of Gray and the accompanying books have popularized a whole new launch of this.
And many women are going on Craigslist and on these other hookup sites and are going and meeting men they don't even know to get tied up.
That's not a good idea. And yes, it's mainly women doing it to men doing it to women.
It's also butch women doing it to men. I'm just giving you the M.O. And it's gay men doing it to gay men.
But the point is you're crazy. If you go into one of these dungeons, you're nuts because it's all about like pedophilia.
First, they want to make contact with your kid that they want to test him and touch him a little. So if the kid reports that they can deny it, it's a feeder into a very dark, evil, twisted underworld.
It's very, very satanic. And you don't want to get involved in it young people or anybody else.
Okay. And I mean, I remember like 15 years ago, my family has a long time gay friend that I've known since I was a kid.
He died a few years ago and he was a newspaper reporter, stuff like that.
And I heard, you know, when he got into a bunch of stuff before he died, you know, this whole wild scene or whatever.
And he was an older guy that he was going to stuff like this and got hurt.
So the point is, ladies and gentlemen, this is real stuff and this whole bondage thing isn't cute.
It isn't funny and Hollywood sells you. It's sexy and it's cool.
You've got 13-year-old girls reading stuff like 50 Shades of Grey. It's a load of garbage.
All of it is hateful and bad and leads into a very, very evil place.
Anything beyond, if your wife likes you slap her on the rear a couple of times, I think anything beyond that is evil and it's bad.
And I'm just warning you and I'm done. They'll say that's an anti-lesbian thing because they want you to stay in it.
They want fresh meat. They want to hurt you. The whole globalist satanic combine.
So you've been warned. You've been warned. Now, I'm going to stop right there.
Ladies and gentlemen, we need financial support. We're the tip of the spear.
You just heard William Benny. That is super exclusive.
Destroying the entire Russia deal. It was a setup. They have the total proof.
We're bringing you a guy first years ago who the president has go meet with the CIA director.
I mean, we're bringing you the hardcore folks. We got free shipping on a lot of items, not store-wide.
50% off on the high quality fluoride free toothpaste with Coital Silver and iodine.
Super blue, amazing. And the mouthwash for adults and children.
We have DNA force, 33% off back in stock.
And we have a lot of other stuff and we have a new website that I haven't even told you about.
When I come back, I'll briefly tell you about before we hand the baton to Paul Joseph Watson.
If you want to commit and get high quality, great products that have changed my life with so many others,
infowarslife.com, infowarsstore.com.
And we have 50% off on vitamin mineral fusion fruit punch as well.
Go to yourself, your family to get these high quality products.
Introducing Fluorolife, the new probiotic line developed exclusively by InfoWarsLife.
After years of research on the human microbiome, not all probiotics are made the same.
Fluorolife probiotics use a unique targeted delivery system that bypasses the stomach
and releases directly into the intestines for maximum effect.
This is critical because stomach acid kills most probiotics.
So if you don't have a targeted delivery probiotic, then you're cheating your gut health and your wallet.
Fluorolife supports your body's core, where you need it most, including digestion, regularity, immunity, the gut lining and metabolism.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Fluorolife is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care,
and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to infowarslife.com to pick up your bottle of Fluorolife probiotics today.
That's infowarslife.com.
Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers
that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarsstore.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Big Brother, mainstream media, government cover-ups.
You want to stop tyranny? Well so does he.
Live from the infowars.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
I'm going to open the phones up at the bottom of the hour.
And I want to specifically ask you the listeners.
We're starting to really turn the tide and have some big victories of nationalism,
of productivity, of prosperity for the average person, the cornucopia, the free market.
The globalists don't like that obviously. How are they going to counter-strike?
What do you expect them to do, claiming Trump's involved in a coup, so they've got to remove him?
See, that's what they're doing, but they turn it around, so when they engage in it,
they claim they're stopping a dictator when there's no evidence of that.
What do you think they're going to pull? What do you think they've got up their sleeve?
What have they got in their back pocket? What's the race in the hole?
A toll-free number to join us, 877-8789. Alex, 877-8789. 2-5-39.
Long-time callers, first-time callers. I want to hear from you specifically on that subject
and the historic tax cuts. What do you think of them?
And there's over 30 big things it does. It's just dizzying.
Is Trump not real? He does some things I don't like, but he really is the president.
He really is returning power back to our nation. It really is a big deal.
And we've got so many other big stories we're going to cover in the next segment.
First, I want to play this piece here.
DIMMS lead delusional uprising over possible Mueller firing.
Just voices of blind hypocrisy.
You want Americans to know that we should ignore all of the overwhelming evidence
of a fabricated witch hunt against President Trump.
Instead, join them in their flabbergasted disgust
that anyone would even consider ending Special Counsel Robert Mueller's
investigation of Russia White House collusion fiction.
Mr. President, I rise today concerned about the threats
to the Special Counsel's critical investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election.
Over the last several weeks, a growing chorus of irresponsible and reckless voices
have called for President Trump to shut down Special Counsel Mueller's investigation.
At first, these calls came from the fringes of our political discourse.
Those who would refuse to put our country and our security before base political instincts.
None of this is true.
Earlier this year, many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle were right to push back
and urge that Special Counsel be allowed to do his job without interference.
Yeah, that means letting him violate the law, letting him do it every once.
Don't talk back to him. He's God.
Seemed to be growing in stridency and involvement.
What's growing is he's discredited. He's been caught right handed.
One major news organization suggested that Special Counsel Mueller could be involved
in a coup against the President.
One senior advisor at the White House has now outrageously alleged that the fix was in
against Donald Trump from the beginning.
I said through a Judiciary Committee hearing that I thought was disgraceful with members
on the other side of the aisle trying to smear not only FBI Director Christopher Wray,
but also...
I mean, we can beat these guys. These are whips.
Trying to play dictator.
These are good people.
You're not going to stop our prosperity.
You're not running our lives anymore.
You're not getting our guns, Phil.
The woman's march was large.
Wait to see what happens if the President actually tries to take these unconstitutional
and what would really amount to criminal actions because he would be obstructing justice.
But ever since he whipped up Chance of Locker Up in the 2016 campaign...
Where did that come from?
Donald Trump has displayed complete ignorance of the difference between a constitutional
democracy and a banana republic.
A complete ignorance of the role of judges.
Yeah, they want to kill Trump, lock him up for no reason.
We just say, Hillary for President, lock her up, and then we're the bad guys.
For us, they inhabit a world of law, facts, and evidence.
Oh, yeah, Mueller does.
They prosecute the President's personal...
Where? In fantasy land?
Where prosecute his enemies, real war...
Or in a magical kingdom, like in your hair?
What's that Dr. Seuss book where they live in somebody's hair?
It's a whole universe?
Someone, please show me a Democrat, not politicizing every aspect of...
Good job, John Bowne.
With a powerful antioxidant blend, clinically studied to support and accelerate your body's
natural defenses against harmful toxins.
It's in your DNA.
Go to InfoWarsLife.com right now and check out the reviews for yourself.
And now, just in time for Christmas, we are offering DNA force at 33% off.
So take advantage of this incredible deal.
Get a bottle of DNA force today at InfoWarsLife.com or call 1-888-253-3139.
Yeah!
Coming up at the bottom of the hour, maybe even sooner, I'm going to take your phone
calls on Trump's first year.
Does he hit the ground running as President-elect?
So I'd say it's about a year now, even though January 20th when he got in officially
November 8th is when he got, became President-elect.
But he hit the ground running.
So I'd say right about now, Trump has been president for a year.
So he did hit the ground running.
He understood Thomas of the Essence.
He couldn't let the economy stall out.
First thing he did, for even God, his government organized, was make thousands
of phone calls telling corporations he was going to cut taxes and please invest
in America or the whole thing's going to go belly up.
Then he called and thanked people politically for what they'd done, myself
and others, thousands, thousands.
He's a tight-ness workhorse.
And then he called world leaders and people and tried to talk into them
and doing diplomatic stuff.
And that's all on record what the president did.
First, stabilize the economy, emergency, emergency, emergency.
Then thank the people that helped.
Then start dealing with the rest of the world.
But first, stabilize the ship.
America first, America first, America first, America first.
And now a year later, Trump's been in a year now.
And this is a fair time to average all the stuff he did as president-elect
with when he officially became president.
Been a president a year.
And how has he done?
What do you think about the situation?
What are the pluses?
What are the minuses?
But just remember, he's not God.
He can't get it all done.
I'm surprised how much he's gotten done.
It's been miraculous.
And they said he'd never get the tax cuts through on and on and on.
And they played all the race games.
There's new statistics out.
And it's not that Hispanics that make up something like 70% of immigrants
come to the country are inherently criminal.
It's that there is a contingent already fleeing justice,
like Americans flee to Mexico and vice versa,
that don't have real names, have fake IDs that the Mexican consulate will give them.
All these corrupt state governments and local governments will give them IDs.
And they are just above the law.
And they mainly feed, if you look at the statistics on other Hispanics.
So, I'm going to go some new statistics in a moment with Tucker Carlson
breaking that down, but Jorge Ramos.
I mean, I can't go to Mexico and then go have a baby for free
and have it taken care of.
They'd laugh at me.
I can't go to Mexico and just do whatever I want,
especially if I'm not working.
Mexico gets illegal aliens from Latin America
and gives them six months to a year hard labor and tortures them.
That's the one in Guardian.
And I'm not defending that.
The point is acting like America is the worst thing on Earth, is not true.
And then the Democrats try to turn Hispanics particularly into a new racial group
and make it race-based politics.
And that's failing.
And that's good news for everybody.
So, Jorge Ramos says he's now having the worst time of his life in the U.S.
With Donald Trump there, I have never been treated so badly.
I've never been insulted so much.
We've never been attacked so much.
They have never tried to run us out as much as now.
Ramos vented in an interview with the Spanish radio network.
Ramos, who proclaimed himself as not the enemy,
but an opponent of Trump in the interview,
complained about the massive blowback he's received since deciding to use his media platform
to openly oppose the choice over 62 million Americans who voted last year's election.
Then he complains about social networks.
The social networks are 10 to 1 against libertarians, nationalists, and conservatives.
But we know most of them are bots.
We know it's fake.
So we don't care if we get ridiculed.
We keep hammering back.
But everybody knows the Democrats, the globalists, the liberals are way more threatening,
way more hateful, constantly calling for violence.
And then when Kate Stanley gets shot in the back and the virtue signaling mainly white jury
lets the guy who'd been deported, what, five times and committed all these crimes,
lets him go, not even manslaughter, not even accidental,
because they couldn't signal that it was wrong to shoot her in the back.
What about Kate?
The crimes were put up at the university there in San Francisco and folks pulled them down
and said this is racist.
All it said was she had dreams too.
Like she's a human too.
She has rights too.
But then Nancy Pelosi virtue signals and says illegal migrants embody the best of our nation.
Not migrants, not people coming here to work, not people coming here to be Americans,
but migrants, which means illegals.
Illegal migrants, quote, embody the best of our nation, says the leader of the Democrats
and the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi.
The flattery of illegals came December 21st as Pelosi urged the House Committee on rules
to include an amnesty for 3.25 million dreamer illegals in two-week budget resolution.
The problem is most of those folks are 40 years old with fake names.
They're not really dreamers.
It's kind of like the Islamists, where you got 30-year-old and 25-year-old men in Dutch,
Swiss, I mean, Dutch, Swedish, and German schools, because they say they're 16.
And then she goes on to say they embody the best of our nation's patriotism, hard work,
perseverance, Pelosi said of the dreamers.
She added that Congress shouldn't leave them to celebrate the holidays in fear.
Oh, really?
What about Kate Stanley?
Meanwhile, so it was terrorism.
An attacker who rammed his car into victims upset at mistreatment of Muslims.
And, of course, you've had hundreds of these attacks the last few years in Russia, Europe,
here, all over.
And most of the time, they'll never even say it's Islamist.
In fact, in Sweden and in other areas, they won't release the name.
They've passed laws and regulations saying it's racist if the guy's name is Habib or
Hamaman or Ahmed or whatever.
It's just incredible.
So that story's up on newswars.com and prisonplanet.com from Paul Joseph Watson.
Please hear it out to everybody.
Meanwhile, Morris, he comes out more with a classical liberal and says, fake news media,
get angry if you say something that reflects the will of Europe.
Yeah, they're saying it's racist and want to have vetted people coming into the country
when all the globalists are doing is openly erasing people's cultures.
Now, let's go to the Tucker Carlson piece where they break down these statistics,
never before seen statistics proving legal aliens commit massively this proportionate amount of crime.
See, we've got brand new numbers, striking numbers that have never been seen before,
and they may reshape how you think about illegal immigration.
So you've heard the same line a million times.
It's repeated like a mantra by the left during every debate on the subject.
All immigrants are hardworking and law abiding.
They do jobs you wouldn't consider doing, and they do them cheerfully.
They sacrifice for their families in ways you probably don't.
In fact, and this is always the last point, it's always delivered with the confidence, satisfaction
of someone shutting down a debate with superior data,
undocumented immigrants actually commit fewer crimes on average than native-born Americans.
Not only are immigrants more virtuous than you are, but they're safer to be around.
In other words, stop complaining, they're your superiors.
But wait, are we sure that that is true?
Are people who are in this country precisely because they were willing to break our immigration laws
really less likely to break other kinds of laws?
It doesn't make a lot of sense.
Yet until today, strangely enough, no one could say for sure whether it was true,
because reliable statistics didn't seem to exist.
Our government tracks pretty much every trend and every phenomenon you can think of
from how many pounds of pistachio nuts are recalled every year
to how many fifth graders are injured on swing sets,
kind of people die in bathtubs.
This is a nation of record keepers.
We're overseen by an army of spreadsheet-wielding bureaucrats.
Numbers control our lives, except on this subject.
Somehow, the government went for years without honestly trying to track the volume of crime
committed by illegal immigrants in this country.
Maybe they were too incompetent to do it.
More likely they didn't want you to know the answer or to think about it even.
In any case, we now for the first time have the actual numbers and here they are.
According to statistics from the U.S. Sentencing Commission,
non-citizens are actually far more likely to commit serious crimes than Americans are.
Non-citizens account for 22% more than a fifth of all federal murder convictions.
You know what, let's stop right here. Let's back this up about 30 seconds.
I'm going to come back and break this down.
And the reason I knew this was the statistics were already there.
Hispanic immigrants on average have a low crime rate,
but there is a minority subgroup of hardened criminals
that commit hugely disproportionate amounts of crime because they can't be tracked.
That's why you have this anomaly.
Well, explain it on the other side.
Both sides of this are actually true.
Stay with us.
If you or someone you care about loves outdoor adventure,
then check out slingbow.com for some unique holiday gift ideas.
That's slingbow.com where we have some innovative new products for the archer,
hunter or bow fishing enthusiast in your family.
Now through January, use the promo code holiday to get free shipping in the U.S. or Canada.
And from all of us at Slingbow Industries,
have a safe, joyous and peaceful holiday season.
This holiday season with affordable leather ID stronghold wallets and purses.
Anyone can buy a cheap RFID scanner online and snag your information just by walking past you.
Contactless credit cards, debit cards, even your work ID bag.
ID stronghold was the first to pioneer RFID blocking technology over 12 years ago.
Secure your identity and save 10% by using coupon code present for a limited time at idstronghold.com.
That's coupon code present also available at Walmart.com, eBay, Amazon or QVC.
ID stronghold.com.
Not a group you develop living defense for us. It took you over a year to do it. Why is this so good?
Because people are actually waking up to the problem that pretty much scares me the most.
I mean, I try to make sure that I don't put toxins from food and water and beverages in my system.
But right now we're dealing with massive parasites, which is anything that's harmful to your body
that lives off a host mechanism right now with all the refugees spreading disease around.
We have biological warfare going on everywhere. These are all parasites.
Tell us about all the stuff that says there's so many things that are in it.
You have the neem in there. You have the organic clove bud, the organic wormwood.
I recommend doing a parasite cleanse at least twice a year.
All right. Well, I'm glad we've got some back in because I'm going back on it today.
It just came back in yesterday. Living defense, infowarslife.com.
And folks, you can't lose. It's full of stuff that's great for your body, period.
And you support the broadcast, infowarslife.com. Thank you, Dr. Group, from the Global Healing Center.
Thank you so much for all your work, sir, on this great product.
You can eat protein-heavy foods now while minimizing the later indigestion
and discomfort commonly associated with high meat diets.
Just one pill with every high protein meal helps increase the bioavailability
and absorption of amino acids, the building blocks to your muscles.
Cardivore also contains digestive enzymes to help digest fats and carbohydrates
so you can fully digest all types of meals.
Don't let a meal go to waste. Use carnivore by infowarslife.
Head to infowarslife.com and secure your bottle now.
That's infowarslife.com.
You're listening to the Alex Jones Show.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us. I'm your host, Alex Jones, coming up in the next segment, your phone calls.
So continuing here. I'm a newshound. I've been a newshound for 25 years. I've been on there for 22 years.
And so I actually look at the statistics and I talk to law enforcement and I check into it.
And so that's why I've understood that statistically, immigrants to this country from all over the world
come here because they want to work, they want to be successful.
Now, more and more, though, you have people coming here to have anchor babies.
So that's now not people from Mexico. That used to be the biggest group. It's now Chinese women.
Thousands and thousands a week come here, middle-class Chinese women, to have their baby for free.
Then the baby becomes a U.S. citizen and now they have a toehold here in the U.S.
We shouldn't have to pay for that.
So again, we know the statistics piece by piece and on average, the cliche that Hispanic workers out of Mexico
wherever coming off farms down there, like farm boys used to come off farms here in the 50s and 60s,
they have just been third world. They haven't been industrialized yet, so they're behind.
Just like my grandfathers were good, hardworking guys that came off the farm.
And nowadays, people aren't as tough or strong or hardworking as their grandfathers.
We've gotten decadent in America. So the cliche is true.
Farm boys coming off a farm in Mexico are going to get the job done
and usually aren't criminals and they're more country boy than most guys in Texas.
That's where cowboy hats and boots came from Spain and were then developed in Mexico and Chile.
But there is a narco-terrorist culture and a gang culture and a drug culture in Latin America
that is a minority, but particularly vicious, that creates a disproportionate amount of crime.
And that's true. Just like black on black crime is stratospheric.
These are demographic things that go on and are facts.
So yes, the average Hispanic person isn't some foaming at the mouth criminal,
but there are criminal gangs coming in and criminal groups and mentally ill people and serial killers
like the railway killer that killed, they think, 40-something people
and he had all these different names and stuff. It's dangerous and it's crazy.
I mean, one of these crazy guys shoots a woman in the back.
The liberal jury won't even do anything about it.
And that's the issue. That's what's wrong with this is that there's this thing where they're making people above the law
and the argument is, well, people from Latin America already won't call the police.
They're already scared of the system and they're scared of repercussions and that's true
because in those countries, if you do report on the criminal gangs, they'll kill you.
And that's where the real statistics are.
It's much higher than even the statistics show because Hispanics on average report crime
or the lowest levels out there. You can look it up.
And so a lot of people just get disappeared.
And by the way, who mainly gets disappeared?
Who do gangs usually target mainly?
Their own group.
The worst thing for Hispanics in America are these undocumented criminal gangs
and they'll tell you that.
But you go see a Robert Rodriguez movie.
It's Redneck's cowboy hat shooting pregnant Mexicans in the stomach.
Let me tell you who's raping and killing Mexicans.
It's the drug cartels and they've dug up hundreds of thousands, over 100,000 people
and almost all of them got killed by those satanic drug gangs.
That's the facts, Robert Rodriguez.
You are a Mexican supremacist racist.
But you're not actually helping your people.
You're not a real supremacist.
You're not telling them don't take Gardasil or whatever.
You're sitting there telling them the gringos killing them.
When the average gringo is a self-loving, guilty wimp and I'm sick of it.
Your problem is not your local gringo.
Your problem is the globalist.
And your problem is Carlos Slim.
And your problem is the big mega combines that are controlling the society
and attacking our families and everybody.
And your enemy is the abortuaries that are working as hard as they can to abort your kids.
Am I the leftist trying to get the Hispanic kids aborted?
Hell no.
Am I trying to get the black kids aborted?
No. Even though they're getting turned into weapons against me by the brainwashing machine,
I'm chivalrous and I will not go to that level.
But the real enemy is the globalist.
That's all of our enemy.
And Trump is bringing back prosperity for everybody if we want it.
Now, let's go ahead and play the rest here with Tucker Carlson.
And then I'm going to go to break and I'm going to come back and go to your calls.
But I've got to get some really sickening news that just went live on infowars.com with Kit Daniels.
It is so incredible.
But I'm not going to tell you about it to the next segment.
Let's finish up with Tucker Carlson and the statistics.
And it's worse than this.
It's way worse than this.
I mean, my God, the unmarked graves are digging up 90% of the time.
There is a Hispanic woman, her kids in the grave.
And it's because somebody back home didn't pay off and it's sick.
And they're treated like animals by the criminal class in Mexico.
And I'm sick of it.
That's why everybody should be armed in Mexico.
They should have their own second amendment.
They should have their own reformation and turn this around.
Let's go ahead and go to this clip.
We now for the first time have the actual numbers.
And here they are.
According to statistics from the U.S. Sentencing Commission,
noncitizens are actually far more likely to commit serious crimes than Americans are.
Noncitizens account for 22% more than a fifth of all federal murder convictions,
18% of fraud convictions, 33% of money laundering convictions,
29% of drug trafficking convictions,
and 72% of convictions for drug possession.
Meanwhile, the noncitizen percentage of the American population, about 7%.
So that is a massively disproportionate amount of crime.
Not even close.
No, immigrants are not more law-abiding and less dangerous than Americans.
That's totally untrue.
Indeed, it's the opposite of the truth.
Noncitizens are more likely to be arrested, convicted, and imprisoned for serious crimes
than people who were born here, much more likely.
So why didn't we know this until now?
Why have so many people been lying to us about this for so long?
That's a question we plan to ask a whole bunch of people.
All right, very powerful information, extremely powerful.
We're going to go to break, come back with us, get Daniel's news that Daria brought to my attention.
And then I'm going to go to your phone calls for the entire balance of the transmission today.
On this Friday edition, we're going to take hours and hours of phone calls right into the fourth hour.
We've got Zach and Morocco, who we'll go to first, our military source,
almost happening militarily around the world.
Again, a source known to us, a big news breaking source.
And I've got the other article Marine Corps General says we're about to have a big war.
And I know it's in the stack, guys, we just reprint it for me.
Thank you.
So that's coming up just briefly.
I want to thank the listeners for all they've done making this broadcast possible.
Without you, we wouldn't be here and you've done it again.
This December was better than last December for our funding.
Not a lot bigger, but the fact that almost everybody else is contracted because last year was an election year.
But that we have expanded despite all the censorship, all the attacks, getting our sponsors, kicking us off Google ads.
Despite all that, in 2017, we have now brought in more capital than we did in 2016.
I salute you all and I thank you.
And we just crossed that line a few days ago.
So I will be able to hopefully expand and hire another five, six reporters, more editors, more video people,
finish out the new studio, buy more satellite time on TV and reach out to UHF, VHF and Cable
for the big expansion this year into a terrestrial television because of all the censorship we're facing on the Internet.
So I salute you and despite all the attacks, thank you for the prayers.
We made it through it so far by the grace of our Heavenly Father and His Son Jesus Christ.
So again, all the praise goes to Christ and all the thanks goes again to God.
And I just want to ask you all to commit to help fortify and help us move forward. Infowarsstore.com still 50% off.
Some areas of the U.S. will still get it before Christmas.
But give yourself the gift of high quality fluoride free toothpaste.
Give yourself the gift of Myco ZX out for over six months.
Now back in stock 25% off.
A next level probiotic that gets the fungus, the mold, the yeast and destroys its slime wall it creates to steal your nutrients.
It's very important. Most people have this problem.
Get your Myco ZX back in stock. Infowarsstore.com or AAA-253-3139.
Thank you all. You have beat the enemy. You have crushed them. Your will has crushed the enemy.
It's a no-brainer. A Big Berkey water filter is the one you need, period.
You need a water filter that removes chlorine, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, BPA and other endocrine disruptors,
pesticides, bacteria, viruses and much more, right?
And does it all at only two cents per gallon.
The original, most trusted name in gravity water filtration, Big Berkey. And now GCN listeners receive 5% off ceramic filter systems using code GCN.
Call or click 1-877-99-Berkey or BigBerkeyWaterFilters.com. That's 1-877-99-B-E-R-K-E-Y.
This is Dan Pillon. Do you owe the IRS money you can't pay? Are tax debts crippling you?
I've defended people from the IRS for over 30 years. I've helped thousands and I can help you too.
I wrote the book on IRS settlement and I'm telling you, there's no such thing as a hopeless case.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX to finally get free of IRS debt.
With the IRS's new programs, there's never been a better time to solve your problem.
Call 800-34-NO-TAX. That's 800-34-NO-TAX or my website, danpillon.com.
Low energy, low sex drive and muscle loss. Alpha Power is packed with some of the most potent and clinically tested ingredients on the market.
The secret is in the synergistic blend of ancient ingredients that have been concentrated into their most potent forms including
uricoma longifolia, originally from Malaysia, makaroo from Peru, horny goatweed from China and tribulus from India.
Reach your alpha male potential with Alpha Power. Get Alpha Power now at 50% off and secure your bottle today.
Top scientists and researchers agree we are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it? Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged
Brain Force Plus and feel the rush without the crash. Brain Force Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called black pepper fruit extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. Brain Force Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Proper B vitamin intake is essential to keep the body functioning at optimum levels.
With our modern diets, it can be hard to get the recommended amount of B vitamins we need every day.
Secret 12 combines two bioactive forms of vitamin B12 for optimal absorption. Being deficient in B vitamins can cause fatigue, depression, poor memory and lethargy.
Secret 12. B vitamins help the body convert food into energy by supporting your intercellular processes.
B vitamins are also essential for the optimal functioning of the brain and nervous system.
Secret 12 is an easy way to increase your vitamin B12 intake.
Head to infowarslife.com and support optimal brain and body functioning with Secret 12. That's infowarslife.com.
It's Alex Jones coming to you now from the front lines of the Infowar.
We are the resistors to the globalists and their worldwide corporate tyranny.
And we are well on our way to restoring our republic with our prosperity, our bill of rights, our constitution and so much more.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am your host Alex Jones. Infowars.com and newswars.com are the main sites.
We're going to be talking to Zach in Morocco, who's a great military source for us about big breaking news in a moment.
And then I will go to your calls.
And then we'll break down the big article in the Army Times with the top Marine general saying war is basically imminent.
Top Marine general, there's a war coming.
So that's also in the Hill. It's also in the Army Times. You name it, it is. It is big news.
Ladies and gentlemen, that is where all this is going.
So as great as I think Trump is and as much as I like what's happening, I do not like the direction we're going on this front.
So we'll be talking about that with Zach and others coming up.
First off, ladies and gentlemen, every time I cover these issues, the media comes out and misrepresents what I've said.
I don't want heterosexual. I don't want homosexual. I don't want anything sexual being taught to children.
They want to have health class, you know, in the seventh, eighth grade and teach them about the mechanics, the body, fine.
But parents that didn't want that decade to go knew where the sexualization of children angle was leading.
Give them a textbook, whatever, but don't sit there and have the system getting involved in the reproductive system of our children.
The state's always been obsessed with this as a tool of social control.
And last week I covered Discovery Channel, History Channel and other shows about this new big trend of hundreds of new acronyms,
new sexual designations and so many things. I said it's PQLGL39QX59QLPLZ.
I mean, there's people having sex with their automobiles now and appliances and that's a huge new fetish thing that's growing on TV, I've seen.
It's all being pushed to break up the family. The globalists admit that.
I mean, it's a fact. It doesn't even judging people as long as they're consenting adults.
This is an admitted program and the estrogen mimicers and all of it.
And the social engineers don't want to have a real debate about this.
So we didn't see things put out by Disney like feminist baby that says you can be a boy or a girl.
And then it's got a weird image of the baby naked when you first open it up.
I mean, it's all this sexualization of children that's sold in Target.
And then Camille Paglia, who's a classical liberal and a lesbian came out and points out that transgender propagandists are committing child abuse.
I mean, they're going into five-year-olds and telling them, you're not really a boy. You're not really a girl.
Absolutely. And kids think it's like playtime, like playing there are firemen or playing there, you know, a police person or whatever.
And then they go, here, now, here's your fake genitals. Wear this, you're now a boy or you're now a girl.
Let's dress a boy as a girl and teach him how to tuck it between his legs and let's teach a girl she's a boy.
So the article is up on infowars.com.
Little transgender shop sells fake genitals for little girls.
Stand-to-pea genitals, the P word, designed for ages 8 to 13, store proudly declares.
I won't even say the name because YouTube will use it to age restrict it so I can't warn people if I say what they're going to teach three-year-olds.
You understand? I can't say to you on top radio or on YouTube what they're doing to children because it might hurt children, but they're doing it to children.
The mother of a young transgender is selling fake genitals for little girls.
Fake Johnson's, her website, transkids.biz, offers products ranging from tiny silicone male genitals in circumcised and uncircumcised models, genitals, packholders,
so little cars, little dolls, you have a little packholder, and transgender books for kids.
A girl like any other. Backwards day, teaching you to be a girl.
Princess of great darling.
Transkids is run by Sarah, who also runs a site for trans guys called FT, I can't even pronounce this,
says the About Us page featuring a pink-haired proprietor after years of helping adults find high-quality gender expression gear.
She saw the need for a site and a store that focused more on kids and their unique needs.
Yeah, it's kind of like, I owned a liquor store and sold to adults at 21, but now I'm going to sell liquor directly to kids.
If you want to sell this to adults, lady, knock yourself out. Stay away from kids. Stay away.
Sarah is also the parent, this is what Camille Paglia talks about, do you imagine?
Is also the parent of a young transgender girl, so she has a son that she's taught to be a boy.
Or she's got a son, she's taught to be a girl. How can you believe this?
Sarah is also the parent of a young transgender girl, so she hopes, you're not supposed to use the word girl.
Oh, but see, they define what words you're going to use, they can use it.
Sarah is also the parent of a young transgender girl, so she hopes that all parents coming here can trust this is a safe and affirming place.
We're helping your kids live fully is our main goal.
The fake gel genitals are designed for ages 8 to 13, according to their product page.
This is the smallest stand-to-pea device that we have seen.
It states, designed especially for younger folks 8 to 13 years old.
These are discreet enough that they can be worn all day under the clothes.
If your child was assigned female at birth that wants to stand up while urinating, this just might work great for them.
And then we've got the images of it. I mean, this is the bizarre perversion, the weirdness, the mass mental illness.
Just like all over the UK and the US, they're now paying to have their eyes removed or drain out poured in their eyes,
and the taxpayers will pay for you to be blind because you identify as a blind person.
That's mental illness.
People are now identifying as dogs.
The store underscores how young children are increasingly being pressured to reconsider their gender identity,
which critics have blasted as a form of child abuse.
And then that's Camille Paglia talking about it.
But there's another factor at play. Estrogen mimickers and household goods in grocery stores and groceries,
especially between LA in plastics and atrazine as well as foods, highly processed with soy ingredients,
both of which are said to contribute to the low testosterone soy boy pandemic.
Bisphenol A, BPA in particular, is known as a gender-bending chemical because of its link to male impotence and low sperm counts.
Yeah, me and my son were driving to work this morning because he's off because of Christmas.
And I saw one of those little mini cars and the British one, I forget the name.
And it had a pink license plate and said, resist. And I said, wait, it's going to be a soy boy.
We drove by, the guy looked like a concentration camp victim.
And every time you see it, I mean, they are just totally leaderless.
They have no idea they're totally confused.
They just glom onto media, glom onto the bots that tell them have a pink license plate, you know, drive the little mini car.
And again, if one person was doing it or 10 people or a thousand, it's a cult.
Estrogen members increased estrogen activity in young men, leading to social anxiety and bitch tits.
That's what medically called. So it's really not surprising that there's a generation of celibate hipsters running around in skinny jeans
who were scared to death of the first of fistfights and women.
Yeah, that's it. And it's been done.
So there's the website Trans Kids. And this is what's being pushed in the schools.
It's what's being pushed with the sexualization, with drag queens at the schools and kids pole dancing and giving drag queens money.
I mean, you wouldn't have a heterosexual, a woman in there pole dancing and three-year-olds and five-year-olds handing them cash.
That's for topless bars. Stop sexualizing children. Stop doing it.
It's child abuse, just like Camille Pagli has said.
And it's all about the sexualization of children.
It's an agenda of Hollywood and the globalist.
And it's meant to break up our families and make us leaderless and absolutely in the male and the female,
biologically, under the THX1138 Brave New World program of UNESCO in the U.N.,
which is documented, admitted, look up at Resine, look at all of yourself.
We're going to go to break and come back with Zach in Morocco with his latest information.
And then all of your phone calls through this hour, right into the next.
Speak out. Say no to this. Be aware of it.
Understand the parents doing this to young children, in my view, are abusing them.
This is abusive. It's bizarre. It's sick.
We'll be right back. Stop experimenting on your children.
But after all, we're all in a big experiment right now.
Under globalists.
We're under chemical, biological, cultural, and spiritual attack.
Like up to this, we will win.
Annotation.
Did you know that over 80% of your immune system is located in your gut?
That's why increasing gut probiotic levels is so important for overall health.
Floor life is sold as a 15 billion probiotic for everyday maintenance care
and a 50 billion probiotic for a 30 day advanced gut restoration program.
Head to InfowarsLife.com to pick up your bottle of Floor Life probiotics today.
That's InfowarsLife.com.
Choose to take control of your chemistry with Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium.
This powerful combo is perfect for supporting your thyroid and health.
Biotru Selenium's formula is far from synthetic and is made from a source of 100% organic mustard seed.
Our super high quality nascent iodine is an essential mineral sourced of 99.99% ultra pure deep earth iodine crystals.
This essential mineral is necessary in order to produce thyroid hormones which influence every cell, tissue and organ in the body.
With inadequate thyroid hormones you may experience slow metabolism, lethargy, weight gain and overall brain fog.
Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium work together to support the systems in your body.
Take control of your chemistry today with this super combo.
Discover the power of Survival Shield X2 and Biotru Selenium at InfowarsLife.com.
Mike in Arizona here on the air worldwide, go ahead.
Oh, Alex, you can rent any day of the week. Thank you, sir, for doing what you do and being a patriot and doing your best to save America and encouraging us as fellow patriots to do that in our local areas as well.
And as a longtime Infowars listener, I want to say thanks for the awesome BrainForce Anthroplex.
My girlfriend would like to say thanks for the Anthroplex too.
I use the Biotru Selenium, the super blue toothpaste for you folks who aren't big normal toothpaste fans. The super blue is awesome.
And thank you so much, Alex, for the InfowarsLife products. They are quality. I can't wait to get some more.
And thank you so much for doing that for us to keep us healthy.
Absolutely.
Because then we could all, as educated patriots, help our other countrymen and women understand that there's bigger problems going on.
And if we can get our houses in order and be good to each other and ourselves, we can take our country back.
We are being hit by toxic weapons in the food and water supply that are making us fat, sick and stupid.
So what do we do about it?
Well, for starters, don't just sit there and take it. Fight back with the all new supercharged BrainForce Plus and feel the rush without the crash.
BrainForce Plus is the next generation of advanced neural activation and new tropics.
And now we've added a brand new ingredient called Black Pepper Fruit Extract that gives you an added kick.
Other ingredients include vitamin B12 and neurological tonic and cognitive enhancers that will allow you to flip the switch and supercharge your state of mind.
It's the real deal. BrainForce Plus. Secure your bottle right now at infowarstore.com.
Live from the infowarst.com studios, it's Alex Jones.
You mark my words.
YouTube, Facebook and others are either going to take the video down and upload this or say it's age restricted because that's how they keep the public from learning what's going on with the children.
It's all an agenda.
They can go into three and four and five year olds in public schools and tell them, you're a little girl if you're a boy.
You're a boy if you're a little girl. You're a girl if you're a little boy.
And vice versa, as Camille Pagley says, serious child abuse.
But then if we even try to show you what they publicly put on the website, we'll have our website shut down.
So we have it blurred out here.
But notice the little transgender books they're giving the kids and the fake prosthetic genitals for the little girls, they show it in the hand.
Now, again, the hand on the image of the prosthesis of the artificial genital.
And again, that's what's on their actual site, ladies and gentlemen.
And people will say, hey, it's okay to have adults tell little kids about this.
Just don't show adults on YouTube or other children.
Good Lord.
Get it off the screen.
I can't look at it anymore.
And this is how little girls can urinate and the parents can go in and say it's your choice at age four, whether you want to be a boy or girl.
You can't go into a child and say it's your choice if you want to take PCP or drink a bottle of Jack Daniels,
or if you want to take inoculations or if you want to date the next door neighbor.
You're not at the age of consent.
This is abuse, cut and dry.
And Google and Facebook and Twitter are all there pushing it.
And it's not hate of someone that thinks they're another sex.
It's the hate of pushing garbage, whether it's heterosexual, homosexual, whatever it is, on children.
Leave the children alone.
Hey, teacher, leave them kids alone.
Hey, nambla, leave them kids alone.
Because all it all has to be another brick on the wall.
And the rebellion against what you've done is going to be massive.
In generation X, generation Y, generation Z, all the rest of it is humanity awakens.
I'm done ranting. It's just unbelievable.
I saw this this morning as they were writing the article about it.
It upset me the last hour.
I just bit my tongue. I'm so mad.
Leave the kids alone for heaven's sakes.
You freaks. God Almighty.
Heterosexual, homosexual.
It's all called pedophilia when you target kids.
So knock it off.
The whole branding of this and a lot of liberals, they want a social virtue signal with every new thing.
So they're not into this stuff.
They just, okay, Muslims aren't terrorists.
And cutting women's genitals off as liberal and throwing gays off buildings in Islam is good.
And sexualizing small children is good.
And because I'm in a virtue signal, I'm in a virtue signal, I'm in a virtue signal.
Just like me, just like me, just like me.
And you're these alone nobodies.
The leftists always walk up and go boo, boo, boo.
Knock my drink over or whatever.
Everybody hates you. Don't you feel ashamed?
And I just bash like it's the sun.
I go, quite proud of taking America back in the world's next
and we're turning things around and praising the family and free market and Jesus Christ.
How you like that?
And they just go, yeah, I'm not like you.
I'm not like you people.
I'm not an empty person that's off what other people think about me.
I've got something in me.
Understand, in me.
Right here, right here, right here.
Right here. Three spots. Boom, boom, boom.
That's what I go off of feels good there.
It's called a conscience, called my wiring.
I follow that.
My wiring. You haven't got to my wiring yet.
You're trying to get to everybody else's wiring, but you're going to fail.
All right, I'm going to shut up and go to these calls.
I'm loaded up, Phil, Kevin, John, Rich, Deborah, Eugene, Jeff, Lewis, Corey.
We're going to go to all of you.
Thank you for holding. Thank you for calling in.
We're going to get to you on the future of Trump.
All the big promises coming through.
How will the globalist strike back?
New York Times saying that, you know, the coup is going on.
We're going to talk about it all, but Zach in Morocco hasn't given a secret info,
but he's been in army special operations and intelligence.
He's actually known.
He's been in the news.
We know who he is.
He's not ready to go public yet, but he gets through on the line.
We should just call Zach routinely once a week.
Get updates, not just making fighting on the line.
That's my fault should have thought of that.
But Zach over there in Morocco, what do you make of the latest info?
And top Marine general says there's a war coming.
That's in the Hill newspaper.
Yes, Alex, it's great to be back on.
And I just had to connect some dots here.
Everything you laid out is pretty accurate so far,
but I just wanted to connect some dots about the deep state death hurdle
that will commence on the eve of Christmas into the new year
because they are going to go for broke.
With that being said, we need to start out with some key information.
Last time when myself and you were on,
we brought up the HRC, Huma Abedin Barak Hussein connection
that set off some alarm bells and everybody knows what's gone there
and gone on there with the researchers.
Now I'm going to drop some information that will make the snow
and stuff look like snowflakes compared to the avalanche
that I'm about to unleash because the stuff I'm privy to is very important.
And at this point, this is a duty to kind of relay it.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that here.
You know, when it comes to this fast and furious thing,
when it comes to this radical Islamic thing,
let's look at one individual in particular, which we'll bring it all down.
That individual's name is Anwar Awalaki.
The American, the New Mexico-born, Colorado State-educated,
George Washington University-educated, Anwar Awalaki,
the influencer of Major Nadal Hasan at Fort Hood.
That Anwar Awalaki is a major point in this.
This Islamic threat is fabricated.
You know, you have the FBI and you have the NSA
days after the attack at Fort Hood coming out and saying,
wow, he was talking with Anwar Awalaki.
But let me get this straight.
You have this information two to three days after this Fort Hood massacre there.
How would you have that information two to three days later?
Well, later came out that the CIA knew he was talking to him for two years.
Oh, well, not only talking to him.
They've presented Anwar Awalaki as a Yemenese cleric
who is inciting violence with the United States.
No, Anwar Awalaki was born in New Mexico.
Anwar Awalaki was an intellectual.
Anwar Awalaki was educated at the University in Colorado State
and George Washington, George Washington University.
This is critical.
Okay, this is very critical because this was all a setup
and they went too far here and I witnessed it.
So this is all going on while Fast and Furious is going on,
where they're taking weapons from Fort Beliz and El Paso,
moving them across the border into the Kingdom of Morocco,
through the Sahara in Algeria,
eventually making their way to Libya,
where they will defeat Gaddafi's reign there and create ISIS.
So this is deep.
Well, that's what Tosh Plumley, the CIA whistleblower, said here.
Was his info he broke down accurate from what you know?
Yeah, it was pretty accurate, but I was witness to it.
I know exactly what happened there.
And it's not a secret.
People blew the whistle in Morocco in the DST commander in Morocco.
So just to boil it down,
why was Obama arming the Muslim Brotherhood
and arming radical Jihadists to destabilize moderate Muslim states?
Right.
So destabilizing moderate Muslim states
and also creating ISIS to wreak havoc as we see in the world today.
So this is not a blind eye.
This is a black office, the CIA.
This was funded by the highest powers that be,
reigning in our country at the time.
So this is why this is so critical.
I mean, you know, we do have a radical Islamic threat,
but we need to realize where the funding comes from
and who's really involved.
And it's the last and it's the deep state without question.
Absolutely.
That's what the evidence shows.
And it appears Trump is trying to actually cut that off and in that
and make deals actually try to stabilize the Middle East again.
But that McMaster and others are double crossing,
still trying to go back to the old game right under Trump's nose.
It's absolutely unbelievable.
And since the Trump administration has, you know, been in office,
since some of the power positions have changed,
we've seen incredible changes reach around the world.
I'm just saying by firsthand information,
when this information actually comes out,
and I'm kind of hitting at some things without getting into anything very classified,
but you know, fast and furious is ran by our country.
Fast and furious is what created ISIS.
There's just no way around it.
This just wasn't, this just wasn't solved.
This just wasn't enforced.
This was short-filed weapons.
This was artillery.
This was everything.
This was a standing up of ISIS.
Sure.
And that was Obama and the EU and the globalists from all our research
and our sources.
Now you see the info coming out about arming Hezbollah as well.
I mean, why is that suddenly coming out in all places, Politico?
Well, that's coming out.
And also what's coming out is sort of this UFO leaking,
some of this other technology leaking,
because what's essentially coming out is some of our deepest,
I guess, quote-unquote, secrets of what's going on,
because what we're going to see, and you hinted to it earlier as we got on the phone,
there will be a strike on North Korea.
I've been calling you and talking to you about this for six months,
the ending of strategic patience.
There will be an attack there.
And the real issue there is people think about the collateral damage
and what will occur there, but it will be sophisticated.
We want to unleash weapons that we do currently have that have been field-tested,
but will actually be using conventional warfare for the first time.
There will be MP. These will be strategic nuclear weapons.
This will be all of it.
And I did start to call up, I think, on the eve of Christmas.
I'm dubbing it to deep state death hurdle.
They're red-handed.
The information that I just laid out is damning, and this is nothing special.
It's going to come out.
It's going to come out.
Before they said the NSA wasn't spying, comes out they're spying.
Before they said, no, we didn't arm ISIS.
No, you did arm ISIS.
Now the House of Cards is following.
They are desperate.
And is it not Donald Trump for real?
I mean, that's why they're so scared.
Oh, it's for real. This is history in the making.
This is as sensational as it can be.
Stay right there.
Let's come right back and finish up with Zach and all your other calls.
Stay with us for an hour. Please spread the links, folks.
