So I'm talking today with Nina paling who's a brilliant animator and
She's making a variety of short films which I guess are going to be joined together into a longer film
about that that feature Old Testament themes and she's the creator of the animated musical feature Sita sings the blues'
her adventures in our broken copyright system
led her to join questioned copyright or guest artist in residence in
2008 where she produced a series of animated shorts above intellectual freedom called minute memes
More recently she made this land is mine, which is absolutely brilliant
shocking
devastating
and also aesthetically impressive film
About Israel Palestine and Canaan the Levant and that's intended for her new feature film
Seder masochism and you can find a lot of Nina's
pieces of pieces of that film online and I would highly recommend
Watching them. We'll
Cut a couple of them into this interview so that you can see what she's up to
So I guess there's two things that we could really talk about
I think the most important one obviously is your work, but I guess the second one is your
Concern for intellectual freedom and your your feeling with regards to two copyrights
Copying is not that
Stealing a thing leaves one less left copying. It makes one thing more. That's what copies for
Copying is not set
Goodbye, copied yours who have it blue one for me and one for you. That's what copies can do
To take
I just copy it. There's one for each of us. We're making more up a thing
That is what we call copying sharing ideas with everyone. That's why copying is
But let's let's start let's start by talking about you first
Tell tell my listeners and tell me who you are and where you come from and and what you're about
You want to know about my identity I guess yeah, trust me to identify
Myself, I don't trust myself there. Well, okay. You're the best source we have today
actually, I'm
Not sure about that
I mean, I think most of us would agree that I'm an artist and
Currently an animator. I guess I've been doing animation since 1998
Before that I was a newspaper cartoonist. I still do comics from time to time not very often. I
Mean, I guess the thing is I've just been I just came back from a bike ride
And I've just been thinking about identity like all the time and how incredibly unreliable it is and how I don't respect it
including ways that I identify myself
Well, I guess that's part of being an artist, you know, because people who are artistic or high in trade openness
And that gives them a very fluid identity us
I mean, it's an advantage because people who are high in openness can think laterally and they're always coming coming up with creative ideas
But it does tend to make their identity rather pluralistic and and and sometimes unstable and that can also be a problem
Well, I guess I guess it's not even that it's fluid
It's not like oh, I don't identify this way one day in this way another day. It's just I don't really
Currently have much respect for the idea of identity at all
And I could you know, say all kinds of things about myself but you know, does that actually do me any good?
Well, let me ask you a couple of basic questions. Where do you live?
Good. I live in Urbana, Illinois. That's verifiable. All right, and where were you born?
I was born in Urbana, Illinois were so you've been there your whole life, essentially? No I left
I was twenty I moved to Santa Cruz California. I wanted to be a hippie I failed
But then, you know, I was already out on my own so I briefly moved to Austin Texas didn't work out
I moved to San Francisco in 1991. I lived there for 11 years in 2002. I followed my then-boyfriend
Actually, we were legally married. So my then-husband to India
which is the subject one of the subjects of Sita sings the blues' and
Then later in 2002
I moved to Brooklyn New York and lived in various places in New York for a total of about ten years
I moved back to her banner in 2012 right after my father died and
Here I am and so why did you move back to her van and after all that adventuring
First I was done with New York, even though I really loved New York, especially
You know my first five years there. I was fantastic. I kind of
achieved
more than I even expected I would be able to and
started to just get I don't know the love affair with New York kind of wore off and
I wanted a little more peace and quiet and I wanted cooler summers and I didn't want a small garbage everywhere all the time
I had an opportunity to move back here because my dad died. My mom was threatening to sell the house
I joined the Occupy movement
occupy mom's house
Trying to keep her from something the house, but so you actually have a specific demand
She sold the house anyway, but I'm living in her new house. Oh
yeah, I was I was dating somebody that lived here and
That has ended but I actually really like it. It's much more relaxed and
Inexpensive, I get lots of fresh air. I take lots of bike rides and I don't really care about
the
I'm just less stressed out
Yeah, good any less? Yes
Well, you have plenty of adventures obviously
so I guess and it must take a fair bit of I would think time of quiet and and
Some isolation in order to work on your animation
Yeah, well, I achieved that quite an isolation in New York actually by just living in New York and in a by myself
I would rather live in New York than visit New York because when you live there you can actually control
Your environment somewhat and you can shut everything out. Whereas when you're visiting usually have to be out all the time being overstimulated, right?
Yes, well, it's definitely an over stimulating place
Yeah, when did you start doing your animation? I?
Started animating as an adult in 1998 before that
I had done some animation when I was 13 years old using a borrowed super 8 camera and
I just completely stopped because I was in central Illinois and there was no
support for
Doing animation. There was no way I could have advanced beyond the neighbors super 8 camera
But then in 1998, I was burning out of my daily comic strip and
Wanted to do something and borrowed somebody else's super 8 camera and in 1998, it actually was easier
To advance, especially in San Francisco where a lot of people were doing independent film
And yeah, I just stick up where I left off. I did, you know plasticine clay
stuff on super 8 and
shared that film with a band called Nick Phelps and the sprocket ensemble that did live music to animation and
That was really fun. I was being gratified by audience feedback
and so I made another film on 16 millimeter and then my next film was drawing and scratching on 35 millimeter and then
My next film after that was drawing and scratching on
IMAX film which is 70 millimeter really big frames and then I got into flash
Macromedia flash and I've been digital ever since and
Are you using Macromedia flash now?
What's your primary technology a lot of those clips for sadomasochism or animated in Macromedia Flash?
Adobe bought flash and crippled it and ruined it in the opinion of many Flash animators
So I'm still using Macromedia flash from 1990, you know
2007 it's that one my copy of Flash's from iron Macromedia flash 8, it only runs on older computers actually
I think it might be 2006 or 2005 so I have this old
Mac here
running OS 10 point 6 because it won't run on any more recent machines and
You know, it's like impossible to integrate with a
modern video editing system, so I have a new Mac as well and
The newer parts those sadomasochism. I'm using a program called Moho Pro
12 which is
Kept up with runs on modern computers
Yeah, it's funny how sometimes software Peaks in terms of complexity and usability and then goes downhill
You know, I think we're seeing that not just with software but with computers altogether like personal computers, I think peaked
around 2007 maybe 2010 and they've been getting worse ever since like any sort of upgrade to operating systems just means
More surveillance and less user freedom at this point
Yes, as well as a steep learning curve
Yeah
Yeah, anyway, I don't know I don't know if I can keep animating digitally
Because you know like the software that I'm using now Moho I just found out that the person that created it and was an integral
part of its team this whole time just left the company so
You know, mohos fate is unclear and I'm like if I have to learn a whole other piece of software again
I just don't know if I can take this anymore
I mean, I'm so fluent with flash it took me years to become fluent at all. Whoa-ho
well, that's another thing is that I know it takes a long time to become an expert user of a complex software program and then
when it shifts the ground shifts from underneath you it's rather disheartening because all of that expertise is
Essentially disappears and I guess it's part of what we're experiencing as our technology advances
Fast enough so that our lifespans are too long really to keep up. You know, we get we get
outdated and
Superannuated on about a five-year rotation and the dust get exhausting. Yeah. Well, maybe I'll just die early and won't have to worry about
But then you won't film finish your film and that seems like a bad idea
Well, I'm gonna finish this film. I finally see the light at the end of the tunnel for sadomasochism good for you
So let me ask you some about that. So now you made this land is mine. When was that that
Was 2012 I think it was that's the first scene that I made
This love is mine
God gave this line to me
This ray
a nation line
To me
Reveals inflamed
Then I see where children can run free
This one and whoa
I will
Just a mile when you are my son
I know I can like these
Oh just uh
With the house
To make this land
So it's gonna be the last scene in the film
But it's the first one that I made I see and what what possessed you to make that?
so I knew I wanted to make a movie about Passover because I was raised observing Passover, although not much else and
So I was doing research I had never seen the movie Exodus you know that movie
Yeah, I'd never seen it. So I watched it as part of my research and I learned that the theme music
Had lyrics written to it by Pat Boone and that it was a really popular song in the 60s
Tons of artists did it I had never even heard it before
So I heard it and I just thought it was ridiculous, right this land is mine. God gave this land to me
I mean any everyone would say that right? Everybody every group feels that way about the land that they're on every single one
so the absurdity of it was just a parent in the song and
You know
There wasn't even really a process of of coming up with a concept for it
It was just that was what the song evoked for me
It was just showing how every single person or not every single person that every single
tribe
Has that attitude towards their land and so saying that this land is yours and God gave this land to me
gives you no authority at all because
That's every I mean, that's just what it is to be a tribe living on land
So what should what sort of reaction did you garner from? This land is mine
This land is mine is the most popular thing I have ever made. It's been viewed on various channels more than 10 million times
And
You know many people like it in terms of criticism. The criticism seems equally divided between
People that say that I'm a Zionist and people that say I'm an anti Zionist
So it's either a really anti Zionist film or it's a really Zionist film
I see so you can just add that criticism together in sum to zero and ignore it
Yeah, well, I'm really flattered by it. Right because of people that passionately, you know
Polar opposite sides are
Saying that then I feel like I've really done something right? Well, you've definitely done something, right?
I mean, I think that was the first film of yours that I saw and then I've watched many of them
I think every one I could get my hands on since then and
It struck me in a variety of ways. I mean the first thing that's let's say strange about your
Animation is that it's this?
At first of all you have great taste in music
The best
I don't
How's that how's that working out for you? Well, okay in the case of this land is mine
It's pretty clear-cut fair use because the Sun the film is parody
like I said, right, you know it it's literally a parody of those lyrics and you
Know that's various
Okay
I actually think most of my uses are fair use their transformative but a
lot of uses are not as clear-cut as
Parity, so that's actually a really interesting issue
With the film and how is this film going to be released?
And how is it going to be shown?
because there is no no way I am going to ask for permission to use this music particularly music that
Entered my head as a child
Which I did not consent to and I had no control over it or so
Nobody has any control over what goes into your head right like you go out in the world and music is playing it goes into
your head
And yet once it's there
that part of your head that it occupies belongs to a corporation and
I'm just done asking corporations for permission to
Use what's in my head which they put there. Mm-hmm. Okay, so you basically solve the problem by saying to hell with it
I'm gonna do this
I'm gonna do this no matter what and you're gonna iron out whatever difficulties there are with that as you move along
That's what it looks like. It's an illegal film. I mean in the case of Sita sings the blues' I
Made Sita sings the blues' when I was I was certainly questioning copyright
But I didn't really see it as a completely bankrupt institution
so
when that film was done, I
Cleared all the rights which was an incredibly difficult process and required hiring
Intermediaries because the rights holders don't talk to normal people. So if you do make a film and you don't have
Permission to use the music in it. You can't simply ask for permission
They won't talk to you. So you have to pay lawyers and intermediaries
Just for them to even listen to you to tell you how much money they're demanding which is inevitably an absurd amount that you can't
Afford but I ended up spending a mere seventy thousand dollars
To make Sita sings the blues' legal to show for free and legal to share for free
If I you know wanted some other model, it would have been more than that, right
seventy thousand dollars
To be able to give it away
But I'm not doing that with a new film the new film
I'm making an illegal film all of my music choices have to do not with their licenses but with
The content and meaning and resonance of the songs
Most songs have a kind of cultural resonance that is related to the point in time
they were
circulating
For example, this land is mine, you know refers directly to this period of the 60s
Yeah, it has a cultural resonance because of that which a new song if I like commissioned a new song
Sort of like that. It wouldn't have the same meaning at all. No, definitely not songs like that. They pick up
It's really interesting to watch what happens to a song across time because it picks up
It's embedded into context in that context grows and develops and transforms
This dassault a song is really a mutable entity. You know it transforms tremendously as it moves across time
Yeah, and that and that meaning comes from the audience it doesn't come from
Even the person that wrote it let alone the copyright holder right the value of it
Comes from us. Okay. So back to this land is mine
So when I watched that it produced a lot of mixed feelings. I mean the first was that
it was it's very black ly humorous and
You know you have this stirring
propagandistic
Anthem, like music in the background. It's it's sort of overblown
The singer, you know, he he he amplifies the emotional resonance of it. And then you have this just non-stop
carnage in the background to this to this stirring music and then
but what's really strange about it as far as I was concerned is that it's eerily beautiful and
Not something that's it seems to be a perverse and remarkable element of all of your films is that they deal with extremely harsh
Realities
metaphysical and and
Genuine, but you have this amazing capacity to generate these
complex beautiful images and to set them in a you know
and in an equally beautiful relationship to the music and so I mean I
Didn't know what and still don't know what to make of the film because you don't often see
What you might describe is stunningly beautiful satire stunningly beautiful artistic satire. I
Don't know Mad Magazine was pretty stunningly beautiful
Back back it had like the best artists working for it
Yeah, that's true. That's true. But your your there's an element to what you're doing
Especially with the juxtaposition of the music that seems to elevate it in my opinion to something like the level of high art
What high what slow well thank you, I thank you for the compliment. I can't really respond any with anything other than thanking you so
Your aesthetic sense and the style that you developed
Do you do you have sources for that? Do you have influences that helped you helped you?
Develop that particular style. I mean, I know it's a foolish question to ask to artists where they give their ideas
But I'm I'm wondering how it is that you came up with the concepts that you're working with
well
graphically
Some of the style is determined by the software that I use
so this land is mine and all the song scenes and sadomasochism are flash and
Flash the way I use it
It's what we call a cutout style where I'll draw shapes and I'll move them in relation to each other, but the shapes themselves
Don't bend or anything. They're just
cutout is an animation technique where people would literally cut out shapes from paper and
Move them around under a camera
So that's part of the style
With this land is mine in particular
I was looking at ancient Assyrian heart and ancient Egyptian art some of that is reflected
There's like a little border of flowers
Which comes from a Syrian art?
Yeah, those are the main things
Cutout style and the Syrian stuff and you know you you made this land is mine
did you have the
Sadomasochism film in mind or did that emerge afterwards? No
I knew I knew I wanted to make this film about Passover and that's why I watched Exodus and that's how
Sadomasochism. I mean that's how this land is mine came to be
So I I just knew I wanted to do a film about Passover
I didn't know what it was gonna be because I had never read the Old Testament before and
Reading Exodus was of course an eye-opener
And the film I don't I didn't imagine what the film was gonna be
like when I started it other than the
Topic I would work around but the way the film is actually shaping up is a surprise to me
So we should probably walk everyone who's listening through the film itself. So you've created a variety of
What appear at least to be at the moment to be animated shorts that detail out different episodes in in the biblical narrative surrounding?
essentially surrounding Moses there's more to it than that, but certainly surrounding Moses and so yeah does the film
Does the film essentially concentrate
Solely on Exodus are there other elements of Old Testament stories that are you that you're including?
It's really just Exodus but also, you know Leviticus and Deuteronomy
and numbers all
have bits of Exodus
Right, right. So it's basically the story of Moses. It's a story of Moses, right? It's the story of the Exodus and then the
establishment of the
You know the tabernacle and the priesthood and the religion, right?
That's sort of the I mean, it's regarded as the birth of the Jewish people, right?
Right. And so now you said that when you were growing up you observed Passover, but not much else
yeah, so but you're
It's not unreasonable. I think to observe that there appears to be something like a deep religious sensibility in your in your work
I mean you seem to be treating the stories with a tremendous amount of respect. And so
What what do you what do you think's welling up from inside of you to do that?
well, I'm glad you recognized the risk the respect any respect for this was like I
Approached these stories with an open mind and an open heart and was expecting to find some wisdom in them
When I began this project I
Thought I'm going to explore the religion of my father. My father came from a religious Jewish family
But he wasn't really religious
when I was growing up, although he had
He he wanted us to observe Passover
I guess as part of our he want us to have some Jewish identity. He wanted us to be in touch with our heritage as
Jews
But it was a bit muddled
Like we we were forbidden from
Observing any Christian holidays, there was no Christmas in our house. Whereas a lot of secular Jews do observe Christmas
There was like a really half-assed Hanukkah and there were no other high. Holy days, and my dad was an atheist. So
After
spending years
reading
as many different versions of
Exodus and
Commentary on it and things relating to it and trying to understand it and trying to find some way to connect to it
What happened was I realized that I had found the religion of my father and that was a theism
So I I became sort of a born-again a theist
Reading this stuff. My my neutrality towards the religion changed to a kind of
abhorrence
towards it
Which is which is not to take away from
Its importance, you know, it's a cultural foundation right? Like I live in Western culture and
these texts are stories that everybody knows to some extent and
You know, they're very important and I respect them for that reason that they're like a cultural touchstone for everyone, but I did not
emerge from
exodus
Was you know, I had like less connection to God than I had ever had in my life
I actually had like a spiritual crisis like
you know, it was really hard for me to have any kind of sense of a Power greater than myself after reading this and
And working with it
And that's also being the case as a consequence of doing the animation
Yeah, because you know animation is like a meditation when you made an old story
It's just a long drawn-out meditation on it and sometimes insights can pop up while you're working on it
I mean, it's just like in your face every day. I mean I have a
there are insights that I have one of them a lot of them are comparative religion insights because the previous film was Sita sings the
blues'
so in this film I included Aran a lot and Sita sings the blues' I left out, Lakshmana who is
roms brother and
I decided not to do that here
Even though with a lot of these stories when they're turned into films
Aran is made into this minor character and a lot of things that Aaron does in movies. They show Moses doing them like casting the
Staff down and it turns into a snake that was that was Aaron's business
But anyway, I showed Aaron in this and I thought about how both stories have these brothers
Have like the big important memorable brother and the other brother who?
Actually carries out quite a bit of the work
That's a similarity and of course both stories also have a
Really gruesome scene after what? We normally think of as the end like with Exodus especially growing up with Passover
I'd always thought a story was, you know, the Hebrews were slaves and then
You know
They were free. Right like the end is they're free. They crossed the Red Sea to get away from the Egyptians hooray
And of course what actually happens in the story after that is there's this Hebrew on Hebrew slaughter
Because of the golden calf and a whole bunch of those Hebrews who were liberated they die
Yeah, well liberation turns out to be a very complicated thing
Yeah, you know, it's funny when I when I watched the Americans go into Iraq
know with her initial optimism and
Then the absolute disintegration of the Iraqi state
I thought well and then the failure to produce something, you know stable as a consequence
I thought well a little bit of Exodus would have gone a long ways
It was quite funny in some sense because in a black way
because of course the people who
invaded Iraq who planned the invasion or
Were at least nominally
Committed Christians and I thought well
they took out the tyrant like
Just as the Hebrews escaped from the tyrant
let's say but no Exodus lays it out pretty clearly as you escaped from tyranny into the desert and
That's no joke and it's 40 years, right? It's three generations before the desert disappears and in the desert there's
nothing, but inter inter tribal warfare and
mmm D and the conflict
around new emerging values which is of course the conflict between the
idolization of the golden calf and and
the necessity for the new rules that Moses imposes
It's no picnic and then made a lot of the Old Testament is like that even I'd be doing a series of lectures
I don't know if you know about this, but I've done 12 lectures on the old
I've actually become quite popular. I think the first one has about three quarters of a million views and
I've been attempting to treat the stories with as much respect as I can because like you I believe that they're their
foundational stories and
um, I would say that my respect for them has actually grown and
my
relationship with whatever you might regard as transcendent has been improved by that but
Be that as it may
Even in the story of Abraham, you know, he's called forward by God to go out into the world
He's an old man by that time right? He's 75 years old
He should have left his family his father's house and and his
kinsmen long before but God calls him on an adventure to go out into the land of the stranger and to leave his home and
You know, it just goes terribly badly for Abraham
I mean the first thing he encounters is a
Famine and then he moves into the tyranny of Egypt and then you know the Pharaoh takes his wife. So it's
One of the things that you can say about the Old Testament is that it's not naively optimistic in any sense of the word
But the Passover story
kind of is as its as people observe it like when you read the Passover story, it's just this nice part and
That like I say that other part that later chapter, we never discussed that it Passover
Anyway, and you know, the closest we'll come is 40 years in the desert
Like I did know that the Jews wandered the desert for 40 years. I didn't know they killed each other
Right and and this is something similar to the Ramayana
Because the Ramayana is frequently told without the last chapter without the ohter. Akanda, which is the difficult part, right?
Which I think is the richest and most interesting part of the whole story
So I focused on it and see if this thing's the blues
but but yeah, I mean, I think that what
The most valuable parts of these stories are the most
Difficult and they're the parts that are left out and most people don't know about you have to actually read them. Yeah
well, they are the most useful parts because life is full of difficulty and
so with you over if you
Leap over the parts of the stories that are pessimistic and dark then
You missed part of what the stories are trying to teach you about how to prepare for catastrophe
I mean it says obviously in the Exodus story
the fact that the Hebrews escaped from tyranny is presented as a good thing and even as something that God wills
but it's by no means a straightforward passage from
Tyranny to the promised land. I mean and Moses doesn't make it to the promised land right? He he dies before he gets there
Yeah, and even the promised land
Is not nearly as much fun as it spin
As we have been led to believe
Right, like they're they're constantly the Jews are constantly falling short right there constantly angering God
They're never getting their shit together. You know God just keeps
You know God's ambivalence towards them
persists ya
Think that's very realistic because there are very few times in life where even if you're not
suffering from the tyranny of other people or or
Yourself that it's very difficult to walk the proper straight and narrow path and to keep everything organized and to keep things going properly
I mean, there's no there's never any shortage of severe challenges
Yeah, so enough, even if you're chosen by God, let's say there's no shortage of severe challenges
You also see that in all the other stories in the Old Testament. I mean, um
Even when God is walking with someone say like Abraham or Noah for that matter
It's pretty still pretty much non-stop carnage. Chubby. Noah. Noah has his family together and
His generations are perfect. Right and he walks with God, so he's properly oriented in the world, but he still has to
build the ark and and get through the damn storm and and
And and be humiliated by his children at the end and it's it's it's a very rough business
so in the in one of your
Shorts, and I don't know the name of it. It's the one
Where thee I guess it's the one that specifically deals with the Passover where the Egyptian firstborns are all killed. Yeah. Yeah
What's that one called death of the firstborn Egyptians? Terrible we go an appropriate title. I
Can't help but Harbor the suspicion that you had a fair bit of sympathy for the Egyptians
Yeah, well, you know
They had some great art
Yes. Yeah, and you do a wonderful job by the way of incorporating that into that film
It's that one is spectacularly beautiful. Well, thank you and they had religion and
I
Mean so doing visual research for this project
There's not a lot of really great ancient Hebrew art
possibly or probably because
It's against the religion to make art. You're not supposed to make graven images. So
in terms of coming up with a style that evoked this I had to
Yeah, I was looking at art from the region and I was like, oh, it's all Egyptian and Assyrian
those are the ones those are the people there that made the
Art fantastic art it breaks my heart that
That's supposed to be evil
Right that that that art which actually moves me when I look at it is what we're supposed to smash, right?
Like that's that's what we're commanded to destroy because it's it's all full of idols
I am NOT down with that. So I
You know just naturally was gonna sympathize with the Egyptians. This is all here. Well, there's a Roger there's a real
tension there that I think is worth thinking about you know, because I
Understand why from a psychological perspective. I understand why there was an injunction against making images and you know,
You see the same thing happened out right now with Isis say in the Middle East where they're destroying world
For example all the great Buddhist art and all those ancient
Monuments which of course is an absolute and utter catastrophe
but
Legend I mean they're following it better than we do
Right, right
well
So so the conundrum seems to me to be that
And this has also played out in the story of Exodus with the golden calf
But you know
the the idea of God is supposed to be something at least in principle that you can't really grip that you can't really
Encapsulate, you know that you can't dogmatically represent because then it turns into an idol and an idol and ideology are very much the same
Thing and I think ideology is terribly dangerous, you know
Because you take something
Concrete like an axiom of some sort you you you that's very concrete and then you make that your highest value and it narrows you
and then restricts you and also makes you incredibly dangerous and so
The idea that there's a great danger in idolization I think is uh is a very very powerful notion
And so I think that's what informed the restrictions against making
graven images of God because you end up confusing the image with the
Transcendent reality right and then you think that you understand it and you have it in your hands
but it certainly does seem to have some pretty
dramatically negative consequences when the consequence of that is the absence of
visual art in any profound sense and also this injunction to destroy
No
the idols of well of the foreigner or or of the hair of the person whose heretic older or and
I'm not exactly sure. How do
What would you say?
I'm not exactly sure what the mediating path is between those two extremes and I think a real artist and
I definitely think that you
belong in that category
as someone who isn't using
idols as representation because you're using your artistic talent to push beyond what you already know like it's a form of
exploration rather than a form of
Canonization or or categorization, right?
it's it's uh, it's uh,
it's a journey into the unknown and an extension of the way that people think and I think of that as a
Way of uniting with the transcendent rather than trying to encapsulate it in some sort of formulate box
But there is a great danger of that kind of formula formulas ation. So
Anyways, there is that danger and that's that is of course the commonest
Interpretation of the injunction against idols, but I think that
I mean, it's it's never born out right? It's like any injunction against that kind of
Idolatry has never resulted in the absence of idolatry ever
And we can clearly do it with abstract concepts. We can clearly do it you me clearly don't need images to do this
So you could argue that you could do it with words just as effectively, you know anything
