I've really been trying to understand the underlying psychology of postmodernism and its relationship with neo-Marxism,
and then the spread of that into the universities and the effect on the culture.
And what I would like to start with is a description of your understanding of that,
because I've presented to the people who are listening to me my understanding of it.
But I interviewed Stephen Hicks recently, and he wrote an interesting book called "Explaining Postmodernism," which I liked quite a bit.
It's been criticized for being too right-wing, although I don't think he's right-wing at all.
I think maybe you could characterize him as middle-of-the-road conservative, but I would say he's more like a classic liberal.
But I'm really curious about your views about, well, what— what Postmodernism is first of all.
I know you've— you've identified it with the— with the general tricksters Derrida and Lacan and Foucault.
And Foucault in particular you've talked about.
But I'd like to know what you think about postmodernism and also why you think it's been so attractive to people.
Well, my explanation is that there is no authentic 1960s point of view in any of the elite universities,
but rather the most liberated minds of my generation of 1960 did not go on to graduate school.
I witnessed this with my own eyes.
I saw genuine Marxists, okay, at my college, which was the State University of New York at Binghamton, upstate New York, Harpur College,
which had a huge cohort of very radical downstate New York Jews, okay, who—
In fact, Harpur used to be called Berkeley East.
I saw genuine passionate Marxists with my own eyes.
They were not word choppers.
They were not snide postmodernists, right?
They were in-your-face aggressive.
They used the language of the people.
They had a populist and energy, okay?
They dressed working class. They were nonmaterialistic, okay?
These are people who lived by their own convictions.
They were against the graduate schools, all right?
When I— When I, uh, went on to graduate school, and it became known that I was going to go to Yale,
I was confronted by a leader of the radicals on campus, in broad daylight in front of everyone,
who denounced me for— he said,
"Grad school is not where it's happening. You don't— You don't do that.
If you have to go to graduate school you should go to Buffalo."
Now, I had applied to SUNY Buffalo, because the great leftist critic Leslie Fiedler was there, who had a huge impact on me.
He's practically created identity politics, but without its present distortions, all right?
And Norman Holland, the psychoanalytic critic was there.
I would have been very happy to have gone on to Buffalo, but I needed the library at Yale, so I continued on to Yale.
There were no radicals in the graduate schools, okay, from 1968 to '72, when i was there.
Only one radical, Todd Gitlin, who went on to have a career success, okay?
The actual radicals of the 1960s, okay, either went off— dropped out of college, or went off to create communes, right,
or they were taking acid and destroyed their brains.
Now, I have also written about that,
the destruction of the minds, okay, of the most talented members of my generation through LSD.
It was going on all around me, right?
So, what's happened is the actual legacy of the '60s got truncated.
The idea that these post-structuralists and postmodernists are heirs of the 1960s revolution is an absolute crock, okay?
What they represent, as Foucault shows—
Foucault said, okay, that the biggest influence on his thinking, okay, was Samuel Beckett's "Waiting for Godot," okay,
which was a post-World-War-II play, written in Paris,
that was about the disillusionment and nihilism experienced after Hitler went through, occupied France, right, and all of Europe was in ruins.
It had nothing to do with what—
"Waiting for Godot" has nothing to do with the authentic legacy of the 1960s,
which was about genuine multiculturalism, a movement toward India, toward Hinduism,
a transformation of consciousness through psychedelics, which I did not take, but which I identify with totally through the music, etc., all right?
It was a turn toward the body.
It was a turn towards sensory experience, okay?
Not this "word-chopping" thing, and this, like, cynical removal from actual experience, all right?
That French import, okay, came in, okay, to the graduate schools.
It did not affect any genuine 1960s person.
The real 1960s revolution was about Jung.
It was about a way of seeing the cosmos in mythological terms, all right?
And the Jungian contribution went on into the New Age movement of the 1970s, aside from the universities, all right?
So, who took over the universities were these careerists, okay?
I saw them with my own eyes. I saw what happened. I saw—
I was at Yale when Derrida was being shipped over, okay, to address the, uh, you know, the students— the grad students and the faculty.
And I said to a fellow student, after hearing one of these guys speak—
It wasn't Derrida. It was another one of the theorists.
I said, "They are like high priests murmuring to each other." All right?
This was an elitist form from the start, okay?
It was not progressive. It was not revolutionary. It was reactionary.
It was a desperate attempt to hold on to what had happened before the 1960s sensory revolution.
But this postmodernist thing, okay, this trashing, okay, of the text,
this— this encouragement, okay, of a superior and destructive attitude toward the work of art—
We're going through it, okay, primly, with red pen in hand, finding all the evidence of sexism, check, racism, check, homophobia, check.
That is not the empathic, emotional, okay, sensory-based, okay, revolution of the 1960s, right?
I am sick and tired of these people claiming any kind of mantle from the 1960s. They're frauds.
These people are— What happened in the 1970s was a collapse of the job market in academia, okay?
All of a sudden, jobs were scarce, and this thing was there, the new and improved and shiny thing, okay, to be a theorist.
And people seized on it, okay? It was institutionalized, all right?
And it's an enormous betrayal of the 1960s.
Okay so that- You touched on this idea of "the destruction of the work of art".
You know, and one of the things I really liked about reading Nietzsche was his discussion of "ressentiment" right?
-of resentment and it seems to me that tremendous amount of the motive power
that drives the postmodernist- let's call It- it's not a revolution, uh-
transformation seems to me to be driven by resentment about virtually anything that has any,
well, what would you say... any merit of competence or aesthetic quality,
and I don't know if that's- It seems to me that that's partly rooted in the
academic's disdain for the business world, which I think is driven by their relative economic inequality,
because most people who are as intelligent as academics are,
from a pure IQ point of view, make more money in the private sphere, and so I think that drives some of it.
But there also seems to be this- There's a destruction, an aim for destruction of the  aesthetic quality of
the literary or artistic work, its reduction to nothing but some kind of power game, and then surrounding that,
the reduction of *everything* to something that approximates a power game, which I can't help but
identifying with jealousy and resentment as a fundamental motivator.
Does that seem reasonable to you?
These professors who allege that art is nothing but an ideological movement by one elite,
against the- against another group, these people are Philistines, okay?
They're Philistines. They're Middlebrow, hopelessly Middlebrow.
They have no sense of beauty. They have no sense of the aesthetic.
Now, Marxism does indeed assert this, but Marxism tries to reconfigure the universe in terms of materialism.
It sees- It does not recognize any kind of spiritual dimension.
Now, I'm an atheist, but i see the great world religions as enormous works of art,
as the best way to understand the universe and a man's place in there.
I find them enormously moving. They're like enormous poems, right?
And what I have called for, the true revolution, okay, would have been to make the core curriculum
of the world education, the *world*, okay, the great religions of the world.
I feel that is the only way to achieve an understanding, and it's also a way to present the aesthetic,
because i feel that that that the real sixties vision was about exultation, elevation, cosmic consciousness, okay?
All of these things were rejected by these midgets, okay, intellectual midgets
who seized onto Lacan, Derrida and Foucault. It's a- my career has been in the art school, my entire career,
beginning at Bennington college. So I represent a challenge to this from the perspective of Art.
It is an absolute nonsense, okay, as post-Structuralism maintains, that reality is mediated by language, by words.
Everything that we can know, including gender.
It is absolutely madness, because I'm teaching students whose majors are ceramics, ok, or dance,
or who are jazz musicians, who understand reality in terms of the body, its sensory activation.
So they- See, what happened was something was going on in the art world as well.
I identify With Andy Warhol in pop art, okay? That was what was going on during my years in college.
Everything about Andy Warhol was like, "Wow! Admiration! Wow!"
What happened immediately after that in the arts, 1970's okay, was this collapse into a snide sort of post-Modernism also.
This happened in the art world, and it was an utter misunderstanding of culture, it seems to me,
by that movement in the art World. That Is, oppositional art, in my view, is dead, okay?
-and what post-Modernism is, is a pathetic attempt to continue the old heroism of the Avant-garde.
The Avant-garde was genuinely heroic from the early 19th Century, okay?
We're talking about, you know, the corbeil, the realists, you know?
We're talking about Monet and the Impressionists,
people who have genuinely suffered for their radical ideas,
and their innovations and so on, going right down to Picasso, and down to Jackson Pollock,
who like was- who truly suffered for, you know, for his art.
It was only after his death, okay, that suddenly the market was created for abstract art.
Pop art killed The Avant-garde.
The idea that the Avant-garde continues is an absolute delusion of the contemporary art world,
which feels that it must attack, attack, attack- challenge, okay, the simplistic beliefs of the hoi polloi, okay?
It's somehow the order- What? Excuse me, okay?
From The Moment, okay, Andy Warhol went through and embraced the popular media,
instead of having the opposition to it that serious artists have had, that was the end of Oppositional art, okay?
So, we've been going on now for 50 years: the post-modernism and academes hand-in-hand
with the stupidity and infantilism that masquerades as, you know, as important art galleries everywhere,
this incredible, incredible, you know, its mechanism of contemporary art,
pushing things that are so hopelessly derivative,
and with this idea that, once again, that the art world somehow superior view of reality,
Authentic Leftism Is populist, okay?
It is based in working-class style, working-class language, working-class direct emotion,
in an openness and brusqueness of speech, okay?
-not this fancy, contorted jargon of the pseudo-leftist of academe, who are frauds.
These people who manage to rise to the top at Berkeley, at Harvard, At Princeton, okay?
How many of these people are radical?
They are career people. They're corporate types, okay, who succeeded in-
They *love* the institutional context. They know how to manipulate the bureaucracy,
which has totally invaded and usurped academe everywhere, okay?
These people are company-players.
They could have done well in any field, okay? They love to sit on endless committees.
They love bureaucratic regulation, and so on. There's not-
Not one *Leftist* in American academia raised his or her voice against obscene growth of tuition costs,
which have bankrupted a whole generation of young people.
Not one voice to challenge that invasion by the bureaucrats, okay, absolute fascist bureaucrats, okay,
with- who had a- They're like, uh,  cancerous, okay?
There's so many of them, the faculty have completely lost any power in American Academia, okay?
It's a scandal what has happened. I mean-
And they deserve the present servitude that they're in right now, because they never protested, okay?
When I- My first job at Bennington college, 1976 I was there, when there was an uprising by the faculty
against encroachment by the board of trustees and the president, and It was a huge thing. It Was reported on
The New York Times and so on and we pushed that president out and and there's not been a single
uprising of that kind against encroachment by the trustees and by the administrations,
and all these decades, passive slaves- Slaves! They *deserve* their slavery.
Yep, I couldn't agree more. I've thought the same thing about university professors for a long time.
is that they get exactly what they deserve because they never stand up and say, "no,"
and the fact that- In the United States it's not quite as bad in Canada, i wouldn't say, but the fact that the
students have been essentially handed a bill of indentured servitude here
for their student loans is absolutely beyond comprehension. You know, it seems to me that the
bureaucracy has basically conspired to determine how to pick the pockets of
The Students future earnings right and They do that By offering them an Extended adolescence With no quality control
something Like That so it's a real Bargain with the devil and Antle the abandonment of any Kind of Education Actually in history and culture
All right Think it's gone Along With It that is the
Transformation into a cafeteria
Kind of a Menu okay we can Pick This course or that Course of This course without any Kind of Guidance From the University about
A central core curriculum That teaches you history and Chronology and Introduces you to the basics
Because Oh yeah because our professors are such prima donnas they can Only teach in their little areas so we have this total
Fragmentation okay the Great Art History Survey Courses are being abandoned
Instead of Lincoln Because Why because graduate students are not trained to see the great
Narratives or the net Wheel Because we are taught Now that Narratives are false okay so That's another issue that i'd like to bring up
Because One of The Things i cannot figure out is the alliance between the post modernists and the
Neo-Marxists i can't Understand The Causal relationship There Because the
Tell me if you disagree with This okay because
I'm a Psychologist not a
Sociologist and so I'm dabbling in things that are outside of My Field Of expertise and There Is some danger in that but the center
The Central post Modernist claim Seems to me that Because There's a Near infinite Number of Ways to interpret a complex set of
Phenomena Which Which Actually happens to be the case
That You can't make a case That Any of Those Modes of Interpretation are canonical and so if They're not canonical
If that and if That
Canonical Element Isn't Based in some Kind of Reality Then It Serves some Other Master and so the Master that it
Hypothetically Serves for The post Modernists is nothing But Power Because That Seems to be everything that They believe in they don't believe in
Competence They don't believe in Authority They don't
Seem to believe in an objective World Because Everything is language mediated so it's an extraordinarily
Cynical perspective That That Because There's an infinite Number of
interpretations none of Them are canonical You can attribute It everything to power and dominance
okay so that Does that Seem like a Reasonable Summary of the
Okay it's a Radical relativism Now but the strange Thing Is despite okay and so What Goes Along with that is the demolition of Grand
Narratives and so That Would Be associated for Example with The rejection of Thinkers Like Jung and Eric Norman Because of Course Their
Foundational Thinkers in relationship to the idea that there are embodied grand Narratives That's never Touched but Then
Despite the fact that the grand narrative is Rejected There's a Neo Marxism That's Tightly Tightly allied With
Post-Modernism That Also Seems to shade Into This strange identity Politics and i don't
Two Things i don't understand the Causal relationship They're like The the skeptical part of me thinks That
Post-Modernism Was a Was an Intellectual its Intellectual camouflage for the continuation of the Kind of Pathological
Marxism That Produced the soviet union and that has no independent existence As an Intellectual field Whatsoever
but i still can't Understand How the post modernists can Make The no grand narrative claim
But Then
immerse Themselves in This grand narrative Without
Anyone Pointing Out the evident contradictions like i don't understand that so what do you think about that well i can Only Speak about Literary
professors Really and They Seemed to me almost Universally in the u.s
To be very naive i they Seem to know nothing about Actual History political science or economics
So it is simply an attitude They have an attitude it
Marxism and become Simply a Badge By Which They telegraph Their
Their Solidarity With a Working Class That They have nothing to do with i mean Easy and Generally nothing But contempt yes and the Thing
Is that that the campus leftist are almost notorious for their for theirs Rather snobbish Treatment of Staff and They don't They don't
Have Any rapport With The Actual Working Class members of The
you Know of the infrastructure the janitor The Janitors and you Know even That's even The secretaries there's a Kind of High and Mighty
Aristocracy You Know but There was Just these are People who
Who have Wandered into the english department and are products of a Time When
During The The new criticism may wait When history of history and Psychology had Been Excluded right i Mean My
Ambition okay Was i mean i love the New criticism okay as As a Style of Textual
Analysis right and and that in the new criticism had
Multiple Interpretations
Okay that were possible okay and then They were encouraged in fact one of the one of the Great projects was made in max of
Serious 20th Century Views When you had at Least Books i Adored them in college It was about Jane Austen or about you know
Emily Bronte or about
Wordsworth and They were collections of alternate views of The same Thing the idea that no alternate views and there was no
Relativistic the situational Kind of an interpretive approach is nonsense okay i'm but the point was we needed to restore
History to literary Literary Study okay and we Needed to add
Psychology to it because it was there was Great animus against freud and When i arrived in
Graduate School in fact i actually went into the director of graduate studies and protested The way freud in Freudian were used as
negative Terms Play in a Sneering Way by The Very Wasp professors right so we need to do
Actually It Seemed Like we were moving there came in the Early 1970s Was a Great Period of Psycho
Biography about Great about political Figures okay
so i thought it's happening Let's Say and all of a Sudden It all Got Short-Circuited by This arrival You know of post structuralism and
Post-Modernism in The in the in the 1970s right so i
I feel i'm an old Historicist, okay,
not a new Historicist.  I having i think new Historicism is an absolute scam.
right and it's like- it's just a way- it's like tweezers do you like Just a
Little Bit of This a Little Bit of That a Little Bit of that you make a Little tiny
Salad i guess and I'm some of This Atomized Thing Right it's supposed to
Mean something it's all to me very superficial Very Cynical a
Very distance i like i am i am the product okay of old historicism the German Philosopher
Profession When i was a Child What Was Ejected
Archeology Like I'm everything i ever think about or Say Is
Related to an Enormous time scheme okay from from Antiquity and Indeed from the stone age
and That is the problem with these People: They're mal-educated. The post-Modernists and
Academic Marxist okay are mal educated
Embarrassingly so okay they know nothing before the present. Foucault is
absolutely a joke before the Enlightenment.
Perhaps he might Be useful People to talk about What happens after
Neoclassicism Which by the way he failed to notice okay a Lot of What he was talking about It turns Out to see be simply
The Hangover of Neoclassicism okay
This is how ignorant that Man Was i Mean he's he was he was not Talented as a Researcher he knew absolutely
nothing okay was so you know nothing about Antiquity how can you make any Kind of large
structure large mechanism you know to analyze Western culture Without Knowing about
Classical Antiquity he did not see anything This Was a Person Who had no business
Making Large Theoretical Statements about anything Well Maybe Part of It is that if you if you
Generate an Intelligible doctrine of Radical relativism Then There is no reason to assume that there are distinctions between
Categories of Knowledge or Between different Levels of quality of Knowledge right so
I've seen The same Thing in in the psychology Departments although We Have the?
What Would you call it the Luxury of being Bounded at Least to some degree by the
Empirical Method and By Biology Right It's one of The things that Keeps most of the Branches of
Psychology relatively sane you know because the Real World is Actually built into it to some degree but
If you accept the
Postmodernist Claim of Radical relativism then You completely demolish The idea That there our quality levels That are associated with Education
Because Everything Becomes The same and That Seems to me to be a perfectly reasonable Justification for Maintaining Ignorance
You Know like Foucault i Actually Found Him the most readable of the locka
Derrida Foucault triad You can Read foucault i Read Madness and
Civilization and a Couple of His other Books and i thought They were Painfully obvious you know the idea That
Mental disorder Is in part a Social Construct Is self-Evident to anybody
Who has Even a Smattering of psychiatric training i Mean That the Real Narrow medical Types tend to to think of a
Mental disorder Let's Say As something That might Be Purely Biological They have a pure disease Model But Nobody's Who's a
sophisticated Thinker ever Thinks That it's a
Bit Partly Because medicine Is a Brand of engineering Not a brand of science Because it's associated with Health and the
Diagnostic Categories are Hybrids Between
Physiological Observation and socio-cultural Condition Everyone Knows That and so When i Read Madness and
Civilization i thought Well That's Not radical That's Just Bloody
self-Evident But Well you Know Foucault's Admirers Actually Think that he began you know the entire Turn toward a Sort of Sociological
you Know Grounding of Modern Psychology to social Psychology Was well well Launched in the 1920s for
Examine The Levels of Ignorance of These People Who think foucault Is so original have not Read?
Durkheim They've Not Read Marks of Weber They've never Read urban Goffman okay so in other Words Through to me
Everything Is Foucault Seem obvious to me because i had Read the sources from Which he was Borrowing Without attribution
So i mean Again i know these People i mean i mean in some cases
Knew them in graduate school People Who went on to become these
These Admirers of Foucault
Lacan derrida and I know What Their training Was Their training Was Purely Within the english department That's all They ever Knew They never made
Any Research Outside of That Right and so the idea so they
Foucault is simply This is a Mechanism
It's like a Little Tiny kit by Which they can approach everything in culture and Then and then They put the contortions of language the
Deliberate Labyrinth in Elitist language at The same time as pretending to be a leftist
Okay this is one of the biggest Frauds Every practice so i got a Story to tell you That
you Might Like Because i've Thought a lot about that use of language you know because
Language can Be Used as camouflage and so, Here's the Story i think i Got this from Robert Sapolsky?
So he was talking about Zebras and
Zebras Of Course have stripes and hypothetically That's associated with camouflage but it's it's not a straightforward
Association Because Zebras are Black and White and They're on the veldt Along With the lions the lions are
camouflage Because They are grass colored But the Bloody Zebras are Black and White you can See them like 15 miles away, so ok so
Biologists Go Out to study Zebras and They're Like
Making notes on a Zebra and They Watch It then they look down at Their notes and then They look up but they think oh?
No, no, Which zebra i was looking at so
The camouflage is Actually against The Heard Because of Zebras a Herd Animal not an individual and so
The Black and White stripes break Up the animal against The herd so you can't identify It so this Was a
Quandary for the Biologist so they did one of Two Things One Was
drive a Jeep Up to the to the zebra Herd and use a dab of Red paint and Dab the horns of the zebra or
tag It with an ear tag Like he used for cattle
The Lions Would Kill it
So as soon as it became
identifiable The
Predator Yes
The predators Could organize Their Hunt Around That identify about animal That's Why you know there's the old Idea That
Lions and predators Take Down the Weak animals but They don't They take down the
identifiable animals so That's the Thing is if you stick your Damn hand up
You Get Picked off by The predators and so One of The things that Academics seem to do is congregate together and herd-Like
Entities and Then They share a language right and the language Unites them and
Also Keeps Them as long as They share the same set of linguistic Tools Among Themselves
They're they know that there isn't anybody in the in the coterie That's going to attack them or deeds
Destabilize The entire herd and that Seems to me to account for that impenetrable use of language it's it's it's Group
Protection strategy and It has Absolutely nothing to do with the search for
It's the Search for Security Within a System and not the desire to Expand the system
But it'S to me it's Blatantly Careerist Because It Was it was about
Advancement and It was also about the claim that Somehow
They have Like Special expertise This is a Special Technical language no One else can Understand That Only Only a Weekend But What's absurd about
It absolutely
Ludicrous all Right That These People These These American Academics who are imitating the contorted language of French
Translations From The French okay
When Lack Call is translated into into english Right There's a
Contortion There okay he's what he was trying to do in french Was to break up okay the
Neoclassical
Formulations That Descended From arras scene there Was something that Was going on there Was a Sabotage of The french language going on that Was?
Necessary in france not Necessary in english We Have This long tradition of
Poetry Going back to the shakespearean Chaucer We Have We Have our own language?
Far more Vital Than That Than the french oh yeah the french constrain Their language all The time but my dear?
Facility in Amateurism okay of American Academics trying to imitate okay a
Chance a chinois
okay When like Costumes something in france that is Actually not Necessary and Indeed wrong to be doing in english right the
Other Cynical Abandonment okay of the Great tradition of
you Know of the english Departments i and iii i felt That the true Radicalism Was not about adding on other
Departments okay so we have
African-American Studies and You Know and and and Women's studies and so on the true radicalism would have Been Just to Shatter The
Departmental structure That's What i wanted i feel that Was the authentic revolutionary Nineteen Sixties Thing to do right
Tell It to blend all the literate literature studies studies Together okay
to make Easier to make an interdisciplinary Kind of
Organization you Know closer to the british Model Where a person can Pursue related Subjects Overlapping Subjects
These dip These Depart Mental Models okay are were to me
Totalitarian to Begin With okay separating the language into fiefdom and and and What What this did to create the english What Women's studies Department
Absolutely Out of The air Just Snap Your fingers and create Women Studies the english department had taken a Century to develop okay that Way?
It Was a Huge argument okay within Within Within It right and all of a Sudden to create okay
A department where they
politicize agenda From The start and hey by People Without any training Whatever in that Field i Mean What should Be the what Should be
The parameters of The field Which Would be the requirements of that Field How about Biology
okay if you're going to be discussing gender that Should
Have Been a Number One requirement okay as Part of Any Women's studies department or program but no okay
It Was all Hands off It Was Just the
Administrators Wanted To solve a public relations problem They had a Situation with Very Few Women Faculty
Nationwide at a time When the women's movement had Just started up that spotlight of Attention Was Was on them they want They Needed Women
Faculty Fast They Need to do with the with the women's subject on the agenda fast right so they Just like Poof
Let There be Women studies okay and Now we'll Just hire some women and usually from english Departments you know
Here and there and we'll Just Throw them together you invent it you Say What it is so That's Why women's studies Got
Frozen At a Certain Point of ideologies
okay of The Early
1970s i was
Already in Revolt From It okay i was a precursor in terms of My endorsement of feminism Before It before even Now was created Right
But i couldn't yeah i couldn't even have a Conversation With Any of These Women They were?
Hysterical about The subject of Biology They Knew nothing about Hormones and i i mean i i
Probably Got in fistfights
Over This They What People were so
Convinced That Biology had nothing Whatever to do with gender differences see that also Seems to me to be related
To the postmodern emphasis on power yeah Because There's a There's something?
Terrible Underground Going on there that Is and i think this is the sort of Thing That Was Reflected in the soviet union
Too and the especially in the 20s When there was this idea a Radical idea that You could
Remake Human Beings Entirely Right Because They have no essential nature and so if your Fundamental
Hypothesis is that nothing Exists Except Power and you believe That then that also Gives you the right in some sense to
exercise Your Power at The Creation of the Kind of Humanity That Your
Utopian Vision envisions and Then That has no that and that also Seems to me to justify the postmodern insistence That
Everything is Only a Linguistic
Construct It Again Goes down to the notion of Power Which derrida and Foucault and locke Our so bloody obsessed with and
so and It Seems to me what They're trying to do is to it to take all
All the potential Power for the Creation of Human Beings to Themselves Without Any Bounding Conditions?
Whatsoever right There's no History There's no biology There's and and everything Is a Fluid culture that can be
Manipulated at Will and so i mean in canada there are terrible arguments Right Now about
Biological essentialism Let's Say And One of The Things that Happened Which Was something i objected to precisely a Year ago is that the social
constructionist view of Human Identity has Been Built now into canadian law so there's an insistence That
Biological sex
Gender Identity Gender Expression and Sexual Proclivity Very
Independently With no causal
Relationship Between Any of The levels and so That's in the law and not Only is It in the law it's being Taught
Everywhere it's being taught in the armed Forces
it's being taught in the police it's being taught to the Elementary School Kids and the Junior High school Kids and
Underneath It all i see this terrible
Striving for Arbitrary Power That's associated with This Crazy utopianism and and and
but i still don't Exactly Understand It i don't like i don't Understand That
What seems to be the hatred that motivates It that You see bubbling Up for Example in identity Politics and and
in the desire to do nothing But Let's Say Demolish The
Patriarchy It Kind of Reminds me and this is something else i wanted to talk to you about you know and
You're you're an Admirer of Eric Norman and all you yeah and That's the
Norman Connection is Really interesting cuz i think he's a Bloody Genius i Really like the great mother Is a Great
Book and I'm Really a Great Warning that. Book and also the origins and History of Consciousness
Yeah But That's so interesting i Read an Essay that you wrote
Yes it's always Been staggering to me that that book hasn't had the impact that it Should
Have had i Mean Young Himself in the preface to that book?
Wrote that that Was the book that he wished that he would have Written it's Very Much associated With Young Symbols of
Transformation and It Was a Major influence on my book maps of Meaning Which Was an Attempt to
Outline the universal Archetypes That are portrayed in the Kind of religious structures that you
That You Put Forward but The thing that i really see happening and you can tell me what you think about this in annoyance book?
Consciousness Which is
Masculine symbolically Masculine for a Variety of Reasons Is is viewed as
Rising Up
Against The countervailing Force of Tragedy from an Underlying
feminine symbolically feminine Unconsciousness Right and it's something That Can Always Be pulled back into that unconsciousness That Would Be the
Microcosm of That Would be The Freudian eatable mother
Familial Dynamic Where the mother is so over
protective and all-Encompassing
That She Interferes with the development of The competence not Only of her sons but also of her Daughters of her Children in General and
It seems to me that That's the
Dynamic That's being Played Out in our society Right Now is that there's this and
It's it's related in some Way that i don't understand to this to this
Insistence That all Forms of masculine Authority are nothing But Tyrannical Power so the Symbolic representation is
Tyrannical Father With no
Appreciation for the benevolent Father and
Benevolent mother With no appreciation Whatsoever for the tyrannical mother right and That's that and because i thought of ideologies as
Fragmentary Mythologies That's Where They Get Their
Archetypal and Psychological Power Right and so in a Balanced representation You have the terrible mother and the great mother as?
Knowing Been Laid Out so Nicely and
You Have the terrible father and the Great Father so That'S the fact that culture bangels you have to Death well it's also?
Promoting you in developing you you have to see that as balanced and then You have the heroic and Adversarial individual but in the?
Postmodern World and This Seems to be something That's increasingly
Seeping Out into the culture at large you have nothing but the tyrannical father?
nothing But The destructive Force of masculine consciousness and nothing but the benevolent
Benevolent Great mother and It's a it's an appalling ideology and It Seems to me that it's sucking the vitality
Which is Exactly What you would Expect symbolically it's sucking the Vitality of Our culture you see that with the increasing
Demolition of
Young men
and Not Only Young men in terms of Their Academic performance Which like They're Falling Way behind
in Elementary School Way behind in Junior High and Bailing Out of the universities like Mad and so and i
Well The Public school Education become completely Permeated by This Kind of my anti male
Propaganda i mean and i need to me public Schools are Just a form of imprisonment you Know right Now they're particularly
Destructive to young men who have a Lot of physical Energy
Now you know i identify as transgender gay Mic Myself away but i do not i do not
require the entire world to alter itself okay to fit my particular The self-image i do believe in
The Power of Hormones i believe that men Exist and Women Exist and They are biologically different i think that i think there is
No cure for
The Cultures ills Right Now Except If men Start standing opera in demanding That They be
Respected As men okay okay so i got a question about That
So so one of The Things we did a research Project a Year ago trying to figure out if there Was such a Thing as
Political Correctness From a Psychometric perspective to find out if there the loose
Aggregation of Beliefs Actually Clumped Together
Statistically and We Actually Found two factors Which i won't go into but then we Looked at Things That predicted adherence to that That?
Politically Correct Creed and There were a couple That were surprising one was being female Was a predictor
The
Personality attributes associated With Femininity so that Would Be Agreeableness and higher levels of negative emotion were also both
independent predictors but so were symptoms of personality disorder Which i thought Was really important Because Part of What i see happening is That
Like i think that Women whose relationship with men have has Been Seriously?
Pathologized Cannot distinguish Between male Authority and competence and male
Tyrannical Power Like They fail to differentiate because all They see is the oppressive male and then They may Have had Experiences that That?
Their Experiences with men might have Been Rough enough so that That differentiation never occurred Because it has to occur
And You have to have a Lot Of Experience with men and Good men do before that will occur?
But It Seems to me that we're also increasingly dominated By a view of Masculinity That's Mostly Characteristic of Women who have terrible
Personality disorders and Who are unable to have Healthy relationships with men Now but Here's the problem you know?
This is something My Wife is pointed Out to she said well men are gonna have to stand up for Themselves but Here's the problem?
I know how to stand up to a man Who's
Whose
Unfairly
Trespassed Against me and the reason i know that is because the parameters for My resistance are quite well-Defined Which is
We talk We argue we Push and then It Becomes physical
Right Like If We Move Beyond The Boundaries of civil discourse we Know what the Next step is ok That's Forbidden in in
Discourse with Women and so i don't think that men can control Crazy Women i don't they i really don't believe it i think That
They have to Throw Their Hands up in in in in what in in it's not even disbelief
It's that The cultural There's no step Forward That You can take Under Those Circumstances
Because if the Man Is offensive enough and Crazy Enough The
Reaction Becomes Physical Right Away or at Least The Threat is there and
When men are talking to each Other in any serious Manner That Underlying Threat of
Physicality is Always there especially if It's a real conversation and Keeps The Things civilized to some degree you know iF you're talking to a
Man Who wouldn't fight with You under any Circumstances Whatsoever then you're talking
To someone to whom you have absolutely no respect but i can't See any Way for Example
There's a There's a Woman in in toronto Who's Been?
Organizing This movement Let's Say Against me and some Other People who are gonna do a free speech
Event and she Managed to organize quite effectively and She's quite?
offensive You might Say She compared us to nazis for Example Which you know publicly
Using The Swastika Which wasn't really something i was all That far in Depth but i i'm defenseless against That Kind of female
Insanity Because The
Techniques That i would use against a Man Who was employing those tactics are Forbidden to me
So i don't know like It seems to me that It isn't men that have to stand up and Say Enough of This even though
That is What They Should do It Seems to me that it's same Women who have to stand up against Their Crazy
sisters and Say Look enough of That enough man-Hating enough
Pathology enough Bringing disgrace on us as a Gender But
The problem there and then They'll Start My little tirade is that most of the Women i know
Who are saying are Busy doing same Thing
Right They're off They have Their career They have Their Family They're quite occupied and they don't seem
To have the time or maybe even the interest to go after Their Their Crazy Harpy sisters and so i don't see any
regulating Force For That That terrible Femininity and It Seems to me to be
Invading the culture and
undermining The The masculine Power of the culture in a Way That's i think
Fatal i really do Believe that i - i too believe these are
Symptomatic of the decline of Western culture and We and it Will Just Go down flat i don't think People realize that you know
Masculinity Still Exists okay in the World As a Code among Jihadists
Okay and when you have passionate Masculinity okay circling the Borders like The huns and the Vandals during The roman empire
That's what i see i see this culture rotting from Within okay and
Disemboweling Itself Literally Now mile an Overview of Why we're having this problem
and It comes from The fact that I'm the product of an immigrant Family all four of My
Grandparents and My mother were born in Italy
so i remember from my earliest Years in This factory Town in upstate New York where the wife of My relatives came to work in
The shoe Factory i can Remember Still okay
