[Mendelssohn: String Quartet No. 6 in F minor,
III. Adagio]
[V.O] "Imagine how a woman feels."
“Imagine how soft and warm her skin feels.
"Imagine the sweet smell of her perfume.
"Imagine her tenderly pressing her soft lips
against yours.
"Imagine her letting you get on top of her
and insert your [bleep] inside her, softly
"moaning as it slides in.
"Imagine the walls of her tight, soft, warm
[bleep] wrapped around every inch of your [bleep].
"Imagine her breathing getting heavier with
every thrust.
"Imagine her wrapping her arms and legs around
you, holding you as close as she possibly
"can and begging you to [bleep] inside her
as you release every ounce of your [bleep]
"into her.
"Then imagine the feeling of pure satisfaction
and peace that comes afterwards, and looking
"beside you to see a person that cares about
you and has accepted you
"in the most intimate way possible.
“You will never get to experience this because
your skeleton is too small or the bones in
"your face are not the proper shape.
"Have a nice day.”
[Melancholic chill jazz]
- Hello boys.
Let’s talk about bone structure.
[Chill music]
There’s something basically Soviet about
the way the Internet names things.
Stalin had portmanteaus like "agitprop", "politburo",
and "kompromat", and we have "webinar", "podcast",
and "incel", short for "involuntary celibate."
The word "incel" was invented in the late 90s
by a lonely bisexual called Alana, who
created a website called "Alana's Involuntary
Celibacy Project" that was essentially a safe
space for people who just couldn’t get it
in.
But in our own miserable moment of Internet
history, the word “incel” refers to a
more specific community of mostly heterosexual
men, centered around forums like Incel.me
and r/braincels.
This group has recently gotten a lot of bad
press because for the last few years they’ve
been churning out mass murderers faster than
Marvel can make Avengers movies.
But most incels aren’t violent killers.
They’re just men who’ve formed an identity
around not getting laid.
In this video I don’t want to mock incels
or lecture them or even sympathize with them.
I just want to understand who they are and
why they’re like this.
To start with, sometimes the best way to understand
a person’s world is to learn their language,
and the language of the incels… well.
You’ll see.
1st Base: Incelese
Does it ever bother you that the word “women”
makes adult females sound just a little bit
too human?
Well incels have a solution to that.
They’ve taken to calling women "feeeeeemoooooids."
The choice of vocabulary tells us how incels
think of women: not as sisters or mothers,
and certainly not as autonomous people, but
as a kind of foreign, inscrutable object,
comparable to a natural resource—unobtainium—to
which incels believe all men are entitled,
and to which they feel they have been unjustly
denied.
There’s a long tradition of nerdy men talking
about women in nerdily misogynistic ways.
I’m reminded of famed rocket scientist Werner
von Braun’s remark about female astronauts:
[V.O.] “We are reserving 110 pounds
of payload for recreational equipment.”
- Which is not to say that alpha males are less
misogynistic than nerds, but simply that the
nerds have a nerdy style of misogyny.
Now “femoid” is about as neutral a term
as incels have for women and it’s only downhill
from there.
There’s the usual standbys: "bitches", "sluts",
"whores", all conveying a searing resentment
of female sexuality, the pinnacle of which
is represented by the bespoke incel coinage
“roastie” which, I’m sorry to inform
you, refers to the incel belief that the human
vulva become mutilated through repeated penetration
by different men—though not through repeated
penetration by the same man interestingly—and
thereby come to resemble roast beef.
Now by definition, incels haven’t actually
observed any vaginas, but to incels anatomy
is more a matter of metaphysical speculation
than crude science.
Though, if you ask me the right metaphor for
a veteran vag is not roast beef, but sour grapes.
Of course, not all feeeemooooids are created
equal.
There are various subspecies:
- [David Attenborough style V.O.] The
Becky, or normie femoid, is to be contrasted
with the Stacy, or sexually desirable femoid,
whose distinguishing features include “makeup
on point; Never works a day in her life; Naturally
curvy body gives men instant erections; big
tits and ass show fertility.
- Leave my buns alone you savages.
The Stacy, naturally, has a male counterpoint,
whom incels call the Chad.
- [David Attenborough style V.O.] A
Chad is a hunky alpha, whose hands are always
prepared to grab nearby fertile pussy; he
has never heard a song in his entire life;
he has a sloped forehead with a strong brow,
ram bow chin, strong jawline, flat occipital plate.
- It must needs be remarked that the skull of
the Chad exhibiteth a brow ridge most pronounced
whereas the skull of the virgin is most inadequate
in this regard, predisposing such specimens
to an abject existence of lamentation and
cuckoldry.
- It’s time to talk about bone structure.
According to a classic incel meme,
- [David Attenborough style V.O.] “The
difference between Chad and non-Chad is literally
"a few millimeters of bone.”
- I would like to propose a sociological theory.
Foppington’s law: Once bigotry or self-loathing
permeate a given community, it is only a matter
of time before deep metaphysical significance
is assigned to the shape of human skulls.
Why skulls, you ask.
Well, the best explanation I can come up with
is that a skull is inanimate and unchangeable.
It’s therefore the perfect symbol of the
intrinsic and permanent characteristics that
bigots like to assign to certain groups of
people.
If you believe for example that a certain
race or gender is intellectually inferior,
you can justify your belief by pointing to
the shape a skull and saying, "Well, that’s
the reason why, it’s just nature, there’s
nothing that can be done about it."
And that is exactly the way incels think about
love and celibacy.
Mankind is divided into two groups of people,
the Chads with the fuckable skulls and the
incels whose bones come up a few millimeters
short.
Corndog, anyone?
I’m really hungry.
Of course, it’s not just the skulls the
incels blame for their sexlessness.
They have a whole dictionary of jargon explaining
the causes of involuntary celibacy.
Heightcels are incel due to their inferior
stature.
Whereas mentalcels can’t attract women because
of mental illness or autism, or they’re
addicts and then called drugcels.
Wristcels, on the other hand, are doomed by
their overly delicate wrists.
Now, obsessing about your wrist size does
seem a little weird.
- [V.O.] “Oh yeah?"
"Is it a little weird that the average dildo
has more girth than my wrist?
"Is it weird at all that some men have thicker
dicks than my wrist?
"But yeah, obviously ‘obsessing’ about
my tiny wrists that are smaller than even
"many women’s is completely irrational body
dysmorphia and the reason why no woman wants
"to be with me or even talk to me is my shitty
personality even though literal 80 IQ men
"who have nothing to talk about except who
won the game last night are still able to
"attract a loving partner.”
- ...Interesting.
A significant number of incels are not white,
in which case their unfuckability is attributed
to race, and they are accordingly termed,
apologies in advance, blackcels, ricecels,
currycels, and so on.
Which is not to say all non-white men are
celibate.
There are of course the occasional Chads of
color, with their superior skulls and towering
stature, whom the incels have christened Tyrones,
Changs, and Chadpreets.
I’m so sorry.
So you can be incel because of your looks,
your height, your mind, or your race, but
what unites them all is the conviction that
love and sex are forever out of reach.
Unless of course you delusionally imagine
that you can “ascend,” that is, escape
your inceldom.
If you falsely and pathetically believe that
there is any possibility of improvement, well,
that makes you the lowest of the low, a sad
and sorry hopecel.
Second base: The Red Pill
So we have the building blocks of the incel
worldview: the Stacys, the Chads, the incels,
and the normies.
From these elements, incels have constructed
a theory of human nature and of sexuality,
which they call the Red Pill.
Incels share the Red Pill worldview with the
rest of the manosphere, that is, pick-up artists,
men’s rights activists, and the voluntary
celibate community known as Men Going Their
Own Way, abbreviated MGTOW.
According to Red Pill theory, women are by
nature hypergamous.
Hypergamy, new Greek for marrying above, refers
to the practice of seeking relationships with
men above one’s social status, and also,
in incel usage, above one’s attractiveness.
According to incels, physical attractiveness
is naturally distributed equally between the sexes.
So, if you were to assign numerical ratings
to attractiveness, as incels like to do, there
would be about as many say 8/10 women as 8/10
men.
Incels believe that in a just world, a 5/10
man would naturally wind up in a relationship
with his looksmatch, that is, a 5/10 woman,
equivalently attractive to himself.
But sadly, this just system has been ruined
by hypergamous women, who, regardless of their
own attractiveness, are only interested in
dating Chad.
Incels sometimes call this the 80/20 rule,
the idea that only the top 20% of men will
ever be desired by women.
Now since most heterosexual men do end up
in relationships with women, you might be
raising your eyebrow at that idea.
But incels have an explanation.
According to the Red Pill theory, women often
pursue a mating strategy called "Alpha Fux
Beta Bux."
This means that in her 20s a woman will, as
incels say, ride the cock carousel, sleeping
with as many Chads as possible.
But as she ages into her 30s she will settle
down with a beta normie, whom she’s not
really attracted to, but whom she will use
for financial support, all the while continuously
cuckolding him on the alpha cock carousel,
before inevitably abandoning him, taking him
for everything he’s worth in a divorce settlement,
and running off to the Mediterranean with
all the children and a new Chad boyfriend,
while the beta cuck is left behind to fester
in alimony payments, solitude, and poverty.
So the upshot of the Red Pill theory is that
for men, there are three possible outcomes.
Either you’re an incel, doomed to a lifetime
of excruciating loneliness and resentment,
or you’re a normie, destined to wind up
in a sexless marriage with an unfaithful wife,
who will divorce you, win custody of the children
and run off will all your money.
Or you could be an alpha—an independent,
promiscuous man who sleeps with lots of women
and forms attachments to none of them.
In the Red Pill philosophy there are two ways
to become alpha.
The first is simply to be a Chad by nature.
The second is to become a pick-up artist.
Redpilled pick-up artists believe basically
the same things about women that incels believe,
that they are hypergamous, duplicitous, and
fuckable, but not lovable.
The difference is that pick-up artists are
not celibate, in fact they try to have sex
with as many women as possible by following
a series of strategies and scripts known as
“game” as described by the book of that
title, as well as by the red-pilled pick-up
artist Roosh V, author of a book called—
Bang, a new mascara from Benefit.
So the tube is bomb, I am living.
Let’s see what kind of wand it has.
Oh...it’s so big.
I wonder what Roosh is up to lately.
- I bake my own bread.
Yes, I’m outing myself as a baker, as someone
who likes to cook.
I’m not a woman.
I am ultra masculine, as you can see, but
baking and cooking in general is a scientific thing.
And men like scientific things.
I used to be a scientist.
- Well, Roosh you know what?
If it means you leave women alone then I hope
you enjoy your new life as an ultra-masculine baker—
sorry, I mean bread scientist.
So remember the red pill is the realization
that women are hypergamous by nature, 20%
or less of men are really attractive to women,
dating is a sexual marketplace, and feminism
is a pretext for enabling women to behave
however they want while consigning men to
emasculation and impotence.
The black pill is the additional realization
that one’s place in the sexual marketplace
is genetically determined, that one is a permanent
virgin, that sex and relationships are forever
out of reach, and hence that happiness is
impossible and there’s nothing one can do
except Lie Down and Rot.
The black pill is, essentially, dogmatic hopelessness
about dating and about life in general.
It is the pinnacle of what psychotherapists
call catastrophizing: a cognitive distortion
where anxiety or depression leads you to infer
apocalyptic conclusions from mundane setbacks
and anxieties.
For instance, a catastrophizing person might
begin with the thought, oh no, I’m going
to be late for work, and from there infer:
my boss is going to be angry, I’m going
to lose my job, I’m not going to able to
get another job, I’m going to be unemployed
forever, my family will starve, oh god we’re
all going to die.
Each step in the sequence is sort of plausible,
but the leap from step one to step seven is
completely absurd.
This is exactly how the black pill works.
You start with experiences of rejection and
isolation.
From there you infer that you are unattractive
to women, that you will never be attractive
to any woman, that you will be forever alone,
that you will always be unhappy, that women
did this to you, that feminism empowered women
to do this to you, that the social trends
that made this possible are only getting worse,
that humanity itself is doomed and your only
option is to lie down and rot.
Of course, not all incels take things quite
so far, but a lot of them do.
On incel forms suicidal ideation is very common,
and posts are often tagged “sui fuel”
or “rope fuel” meaning that they make
you want to kill yourself, usually because
they’re reminders of how hopeless the incel
situation is, or how devastating it is that
incels are missing out on the incredible bliss
of sex and romance.
Now if you suggest to incels that posting
sui fuel on forums already populated with
lonely and depressed people is maybe not the most responsible idea, they respond that, "Oh it's
"just dark humor, it’s just a cope, throw
us a bone here."
But a lot of the suicidal stuff shows no signs
of humor, and it’s common to see people
express pretty extreme states of depression,
which is not surprising, since hopelessness
is the logical conclusion of the black pill
worldview.
One’s possibility for happiness is determined
by the genetics of height, frame, and facial
bone structure. And if you don’t have these
gifts there’s no relief but to cope or rope.
Now—it’s pretty tempting to just mom the
shit out of these kids.
You want to grab them by their Black Ops t-shirts,
shake them a bit and tell them that there
are millions of men with small wrists and
weak chins getting laid every day, that they’re
their own worst enemies, that they need to
get off the computer, go outside, make some
friends, stop hating women, get some hobbies,
and who knows maybe then they’ll develop
a disposition that women find a little more
approachable.
Essentially, you want to tell them, "Clean your
room, bucko."
In fact for the young men in this demographic
who are receptive to that kind of advice,
Jordan Peterson is probably helpful.
Because he’s telling them a lot of what
they need to hear, and he’s kind of a sexist
old man so they might actually listen.
But most incels don’t want to hear this
kind of advice.
In fact, they view it as essentially a microaggression.
You are, in effect, chadsplaining their oppression
to them when you give basic advice like, "be
more confident," "take a shower," to people who
have already experienced a lifetime of rejection and isolation,
and who believe they’ve already tried everything.
So they despise this kind of advise, and devote
endless posts to bitterly mocking the futility
and insensitivity of it.
- [V.O.] “Just go out to parties, bro!”
“Instead of hating on women all day why
don’t you losers just try being confident
"like this average looking guy?
"Confidence is key.”
“You incels need some hobbies.
"Try reading some books, women love INTELLIGENCE!
"It works for me bro!”
“Aw, you just need to get out more.”
♪ No one knows what it’s like to be hated
♪
- To incels, their worldview seems ironclad.
It has built-in defenses against anyone who
would try to change their minds.
So if you want to understand incels, and in
particular if you want to understand why their
community produces so many mass murderers,
you have to understand that the black pill
is more than the dogma that you can’t get
laid.
It’s also the dogma that because you can’t
get laid, you can never be happy.
So what we have on our hands here is more
than a bunch of angry Internet misogynists.
It’s, at worst, a kind of a death cult,
complete with an eternal hell and an omnipotent enemy.
And it’s not surprising that that state
of mind leads a few of them to conclude that
since triumph is impossible, why not try revenge?
Third Base: Tinder is Garbage
I know I said I wasn’t gonna sympathize
with incels, and I know they don’t want
my sympathy anyway, and I know it's bad praxis to sympathize with the devil—
but on some level I can’t help it.
The Internet is for introverts, so I’m sure
a lot of people watching this feel the same way.
I bet some of you have been this guy.
I’ve been this guy.
So look, I’m gonna tell you something I’ve
never really come out about on this channel,
so this is like a really vulnerable moment
for me, but I used to live as a man.
And I’m not proud of that but I’m ready
to move on if you’re ready to forgive.
I’m in the unusual situation of being a
woman who dates men who used to be
a man who dates women.
What kind of fucked up shit is that?
Is that even allowed?
Alright calm down lesbian stans I’m still
attracted to women, and those who lieth betwixt,
cats, the inherent eroticism of the sea.
[Mendelssohn, Hebrides Overture]
[V.O] Mmmm yeah.
Don’t you just wanna get in there.
Take me mommy!
But I have been on a heterosexual kick lately.
- I gotta get my hetero on!
- What I’m getting at is I’ve used Tinder
both as a man seeking women, and as a woman
seeking men.
And I think I that gives me some relevant experiences.
When you’re a man the strategy is you’ve
gotta send a lot of messages because women
get a lot of messages, and then you’ve just
gotta try to be less of an ogre than the other fuckboys.
Whereas if you’re a woman, you get to lie
recumbent on your chaise longue
and receive the inquiries.
Let’s see how we’re doing here.
How many men have liked me on Tinder?
I’m paying $30 for this information so this
better be good.
I have 2500 likes.
That’s a lot of Baltimorean men who swiped
right on a tran.
What a divine city!
[Game show music]
Awww that’s so nice of them to be interested
in me.
Let’s see what kind of messages I got.
"DICK OR NO DICK?"
"PRE-OP OR POST-OP?"
"DID YOU CUT YOUR DICK OFF?"
Oh my god.
I’m gonna cut it off, okay? Jesus.
I will let you smash my pussy so so hard, if
you just be patient.
it’s a whole process.
- That’s not a pussy, that’s a fuck hole.
You’ll never know what it means to squeeze
life out of your sacred passage.
- Well, that’s true.
I’m not squeezing any life out unless something
goes very seriously wrong.
And I assure you that none of the passages
I have down there ever have been or ever will
be sacred.
Abigail, leave my fuck hole out of this.
When I first started using this app I was
messaging a guy who seemed super chill, he
was gonna take me to a concert, and I was
like that seems like a lot for a first date
but okay I’ll try it.
15 minutes after we agreed to that he sends me a message.
“What color panties are you wearing?
"I would love to smell them.”
...Can we get coffee first?
The hell of it is, I probably would’ve let
him smell my panties.
But this is a thing you bring up on the third
fuck.
You don’t open with panty sniffing.
Like the only point of in-app messaging is
for me to figure out if you’re gonna murder
me, and you’re already fucking it up.
So this is the experience of women on Tinder.
We’re drowning in dick and most of it is
terrible.
Not all, I do have some very sweet messages, and
I haven’t used this app in a couple months,
so if I didn’t respond to you or if we didn’t
match, it’s not because I rejected you,
it's because I don't like the app.
People screenshot my profile and post it online,
and they call me contrapoints in app,
like—
I’m just too famous for this shit.
My life is hard.
So girls, we do a lot of complaining about
the firing squad of bad dicks that’s constantly
pointed at us on dating apps.
But how would you feel if instead of that
you were just getting radio silence like the incels get?
I can’t speak for other women, but personally,
I prefer the firing squad of dicks.
You know, at least these pricks care enough about my
pussy to be an asshole about my dick.
I feel sorry for men on dating apps I really
do.
They have to deal with a lot of rejection,
and that must be difficult.
And these apps are especially brutal to people
who aren’t photogenic.
If you’re meeting people at a bar or a party,
you might strike up a conversation with someone
you’re not initially physically attracted
to.
But then maybe they’re super funny, or charming,
or maybe they’re attracted to me—and
that’s an attractive quality in another
person that they appreciate how beautiful I am.
But on Tinder, you’re just browsing a catalog
of faces, and gatekeeping who even
gets to talk to you in the first place.
Red-pillers have a really gross way of talking
about dating in terms of “sexual market
value” but like, dating kind of is a marketplace,
or at least you can analyze it like one.
And our culture is so visual, and these apps
are so picture-centered that bone structure,
like, it’s not the only thing that matters,
but it matters a great deal.
And this is where I do have sympathy for the
incels, because as a trans woman I know what
it’s like to obsess over millimeters of
bone.
I had to interrupt work on this video to go
to a consultation for facial feminization
surgery so that I can going to pay luxury
car amounts of money to shave off a few millimeters
of bone here and there because it must needs
be remarked that the skull of the female exhibiteth
a brow ridge less pronounced.
I mean I’m just as obsessed with bone structure
as the goddamn incels, because I think certain
parts of my face make me look like a man,
and I worry about it every day.
We’re all obsessed with the bones honey.
We all have bones inside us, we all love touching
bones.
[sensual whispering V.O.] You want to take a
measurement from the supraorbital ridge to
the lambdoid suture, and multiply that figure
by pi to calculate what we call the Chad circumference.
Why is no one talking about the Chad circumference?
4th base:
Just the tip
There’s another way I think my experience
as a trans woman is relevant to the incel
discussion, and that’s that I know delusional
self-loathing when I see it.
I’m far from the first to point out that
the “supreme gentleman” incel mass murderer
Eliot Rodger was, apart from his narcissistic
psychopath personality, an eminently bangable twink.
Now I’m not gonna show you pictures of incels,
but on their forums they do sometimes post
selfie threads.
And you can’t say this on incel forums without
enraging them, but in confidence from one
pretend clinician to another, let me tell
you that the truth about incels is that almost
all of them are completely normal looking guys.
But of course that’s not the feedback they
get from other incels.
The feedback they get is that their chins
are weak, their hair is thin, their skin
is garbage and there’s no hope whatsoever,
no woman will ever love them, they are truecels
with no option but to lie down and rot.
And the interesting thing is, those guys post selfies to those threads knowing
that’s the feedback that they’re gonna
get.
So why?
Why do they do it?
Well, I’ll tell you a little story.
There is a website on the Internet called
4chan.org that has a board called LGBT.
A few years ago this was used mainly by the
25 gay men who actually like Milo Yiannopoulos,
but recently it’s used mostly by “men”
who are entertaining the notion of becoming
women, and by early transition trans women.
So the board is jokingly called TTTT.
Now I’ve recently moved beyond that first
stage of my transition, but the memory
is still fresh, and let me tell you, it is a painful,
awkward, humiliating stage of life.
So the trans women of TTTT are tragic, they’re
basically still in man mode, which is why
they’re using 4chan, and I bring them up
because they remind me a lot of incels.
For incels the core frustration is that they
can’t get laid.
For TTTT it’s that they can’t pass as
female.
Both groups post selfies knowing they’re
going to get brutal unconstructive feedback.
And both groups have a weird vocabulary with
which to express their anxieties.
For instance on TTTT a major piece of jargon
is hon, a slur used by trans women for other
trans women, which basically means that you
look like a man in a dress, which is what
every trans woman is afraid of.
And there’s another commonality with incels
too, with all bigots and self-loathers, which
if you’ve been paying attention, you’ve
already guessed.
-[V.O] “You will never be seen as a
woman because of your head size.
"Have all the surgeries in the world, your
massive man noggin will stay the same.”
“lel, this freak thinks he has very soft
facial features.
"His head is fucking huge, lel and the hons
on reddit are hugboxing him and telling him
"that there are women with big heads.
"No, there aren’t. 
There aren’t fucking women with heads as
big as that and ffs won’t change shit.
"You might as well repress.
"You transition with a man’s head.
"You will be clocked, you will be looked at
as a freak, you will never be seen as a legit woman.  100%”
“THIS is why I am not transitioning.
"Thank you Skull-people for showing me the
way and that no matter what I do I will always
"be a manly man skull-wise.
"You saved me the embarrassment of being a
literal big-headed man in a dress."
- 'Tis evident the cranial vault of the autogynephile
be much more voluminous and the facial plane wider—
- It always comes back to the skulls.
Every time.
The other interesting thing about TTTT is
I used to get posted there a lot.
For a while I had some stans on the board
who basically viewed me as inspiration.
Yikes.
Because of course that kind of post is frowned
upon.
If I’m not looked at as a big-skulled manly
freak, if my transition is going well,
that means that some of their transitions
might go well too, and that is an unacceptable
conclusion for a community founded on self-loathing
and hopelessness.
So it was necessary for the rest of the board
to explain why I didn’t
pass, why I would never pass, and why anyone
who looked less good than me shouldn’t even
fucking think about it.
They shouldn’t transition at all,
they should just repress, they should lie
down and rot.
And I used to read this stuff all the time.
Like I would specifically seek out threads about
me.
Which might seem strange considering I had
hundreds of fans telling me I was a gorgeous
goddess every day.
So why did I turn away from that to intentionally
seek out this dismal den of hons talking about
how my giant hon skull is clockable at a thousand
paces, and my voice sounds like a ridiculous
muppet falsetto hybrid of Mickey Mouse and
Winnie the Pooh?
Well basically there was part of my brain
that just simply refused to believe it when people
told me I was gorgeous.
And for semi-plausible reasons.
A lot of trans people on the internet tell other trans
people they look gorgeous no matter what they look like.
That’s where the word "hon" comes from.
You look great hon.
So what TTTT is saying about reddit hugboxing
is true to some extent.
There is a kind of a priori and dogmatic flattery
that prevails in some trans spaces.
So I came to regard all compliments as “everyone
is beautiful,” politically correct cuckoldry.
And there would be this thrill of going to
TTTT and reading other people saying what
my deepest anxieties told me was really true.
And that was always painful but there was
a kind of pleasure too.
There was a rush.
It’s exciting to burst out of the politically
correct bubble and say what you’re really
thinking: that personality doesn’t matter
because big-skulled Chads get all the girls,
that ContraPoints is a big-skulled hon with
a voice like nails on a chalkboard.
And at first I justified the habit by telling
myself I was just doing research.
I have to keep tabs on what the bigots are
saying, that’s simply my job.
But soon I realized it wasn’t just research,
and it was infecting me away from the computer.
This ridiculous vocabulary—hons, AGP—was
popping up in my head at unexpected times.
It was really starting to color how I thought
about myself, and worse, it was starting
to infect how I thought about other trans
women.
And that’s the moment I realized I need
to stop looking at this stuff right now or
I’m going to become a monster, and once
that happens it’s going to be very difficult to fix.
This is exactly how the incel blackpill works.
There’s something infectious about these
vocabularies.
Like on the days I’ve been working on this
video, I’ll go out at night and these words
just involuntarily show up in my thoughts.
That bartender is such a Chad, he’s totally
height mogging that tiny cuck.
And the tragic thing is some incels don’t
realize what this is doing to their minds
until it’s too late.
- [V.O.] “Let’s face it; blackpills
are sui fuel, and a lot of us can’t handle them.
"I gleefully indulged in this subreddit the
moment I discovered it, since I loved uncovering
"secrets that society had been hiding from
me, but it has affected my mental health in
"a bad way.
"I made my first call to the suicide hotline
a few weeks ago, and I’ve never needed to
"do that before.
"I could always talk myself out of it through
logic, but my mind is ruined now.”
- This is a form of what psychologists are calling
digital self-harm, prototypically
teens who leave themselves abusive
comments from sock-puppet accounts.
But the more sophisticated adult version involves
intentionally seeking out abusive and disparaging
comments about yourself made by other people.
I have a long history of doing this, intentionally
looking for abusive comments, especially ones
that cut to the core of my deepest insecurities
and fears.
Why?
I don’t know.
Why do people cut themselves?
Part of it is what we could call masochistic
epistemology: whatever hurts is true.
I’ve recently gotten much better about
this.
I haven’t been to any of the worst places
in a couple months,
and my mental health is much improved.
So, incels.
I’m not going to respond to your worldview
like its an intellectual position worthy of rational debate.
Because these ideas and arguments, you’re
not using them the way rational people use arguments.
You’re using them as razor blades to abuse
yourselves.
And I know because I’ve done the exact same
thing.
The incel worldview is catastrophizing.
It’s an anxious death spiral.
And the solution to that has to be therapeutic,
not logical.
A lot of you are lonely.
You’ve been bullied and neglected.
