- [Operator] 911, what are you reporting?
- [Caller] Uh, there's someone or some kind of creature prancing around out here.
- Okay, is it a person an animal or —
- I can't tell. It looks like a woman but she's about six foot tall, big man hands.
- I'm sorry, you're calling to report a tall woman with man hands?
- Well, she's covered in butterflies. And she has giant wings."
- I'm sorry, what?
- Oh, and she talks like a f****t
- Ma'am.
[shimmering noises]
- Out of this wood do not desire to go: Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so that thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
[Mendelssohn, "A Midsummer Night's Dream Overture, Allegro di molto"]
[more shimmering noises]
Hail mortals! I come to thee from my fairy grove to bring thee tidings of great woe.
Western culture is being destroyed by cucks
and by gender-bending, intoxication and sodomy. You know, things that have never happened in Europe.
[Mendelssohn, "A Midsummer Night's Dream Overture, Allegro di molto"]
There's a lot of people talking lately about "the West" and "Western culture" and "Western civilization"
But what do those words even mean?
I guess the mature and responsible thing to do would be a simple
educational video to edify the public.
Fuck that.
The people demand blood. And I'm thirsty for blood.
And by blood, I mean dick.
And by dick, I mean corndogs. And by corndogs, I mean 16 of them over the course of an evening.
And by evening, I mean morning. And by morning, I mean between 8 o'clock and 8:15.
and by corndogs — [whispering] — I mean dick.
Who's up first?
Well, angry white guy YouTube is usually talking about Western culture, and it's been awhile since I've done a video response, so
let's see what's going on in that part of the Internet.
- Magog is here, baby doll!
[screaming]
I wanna die!
[screaming]
That,
is a man!
- Wow, I've never done a video response to such a powerful wizard.
- The second and third clues are Elsa's magical powers,
and the song "Let It Go". Both of these clues have to do with coming out.
- Wrong. A magic power is the conflict of the plot and her letting it go
is just her realizing her true potential,
and her ability to conquer and rule her kingdom.
She will destroy her enemies and raze their castles to the ground.
The song "Let It Go" is basically,
"Fuck this shit. I'm conquering everyone.'"
- So, just to be clear
this- this is a grown man who has dressed himself in the garb of a sorcerer to shout about a
YouTube channel for preschoolers.
It almost feels like punching down at this point.
At least the Golden One was masc4masc.
Who can I punch up at?
Blegh. I don't like talking about punching.
It makes me feel like one of those people who talks about punching TERFs.
I would never a punch a TERF.
[shimmering noises] My hands are too feminine and my fingers are tired.
Someone massage them.
Who can I claw up at?
- The fundamental assumptions of Western civilization are valid.
How about that?
- Dad! Stop? Ugh. Get out of my life!
In my video about Jordan Peterson, I talked about how he posits a struggle
between "the West" and "postmodern neo-Marxism".
I argued that "pomo nomo" is a label that includes a bunch of incompatible ideas
None of which are in any sense non-Western.
Unless of course you equate the West with white people and Marxism with the Jews,
which, surely no one involved in this conversation is doing, riiight?
[failure sound effect]
[whispering] I'm guessing he wasn't a fan of the bath scene.
In this video, I want to look a little bit closer at the whole concept of the West and the people who claim to defend it
[schwing]
Wow daddy. Nice... sword. Goddamn it, we're gonna need to aim even higher.
Ladies, gentlemen, and beyond, I give you:
[exasperated sigh]
The President of the United States of America,
big dick special big boy Donald Trump.
- Just as Poland could not be broken,
I declare today for the world to hear that
the West will never ever
be broken.
Our values will prevail, our people will thrive, and our civilization
will triumph.
[scary violin noises]
- So we've got the most powerful fuck boy on the planet prattling on about the battle for the survival of Western civilization.
So I suppose we should probably figure out what that's supposed to mean.
Which is too bad because that's gonna require a lot of thinking, and I don't feel like thinking because my brain is tired.
Someone massage it.
And soon,
mechanically,
dispirited after a dreary day with the prospect of a depressing morrow,
I raised to my lips a spoonful of the tea in which I had soaked a morsel of the corndog.
No sooner had the warm liquid mixed with the dog touched my palate, then a shudder ran through me and I stopped,
intent upon the extraordinary thing that was happening to me. An exquisite pleasure had invaded my senses,
something isolated, detached, with no suggestion of its origin.
And at once the vicissitudes of life had become indifferent to me, its disasters innocuous, its brevity illusory -
This new sensation having had on me the effect which a love has, of - [sudden] post-preambulatory banter.
Whether you're in fashy YouTube, or pomo nomo acadomono,
It's common to take for granted that there is a historically continuous, clearly defined thing
called "Western civilization" that starts in ancient Athens
and flourishes in our own era of enlightened philosopher kings.
Announcer: [screaming] "Donald Trump! Donald Trump!"
But this is really just a story constructed retrospectively by modern people for particular purposes.
It's like an origin myth. In an article titled,
"There is no such thing as Western civilization," the philosopher Kwame Anthony Appiah points out that for the ancient Greek historian Herodotus,
there was no such thing as "the West." The world was divided into three continents he called
Europe, Asia, and Libya. Herodotus had no notion that these three continents
corresponded to different types of people, and he never referred to any group of people called "European."
In fact,
he was much more familiar with Egypt and Persia, in which he traveled, than with the faraway and foreign people of Northern Europe.
So the idea of the West has to be more recent than that.
Really there is no one idea of "the West," which is an umbrella term that includes a lot of discontinuous cultures and contradictory ideas.
According to me, there are six different concepts often invoked under the heading of "the West." Let's talk about them now.
Concept 1: Christendom and "Judeo-Christian Values"
In the year 732, a soldier named Charles Martel led Frankish forces to victory at the Battle of Tours
against the Islamic forces that had advanced from Spain into what is now France
effectively halting the spread of the Umayyad Caliphate into Western Europe.
According to Appiah, the first recorded use of the Latin term 'Europenses' or Europeans dates from 754,
and describes the victors of the Battle of Tours
distinguishing Christians from Muslims.
In the late Middle Ages, the concept of Christendom appeared,
and was used to distinguish the Christian world from the Islamic world and from paganism.
This idea of Christendom is arguably the earliest precursor to the modern concept of the West.
Notice that the term itself posits an us-versus-them dichotomy, where Christians are the 'us' and
Muslims are the 'them.' The Christian inheritance is still invoked today by defenders of the West like Lil' Benny and Professor Studied-the-Blade,
often under the heading of
[The Hallelujah chorus of Handel's Messiah plays] "Judeo-Christian Values"
a term usually used to falsely imply that
contemporary moral norms derived from such a generic, parochial, and incomplete document as the Ten Commandments,
as if every major civilization didn't have laws against murder,
as if the prohibition of graven images has any contemporary influence whatsoever,
as if it isn't an embarrassment that there are four laws protecting snowflake Yahweh's easily-triggered ego,
and none condemning slavery and rape. And what if I LIKE it when my neighbor covets my ass??
Bible jokes!
The other main use of "Judeo-Christian values"
is as a bludgeon against single parents and the queers.
Speaking of which, what exactly are the family values we inherit from Christendom? Two kids and a dog, just like the Bible says?
Well, no.
Polygyny is specifically acknowledged in the Old Testament and not forbidden in either Testament.
Even in the beginning,
Eve couldn't keep her hands away from strange serpents (and who can blame her) and Joseph was a massive cuck who raised another man's child.
But it's cool,
he was into that.
In the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church gradually enforced the one-man-and-one-woman view of marriage,
although in formerly pagan lands,
this idea was slow to take hold.
Charles Martel's grandson Charlemagne had 18 kids by at least 10 wives and concubines,
because he was a proud son of the North,
100% natty and Alpha as fuck.
I'm sorry.
I - I just can't stop. The Golden One... his soul and mine are intermingled,
probably because we both played twelve hundred hours of Age of Empires in 1999, and then something went terribly wrong:
Fuckin' 9/11. It used to be such an innocent decision, choosing to play as the Franks or the Saracens,
then it became this huge civilizational struggle, and that's why this guy is a fascist and I grew up to be a woman.
Thanks a lot, Osama.
Being transgender is so weird. Like, you have these childhood memories that are just totally discordant with your adult gender identity.
Like, how do you even deal with that? Well, here's how: you bond with straight guys over your shared Age of Empires nostalgia,
and then you fuck them.
I'M NOT LIKE OTHER GIRLS
Wololo [a distorted version of "FLORAL SHOPPE" plays:
Concept 2: Enlightenment Values
So in 1517, an annoying social justice warrior named Martin Luther nails his list of whiney
complaints to the door of the church in Wittenberg. That kicks off a century or so of brutal violence between Catholics and Protestants.
That eventually chills out, but then the 18th century rolls around and shit's just fucking crazy.
There are various fops and dandies and macaronis
getting wired out of their heads at coffee houses and babbling about enlightenment like the beatnik trash they are.
Then 300 years later, a bunch of drink-sodden fedora tippers appointed themselves intellectual descendants of Voltaire,
before sinking into sweeping sexual harassment allegations under the rug
and making fifty-five consecutive YouTube videos about how Anita Sarkeesian is destroying video games.
That's not what they were discussing at the Parisian salon.
This is all very embarrassing, but still, some of these enlightenment values —
science, liberty, skepticism about dogma —
these are basically good ideas, and they're part of the amalgamation we call "the West,"
but it's important to keep in mind that these ideas are not "Judeo-Christian".
In fact, they're specifically opposed to that way of thinking.
So the sum of what we now think of as "the West" actually contains major contradictions,
because the history of the West is a history of change and revolution.
So when a new movement comes along, like, for instance, a bunch of buzzkill sad sacks pointing out that
actually, our society is still pretty terrible to women, people of color, and gender and sexual minorities
it might not be the smartest thing to just dismiss it as some kind of sinister postmodern neo-Marxist cuckoldry.
It could be the next reformation in a history marked by a series of reformations.
If there are any historians watching this, please call it the SJW Reformation.
Think about the Protestant Reformation.
At the time, that probably seemed like a civilizational threat to the Holy Roman Empire, and it kind of was.
But in retrospect,
we see the Reformation as just as important a moment in Western culture as the medieval period that preceded it.
But today's counter-reformation, made up of people like Orangie Smalls and Dr. Clean-Your-Room
(ummm)
insist on pretending the current reformation is some kind of alien threat.
And as for the counter-counter-reformation, well,
that's what you pay a trashy tran to do.
Concept 3: Western Culture
The idea of "the West" has its roots in the medieval schism between the Western Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church.
But in its contemporary sense, the idea of "Western culture" didn't really exist until
the imperialist era of the late 19th and early 20th centuries
when it was popularized in part by Oswald Spengler's 1918 book, 'The Decline of the West',
an important influence on Nazi ideology. As long as people have been talking about "Western culture",
they've been worried about its alleged decline and degeneration
as I've discussed in several earlier videos which I encourage you not to watch.
But the idea of Western culture was influential well beyond the Third Reich.
At the height of European imperialism, the idea of a superior high culture of the West
was a convenient excuse to plunder and exploit the mysterious Orient.
And even though we've swept the more overtly supremacist rhetoric under the rug,
the idea of Western culture is still a foundational concept in our schools and universities
where you have to take courses like History of Western Civilization or Western Literature
that you didn't actually do any of the readings for because you were too busy crouching in the bushes outside the Dean's office
vomiting up a couple pints of Malibu.
The consequence of this Western culture education
is that we now all have this sense that we belong to a continuous civilization whose crowning achievements
are the Ten Commandments,
Jesus-fuckin'-Christ,
Athenian pederasts,
cathedrals,
Mozart,
human rights,
science,
and iPhones.
But the reality is, this is an essentialist conglomeration of a history that's much more nonlinear than we often think.
We in the West claim to be the inheritors of the ancient traditions of Aristotle and Abraham,
but the Islamic world is entitled to just the same claim.
St. Thomas Aquinas, one of the most powerful Catholic sorcerers,
is largely responsible for introducing Aristotle to Christian universities
but he never would have encountered Aristotle in the first place had not ancient Greek philosophy
been translated and commentated by Islamic scholars like Ibn Rushd.
So the origins of Western culture aren't really unique to us at all. And the stuff that is unique is just a mess of contradictions.
On the one hand you have Judeo-Christian values, and on the other hand
you have degenerates like William Shakespeare who wrote plays for men to dress up as fairy queens and make out with each other.
[shimmer noises] Which, for the record, is disgusting, and I condemn it, and I'll have no part in it.
Cause if you didn't know, in Shakespeare times, boys in drag played female parts.
I wish I had female parts.
Working on it.
Concept 4: The Free World
From 1941 to 1945, Franklin Roosevelt's Vice President was Henry Wallace, an agricultural scientist from Iowa
whom Democratic Party officials despised for being what we'd now call a Democratic Socialist.
Wallace later ran for president in 1948 as a third party candidate on a platform of universal health care,
anti-segregation, and opposition to the Cold War. During the campaign, Wallace was widely mocked in the press
for his spiritualism, his refusal to disavow the Communist Party's endorsement, and what TIME Magazine called
"his assault on the south," that is, his quote "ostentatious ride through cities and towns with his Negro secretary beside him",
for which he was pelted with tomatoes and eggs.
The poor, naive Wallace commented, "There is something so unlovely about hate when you see it distorting the human face."
Well, get used to it buddy. This is America.
Am I lecturing someone from 1948 about how bigoted this country is?
This is fine.
Wallace received only 2.4 percent of the popular vote in the 1948 election
and he's now best remembered for his 1942 speech titled, "The Century of the Common Man",
in which he contrasted what he called the "slave world" of fascists with the free world,
which he described as an incomplete and ongoing international People's Revolution.
- [Narrator] "No Nazi counter-revolution will stop it;
"the common man will smoke the Hitler stooges out into the open in the United States, in Latin America, and in India.
"He will destroy their influence. No Lavals, no Mussolinis, will be tolerated in a free world."
- Wallace had an especially left-wing take on it,
but it was common during World War II, when the phrase "the free world" first entered common parlance,
to include all the countries opposing the Axis powers,
including the dirty Reds.
After the war, the phrase "The Free World" remained common in American politics.
But the meaning shifted. Instead of referring to the international alliance against fascism,
it referred to the capitalist West, as opposed to the communist East.
The idea of the free Capitalist West
is still an important ingredient in this jumbled concept we call Western civilization.
So when Lobster Dad says there's a struggle between Marxism and the West, it seems at first like
he's just stuck in the 1980s or something.
Doesn't he know there's no more Eastern Bloc?
Dad?
What year do you think it is? Are you at war in your head with the goddamn Ruskies?
[whispering] They're on your side now, remember?
The truth is, he's just using the term Neo-Marxism to invoke Red Scare sentiment in opposition to the SJW Reformation.
But the point I'm trying to make is that the West is a concept, or rather several contradictory concepts,
that are always posited in particular political circumstances as one side of an us-versus-them opposition.
Whether it's the Christian West versus the infidels, the Enlightenment West versus Islam,
the cultured West versus the colonized savages, the capitalist West versus the communist East,
or the white European West versus the Jewish Cultural Marxist plot to cuck the sons of the North
by besmirching the purity of their fair maidens
and inundating their countries with a barbarous horde of Third World migrants.
I guess I have to say something about that, huh.
Concept 5: Blood and Soil
If you ask leading Nazi social media influencer Richard Spencer what he thinks the West is,
he'll tell you that it's a cultural, geographic, and genetic inheritance bequeathed to European people by their fair-skinned ancestors.
To Spencer, the idea that a person of Asian or African descent could be part of the West is ridiculous,
because for Spencer, to be Western is to be white.
Now the thing about that is, as an analysis of the common usage of the term "the West," it's not even wrong.
Consider Latin America, where the main languages spoken are Spanish, Portuguese, and French, where the majority religion is Roman Catholicism.
Why is this region generally not regarded as part of the West? Why are immigrants from this region demonized as alien intruders?
Well, because its people have too much melanin to join the club.
Or, to be more accurate, the flexible and historically variant concepts of whiteness and the West
have been constructed so as to exclude them.
And I've already spent half my YouTube career on delirious gay screeching about Nazis
so I don't want to do more of that now.
But suffice to say, the association between whiteness and the West
is always lurking beneath the surface
and when whiteness rears its head proudly, the result is the ugliest crimes our civilization is capable of.
As I'm making this video, the machinery of the middle stages of those crimes is up and running yet again,
thanks to a refugee crisis in Europe and a racist demagogue in the United States.
And once more both continents are dotted with barbed wire, refugee ghettos,
and internment camps full of children torn from parents.
Concept 6: The Evil West
"The West" in many ways is an inherently supremacist concept.
It's thought to be more civilized, more holy, and more cultured than the non-West.
But there are some ridiculous college professors who adopt this story wholesale, but flip it on its head.
According to them, the West is not uniquely civilized, but uniquely uncivilized, cruel, imperialistic, racist, and genocidal.
But this just perpetuates the same essentializing error.
Europeans aren't inherently more evil any more than they're inherently more civilized.
If capitalist imperialism had burst out of Africa 400 years ago, the result would have been just as brutal.
So instead of vilifying the West,
I think we should get rid of the concept altogether,
adopt a more cosmopolitan understanding of ourselves,
and acknowledge that the world is too complicated to reduce to simple us-and-them binaries.
Which is not to say that we have to get rid of Aristotle and classical music and the Cheesecake Factory.
We can still keep all that shit while eliminating the propaganda and injustice that surrounds it.
Coda
My mind is a predator that preys upon itself.
WHAT IF TRAPS ARE GAY
WHAT IF NO ONE CAN EVER LOVE YOU
WHAT IF HAPPINESS IS IMPOSSIBLE
WHAT IF EVERYONE WHO COMPLIMENTS ME IS LYING
SO THEY CAN LAUGH AT ME LATER WHEN I DELUSIONALLY FEEL GOOD ABOUT MYSELF -
WHAT IF WHEN YOU DIE YOU STAY CONSCIOUS AND THEN YOU JUST ARE -
WHAT IF I'M STANDING IN AN AWKWARD WAY AND IT LOOKS WEIRD
WHAT IF BLANCHARD IS RIGHT
WHAT ARE THESE HORRIBLE GODDAMN NOISES COMING OUT OF MY MOUTH
Sometimes you just need a break from your own brain
and music is really great for that.
I've always liked classical music.
When I listen to Mozart or Mendelssohn or even an amateur like Satie,
my mind is lifted to a higher plateau
and I don't care what civilization the composer came from or whether he was a bigot or a sexist,
and I don't want to know because I NEED this.
I need this feeling that makes me just want to
take a big
[bleep]
inside of my balls
[bleeeeeep]
And I can fit two at once!
[food porn continues to be bleeped out]
So, okay, fine, he has the head of an ass, but there's certain advantages to that. That's all I'm saying.
[Mozart, "Laudate dominum, K. 339"]
Wololo
