Okay, listening to everybody talking about ban, yes, it was actually incredibly fucking triggering because holy fucking shit
I'm think that like eighty percent of what we said
We're just blatantly false. And then the other fifteen percent of likely related vices trigger the fuck out of me
I'll try to cover
I'll try to cover all the bases here. Okay, so
Let's get the first meme out of the way
Okay, so why was a band so I don't know what the actual reason for my band was
In terms of what wait more I was given two reasons for our was band
The first thing was because I called the one dude a bad word
I said the f am I I didn't even know if I'm allowed to say without getting banned on twitch on another fuckin platform
But I said that I said the F word and called him a retard or ever
Apparently that was bad
But they also clip the thing where I said when I was talking to my mom as like, holy shit
Like maybe they should fucking shoot Cubans or whatever that word swimming over to the US who some shit like my mom wants to do
To Mexicans or some shit like that. Apparently that got clipped in that and they those two things of those two things
I don't know which one was worse or which one weighed more heavily into it
I've been I've heard from two separate people now that
People in twitch have said that the F word didn't actually matter that much and it was more the Cuban thing. I don't know
If that is true
It kind of makes me want to come back and say that black people aren't allowed to say the n-word anymore ever
Cuz I don't know that's just that's pretty fucking annoying
but I
Don't know whatever maybe I don't not wide enough to be Cuban or not brown enough to be Cuban or whatever or I'm not allowed
To make fun of my I have no idea. That's just like
on a line of level is that just like really fucking bothers me but um that
Something I will talk about later. I kinda want to move most of my political content to YouTube and off of twitch
I don't feel comfortable having political conversations on twitch right now because I feel like
I
Feel like
I don't know. I just feel like they can pull the trigger on a lot of random shit and it's really hard like
when I'm talking about
What I'm talking about like political issues that involve literally like deporting or killing Hispanic people
it's very hard for me to think that like I
Can't say something that might accidentally cross the line like this. The severity of the subject matter I'm dealing with is pretty extreme and
Yeah, I don't know that's just I'm just not really comfortable doing that so I might move I might do like
fuck I hate the thing about it this way, but like maybe two streams a day where I
Start on YouTube and we do political stuff and then I move to twitch and I try to talk about political stuff on Twitch
mostly anymore
Because yeah, I don't know it's just really really really not good I
Don't think twitch will ban me off of off off platform harassment
I'll have another conversation with my partner conduct pretty soon in order to like iron out
100% what's a lot or what's not a lot?
But I don't think twitch would ban me off platform for stuff like this
and unless I was literally like going full idiot like
the
Australian dude that was literally calling a black girl the n-word or saying like right next to some shit like
That anything for views like that guy
Can you do a stream on twitch in YouTube if you aren't doing gaming related shit I might be able to I'm not sure I
Don't I don't know Grady Co citizen I don't really care to discuss it
How often do you get warnings from twitch that one set of bands for more moderate feedback very very rarely
I've gotten one warning in the past six months and it was because a bad donation to slip through where I think somebody tried to
Say the n-word or whatever. That's why I slipped through the the incredibly extreme
swear filter on my
Like the super extreme swear filter on my donation thing
Yeah because of that because of that one in the Kinte that was like three or four months ago
but that's the only winning I've gotten
Oh, yeah, so, I'm sorry to go through some of the memes that get passed around that aren't true
This wasn't an escalated ban at all
There was no people came seem to think that like, oh well
He got a one-week ban than or he got like a 3-day ban than a seven-day bin and now he got a 30-day ban
The probation period for streamers. I I believe this is public if it's not it should be
The probation period for streamers from what I've been told is ninety days
so as long as you go 90 days without any infractions
You're more or less reset so I was like a full three months. My last ban was like six months ago
So I was like a full like three months over my probation period this ban was an instant 30-day ban
Period a lot of people. Yeah, I saw in pokies podcast. Holy shit. I wanted to kill myself
I think I can joke about that
when when I was listening to them up talk about it and they were saying like oh, well, this is probably just a
Hot shot and Devon said that probation period stuff does not exist. I don't really care what they say
I'm gonna go by context that I have in twitch over anything that those two say, especially George
Devon I'm pretty sure agrees with almost everything. I'm about to say because we talked about this afterwards but um
Yeah, technically if anything and this seems like a really dumb way to view it and maybe this is a little Stockholm Syndrome syndrome II
Like the way to view it, is that if anything
I'm probably not on Twitch is super shit list because they could perma ban you instantly for what they deem hateful content
It's only because the partnership team is kind of like worked it out that partners don't get insta ban buttons didn't get a 30-day Ben
you could argue that if twitch like really fucking hated me that they would have like insta perma ban my channel, so
So
Yeah, I was also talking to him I talked to my partner dude
I was probably a little bit more upset than I should have been when I talked to him
I didn't blame him or anything. But like I guess I'm I talk to him and I'm trying to find out like, okay
Well, what's a lot or most not a lot because that's still something that it's not that I don't fuckin know
what the fuck the answer to that shadows and um
like he was telling me things that like if I come back like I probably shouldn't be saying things like
Autistic or poor Downey or retarded anymore? Because technically if you um, if
You look at the twitch Terms of Service Center hateful conduct
So this is what I got banned under right hateful contact hateful conduct in any content or activity that promotes encourages and facilitates
discrimination denigration objectification harassment or violence based on race ethnicity
National origin which was probably the Cuban shut religion sex gender generated any sexual orientation. So this would cover like the f-word or whatever
age
disability
That's calling someone a Downey or autistic or whatever. I mean
Falls under hateful conduct as much as anything else, so I have to get rid of it now
We really have to get rid of autistic and retarded are gonna be completely removed from my vocabulary, I guess
Even though yeah
Your point of view is gonna be different than mine on this
I know a lot of people like to point out that a whole bunch of people say shit like this all the time
But yeah
I can't really afford to think of it that way because pointing fingers at other people will never save yourself from a ban
Yeah, I know sodapoppin had a stream title autism yesterday. Literally the entire time
But Indiana doesn't matter whatever I can't do anything about that. So
Actually, hold on I should let me text my twitch to hold on. Actually, let's find out real quick about something
They are just curious if I'm having a
Serious discussion off platform
Involving the use of certain slurs
Well using those in a non
hateful
way
Still get me in trouble on
Twitch I
feel so cooked that I even have to fucking ask this if I am if I was doing a contract with twitch today I either
Wouldn't be a partner or I would renegotiate that those terms out of it. I would never send a contract like this
It's actually been the one
consistent big thing on my streaming career that I've like held to is that I don't let other people tell me how to speak or
Talk and so I don't carry sponsorships and I never sent away my IP to other people
I try not to like sign an exclusivity thing that unless there's a lot of money involved
If these new terms of service existed I would now be a twitch partner definitely not it's so not worth it
not when I not yeah, definitely not but
Instant audio only stream went on the phone screen turns off. Can you renegotiate the contract? Yeah, I can try to
There's a lot of money involved your whole income my whole income isn't which it's a significant portion of it, but
What's your reason for not swapping to youtube?
Prime subs are a huge reason prime subs are tu-tu-tu-tu-tu big I
Would never join the CX Network I'm not going to
That type of content is not something that I would want to make regularly
I don't mind talking to Paul was like a friend or hanging out with him every now and then but like being involved in that
Sort of like reality TV shit show for guys not. I don't enjoy that at all. It's not enjoyable for me. It's not rewarding
It's not fulfilling. It's not fun
Are you tape Abed Stubbs the thing supposedly you can get sponsored buttons, but I don't know how to do that on YouTube
Yeah, I
Don't think I would make it in the RV, I'm pretty sure one of those guys would kill me
I'm pretty sure one of those dudes would kill me
Is your next bin a 100% guaranteed permit or not
So the way that it goes is I've got if I have anything actionable on me in the next 90 days
I'm pretty fucked but I'm pretty confident that that won't happen because
I've got my relationship with my partner wrapped where I can be actively working to make sure that I'd stay within the guidelines
And most things I don't think it'll happen. I mean, like I said if switch really wanted me gone
He probably could have perma banned me for this instance, but they decided not to so
He can just put your stream on his site I don't want Isis viewers, I don't like Paul's viewers
I don't want any of that CX network that viewership is incredibly fucking cancerous. I do not like those people
I don't want them watching me. I'm sorry, but like if you're a nice viewer, you can understand. Holy shit
Would you like to be on the PKA podcast? Yeah, sure. Have they ever wanted me? Yeah, I'd love to
I'll talk about this topic like real quick
But I really don't enjoy doing it because people try to backseat what's going on in my mind when I know what I'm thinking better
Than anybody else and it really really really bothers me
I've been throwing out a lot of fucking perm ads and my cell ready for people to do this shit. It's really obnoxious
Destiny serious. Not a meme question. Do you think he will stop playing league on stream? Seriously not a meme question
I think the risk might be high chance for you to get mad
I had no idea that I could actually catch a ban on twitch for saying that f-word
I've seen people say it
Actually, Moe himself just tweeted like yesterday that he would I think it was even today that he was gonna stop saying that word
So like I know there are people that still actively senate's which I had no idea that I could catch an active band for it
a lot of people are under this delusion that like I literally can't control anything that I say that like
Oh god, like I get so mad at League. I just like I start throwing and bombs and f-bombs out. Not really
I just got really mad
I just said I don't think it's something to get banned for knowing that I can get banned for it. It's really easy
Not to say it
a lot of people seem to not think that that's true probably because a lot of you guys might be 18 or 19 and you
Can't control what you say. I'm not entirely sure or yeah, but um
Yeah, I mean it's pretty easy to for me to not say a certain word
Especially since unless I'm talking privately
I don't really say that much and I don't really have any private conversations anymore because I scream so much anyway, so
Not mow that not mow the yasuo man it was the oh shit. I don't know we were still on the screen it was the
Wait shit
Fuck I don't remember where the picture was. I want to start clicking through these and guessing
It was mo the other csgo guidance here we have a link to the tweet somebody like
So I need a picture of it
You literally got banned for saying a certain word because you couldn't stop yourself from doing it yeah no that's retarded
See you later, buddy. Come back tomorrow
I don't know where most tweet is, but somebody took a screenshot of it a while ago. Oh
Is this actually
This was a tweeted yesterday
I'm going to try and stop saying the word eff
Got under stream is apparently you can get banned for it now and whenever - no I didn't mean it was hateful
so like I'm wondering if this guy was literally saying it like
Yeah
Whatever
You
I
Actually, hold on fuck I
Don't want to be on this I don't want to be on Twitch if like I'm this is like insanely ridiculous. I
Don't want to read his response. I
Would have I would never sign a contract like this ever in my entire life I feel so incredibly cooked right now
I'm not gonna read what he says. I'm stream
I feel like it's rude and I don't want to do anything to get on like twitches bad side. Oh
Can you hear me
Either your mic isn't working on my discord isn't working
It's me. Hang on. Oh, oh, did you hear that? Yeah, okay. I forgot to turn on my
Channel strip. Yeah, do you see that response when I read it real quick, dude. Do I have to leave to a hitch?
Like
Okay, it would like I could be more understanding if I was like a Laker super racist, dude
Whatever, but I'm like, I'm literally my political views. They're so SJW
like I've built my whole politics Brown in the past two years and being like a left-leaning like Pro LGBTQ person like
What that's like that response is insane right? Like holy shit
Yeah, am I not allowed to do politics anywhere like you I would never sign this contract
I would never be a twitch partner if this is like I don't even know if it's worth the eight or nine K month
I make on on the prime subs that's like insane to me dude, like
Mmm, holy shit
So, I think the second part is more important like where where he says that it seems like you could
You could
Put yourself out of this discussion. Yeah, I mean, yeah, yes
I said the way that he phrases it like scares me a lot, right?
Yeah, because he's leaving room for it to be totally suck Wow
Like if it was something if the responses and the lines are like dude, yeah, you can definitely have those conversations
Just make sure you're having them in a responsible way. Then I would be totally cool
But that response makes it sound like especially the first felt like I should never first confirmations really weird
Like I should just play video games and shut the fuck up about everything
Yeah, exactly. Like it is not what dude which is totally 100% fine on I think
I'm gonna type it to you though
Do you think I already gonna move to this one wait you got moved from
Yeah
Why did you move from him? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, so that's not so here
Like I'm typing like an idiot because I'm not like thinking but yeah, that's funny. I mean, yeah
The reason is because like and here's how you do it like
You know because like it feels like to me that
That kind of response is
Just I
Want to say not professional
You know what I mean
Like you're dealing with an issue here. That's really serious to your livelihood in your career. Maybe he's just not aware of that
Maybe he thinks I'm literally I wonder if like in his head
He thinks that I just want to talk about this now to be really edgy
Maybe he has no idea like what my history is do you think?
I don't know because I don't know the context of your first call, but the the way that that response
Kind of like hit me was sort of out of the realm of how twitch should be handling these issues
to be very careful with this right like the
There's a certain expectation
And system for these responses that goes the this should go back and forth between the communications between a partner manager and a partner
So for it for it so for like what's happening?
I feel like the solution I presented is makes a lot of sense also
I
Absolutely think that
You should
Any any negotiation you should have with them should be in person I'm sure of that
Yeah, I should fly to San
Francisco
Yeah, that's their head office
They have a branch in LA. But everyone that you want to talk to yeah
I'm very like I'm a hundred percent on that and and I didn't like think about it yesterday
but when I go back to like when
Like anything that we were doing is CLG or anything like we would always go to SF and it was like a hundred percent better
to be in person and I notice
Very content creating and collaborating people like to see you in person so much more
It means so much more to see somebody in person than it does to talk in an email or whatever
Yeah, just like Anna Shear business sense
There's just so much more that I think can be communicated
In person and and like when it comes down to like we're at a point
With you where like the career like this is like sort of. Oh you're changing. Yeah. Yeah either way
It you can it like my concern right now is you're kind of coming off as like in to them right? Not not intention
I'm not accusing you. There's no innocent. Someone is trying to push the boundary and I'm trying to be as edgy as possible
Yeah, yeah, and then every time you sort of like send a message to them your correspondence is like well
Can I say this? Can I do this?
Can I do this instead of like?
How do I work with you guys to so like that's and again this is their perception. How do I work with you guys to?
To overcome these boundaries so I hear I really I really do try to do that
I don't show you as many we're like so like this is the message that I send like a minute or two ago
like I do try to keep that like somewhat at the forefront or I don't know if you think this is still like a
Little maybe too edgy. I should be a little bit more polite, but
Yeah, what I would do here if you're gonna stay with the same manager is I would try to establish a baseline of what your
content is
And and like and who you are as a broadcaster and then go off of that and so say like, okay
so like this is what I'm
Doing or this is what I've envisioned for my channel. And for what I want to create now. How do we
Center this onto and do this in a way that twitch sees this to be
Acceptable to be on their platform. You know what I mean? Yeah, so so like I think
But I'm also kind of still convinced that you might want to go with the option that I recommended
I also just because the the person that I mentioned that just seems to be like a lot more understanding of things like this
yeah, it might also have a prior understanding of your
Actual content sure. Yeah
Yeah, fuck me dude. It's so scary. I've never like
This has always been like the thing
I've always been like the most critical of other people for being stupid agreeing to is when you license your IP to other people
Exclusively and when you let other people tell you how to act off of their specific thing
This is why I like deliberately never take like restrictive sponsorships or anything like that and the fact that I find myself in this position
somehow that I can't have serious conversations about political or ethical issues here at another platform is so
Incredibly mind-blowing to me. I come to this basic
Yeah
Like everything that I've done in my whole life isn't to avoid this and Here I am
Somehow like and not just and not through any fault of your own, but just do it
Just do the evolution of which is a company. Yeah. Holy shit
It's scary and it's like really bad too. Yeah
Like I'm such a minority of people impacted that it doesn't really matter to them
Like I see their point of view, right?
Like how many people into Achieva disgust like political or ethical issues like 99% of the time anybody wants to have these conversations?
They're doing it to be edgy or like shitty. So it's like
Yeah, but like it's just the off platform shit is what kills me now because like
You know cuz at the beginning of this conversation
before I sent this most of the guy actually tell my stream I was like
I think what I want to do is I'm just gonna totally split live streaming on YouTube and twitch
I'm just gonna do all my politics stuff on YouTube and I'm okay with that all just because then I don't feel like I can
Get in trouble at it. I feel like I'm more free to say what I want to say and whatnot
But now I can't even do that
Yeah, it's like even though I have an old contract that was kind of good because it only nails me on the gaming stuff
So I can still do IRL and in politics off platform. I really can't because if I say certain things I'm still gonna get like
So I'm gonna type something to you, yeah
Create your own CDN my dude Trailways. Your own path is the next big platform
Yeah, I've never ever seen that and we actually had a
How are you not considered an employee at this point I'm you're considered contractors for streaming
Sargon was right. The left are ruining everything and
freedom of speech is under attack pepé liberals get the band to de feels
Okay, stop super chatting me I'm not gonna read this shit okay, or I might but I'm gonna miss a lot of it
What does this button do for 279 Canadian dollars that's like 50 cents American I think
Shortly and what gaming is anythi dollars? Love you
Photos from Elliott nor you G don't guess if I'd always be here for you dissing Bibles thumb then it'd have much money
So YouTube's are profitable for destiny just to piss off twitch
No, fuck don't I don't even know how I get the money that you're donating to me on YouTube action
I'm pretty sure goes to my like YouTube channel, which I end up splitting with Gary, so don't do it
Okay, don't like Gary get a cut of this shit. Alright?
Okay, so that's that's what I was saying
Yeah, I understand okay cool, yeah
There's just not gonna be I mean, I just Karen to you no matter what there's not gonna be any movement on that
And that you'd have to get it through other means but like I think your best bet is the last thing
I'd like
It really sucks. But you're dealing with a situation where they have all the leverage. Yeah, of course
Yeah, and so like a big mixer sponsorship
or all
Mixer or the Facebook shit or whatever. I
Mean you have 8000 viewers on YouTube. You should be talking to them
Yeah, and yeah, I mean for sure well today though
But I'm pretty sure this will taper off to like two or three thousand or maybe hideouts
I'm not sure do you think this is just because of the yeah because of what's going on right now
There's a huge surge of people that are interested in the moment
But it'll taper off to like two or three thousand or like really yes master
Yeah, but I don't I don't know how discovery works and he was a political show
Well, how are people finding you now?
No idea where am I gonna hear from right now where the fuck you guys coming from?
that's like a really interesting question right because like
But that would an account from like the other five cameras and you've only been streaming for an hour
So, how did those people discover you that's like really wrong?
There's somebody posted a live stream fail through that might be it or is it like top?
Everything it every thing that gets posted about me as a top what you what are you talking about?
You know you're talking to I'm sorry. You were on a call with George someone and Dan the guy
Okay, I don't know who those you're talking a destiny now
Okay, obviously, I thought all right the firsthand source, and I might not be a millionaire when I go to Wells Fargo
But when I step into the streaming arena, I'm a millionaire in the eyes of my fans. Alright
Streamers seems like Amazon's paying streamers a ton of money. Oh wait. I have my youtube subs
I just remember that you guys could actually be coming from YouTube. Oh fuck that was so dumb
I forget that I actually have like a real YouTube channel now with my hundred thousand subs and everything
YouTube notifications Oh Mondrian. Oh, hey, what's up, buddy?
Yeah, that's right
I
Forgot about you on YouTube. I saw you live feelsgoodman. Yeah. Oh
Shit, I totally forgot about that actually. Wait, hold on. Well now I'm really curious we're gonna do another straw poll
Where did you come from?
My friend who hates your streams in Lex YouTube channel told me you rely before I know
Oh, no, what if all the youtubers what if all my subs that hate my streams like my YouTube unsub for me now on YouTube
Most as the f-word multiple times five days ago. I know. Oh man, wait, really
How did you
If I listen to another guy saying it am I gonna get Ben
How funny would it be if I listened to another guy?
say it on Twitch and then I get permabanned from twitch for listening to him say but he never even got to see him he
Never even got banned a single time for it. Hold on. I'm gonna be in my strippers that way listen to this because I
know marketing dummy WTF you play
You
Ah
Don't show me this. I don't care. I don't even want to see this. Oh my god
I don't want to see this don't even show me this shit. Don't even show me this shit. I don't want to see it
Okay, we're moving on. Oh
I
Don't care I don't care I don't care
Holy shit dear dad link was like, oh my god. That was so insane. Uh,
Okay, um anyway but like you can't really you can ever think of life like that
You can't let go like well, he did that. Will he do that because you'll never get out of like trouble
Doing shit like that
What is the revenue Delta between being banned from twitch and going to youtubers joint just going to - without being banned from twitch
Between being bad, I mean a Simic
well
We have to we had it's got to be a weighted probability thing because we've got a we've got away our future
Potential earnings at twitch and then augment that with the probability of getting permabanned from switch
She don't think what happened, but who the fuck knows?
If you had a play game right now but not shown extreme do you think it violate the contract?
Yeah, I just can't do gaming content
I mean if I plan to the background it would be okay, but you guys can't see it at all
In the long run you'll make more money on YouTube
Yeah, but like if I go to youtube, I would need like a good the only problem
Is that like the thing is that right now?
There's like subsidized dirty government fake money on Twitch in the form of Amazon Prime subs that I can't really get anywhere else
But unless I got like a contract from YouTube to stream on their platform
Which I don't even think ice has so why would they give me one?
